kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! sight & sound: the cinema of walter murch posted by jason kottke mar 27, 2020 from jon lefkovitz, sight & sound is a feature-length documentary film about the legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch, who edited and did sound design for films like the godfather, apocalypse now, and the conversation. this feature-length documentary, viewed and enjoyed by legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch himself (“the conversation”, “apocalypse now”), was culled by jon lefkovitz from over 50 hours of murch’s lectures, interviews, and commentaries. that’s the whole film embedded above, available online for free. here’s the trailer in case you need some prodding. i haven’t watched the whole film yet, but i’m definitely going to tuck into it in the next few days. see also worldizing — how walter murch brought more immersive sound to film. more about... film school jon lefkovitz movies sight & sound video walter murch ads via carbon quick links, updated constantly "the board game remix kit is a collection of games that you can play using the boards and pieces from games you might already own: trivial pursuit, monopoly, clue and scrabble." now available for free download. yes! this! "a huge research literature shows disaster makes people *more* pro-social. they cooperate. they support each other. they're better than ever." uk prime minister boris johnson has covid-19 a ranking of radiohead's 40 greatest songs. "'i want you to notice when i'm not around,' yorke broods, a perfect lyric he probably hates." six feet of separation, an online youth newspaper started by a group of quarantined kids in san francisco. the contributors ages range from 2 to 19. portrait of a lady on fire premieres on hulu tomorrow. vod in april. one of the best new movies i've seen in the past year. bread baking is on the rise (*ahem*) during the pandemic. yeast and flour are in high demand (my local store has been sold out of yeast for at least a week and a half). epidemiologists have been puzzled at how japan has kept covid-19 at bay even though folks there are mostly going about their normal lives. now their luck may be running out. electricity biscuit! "an emerging consensus points to aggressive tracing of contacts of sick people, much broader testing, targeted quarantines, and new online tracking technology as strategies that would facilitate the easing of social distancing measures." new! an archive of the quick links. you can find them @kottke on twitter too. indoor voices, a quarantine group blog just like the old days posted by aaron cohen mar 27, 2020 a few weeks ago, writer kyle chayka tweeted “i predict a great blogging renaissance,” to which also writer kevin nguyen responded, “i kinda wanna do a weird free-for-all quarantine blog.” then they added other writer bijan stephen and started indoor voices, a group blog which has now grown to about 80 members, all of whom miss what the internet used to be like and happen to be home quite a bit at the moment. (to cement old school credentials, indoor voices is hosted on ancient blogging platform blogspot, the place i got my blogging start in 2004. (out of an abundance of shame, i absolutely will not be linking to this first blog.)) from the indoor voices about page: blogging is not a substitute for direct action. direct action in this case involves staying home. blogging is one thing to do while staying at home. please wash your hands. it’s hard to believe, but there was a time where the internet was just full of casual websites posting random stuff. and you’d go to them maybe even multiple times a day to see if they had posted any new stories. it was something we all did when we were bored at our desks, at our jobs. now there are no more desks. but there are still blogs. there’s no theme, except quarantine. there’s no schedule, except people post every day whenever they want. as you might expect from a group of 80 people, post subjects vary. there are beauty tips, missives to deadwood and steven universe, strategies to get through your pile of new yorkers, and a regularly featured what should you do tonight? i myself have posted about working from home with kids (it’s…fine), what help small businesses need right now, and quarantine, an anthem sung to the tune of dolly parton’s, jolene. (this level of blogging productivity hasn’t been seen by me since 2014.) in a brief interview, cofounder kevin nguyen had this to say about indoor voices: we started indoor voices because we were nostalgic for classic days of blogging, and partly as an inside joke. then we realized that the blogs we missed felt like an inside joke that a small community was in on. so far, we’ve been really thrilled with the creative, chaotic energy that people have been putting forward. it’s writing for writing’s sake, and we’ve enjoyed seeing just how diverse and funny and strange that’s been. probably helps that we’re all slowly going stir crazy. note also, kevin’s first novel, new waves, is finally out. it’s my most anticipated read of the year, but don’t take my word for it. almost every publication that writes about books regularly listed it as anticipated as well. more about... bjian stephen blogging covid-19 kevin nguyen kyle chayak coldplay’s tiny desk concert posted by jason kottke mar 27, 2020 maybe i’m gonna get some guff for this, but i believe that coldplay is an underrated band. oh sure they’re popular, but they are also good, better than their reputation suggests. brian eno doesn’t work with just anyone after all. their recent tiny desk concert at npr bears this out. backed by a fantastic nine-person choir (who previously performed with the band at a prison-reform benefit), coldplay frontman chris martin and guitarist jonny buckland joyously perform a few of their songs (like viva la vida and champion of the world) as well as a rousing cover of prince’s 1999. more about... coldplay music video how to shop safely in a pandemic posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 note: please check the updates below for some important corrections to some of the information in this video. from dr. jeffrey vanwingen md, a video on how to ensure that your grocery shopping experience is as safe as possible and to avoid potential covid-19 infection from plastic and metal surfaces. i’m going to be honest with you: a lot of this seems like overkill (as it should — see the paradox of preparation). however, this is also pretty much what i’ve been doing after grocery shopping for the past 2 weeks because i am a fastidious motherfucker1 with plenty of time to wipe down groceries. if it comes down to a choice between watching 7 more minutes of the mandalorian or wiping down my groceries before putting them in the fridge, i’m gonna wipe them groceries. baby yoda can wait. see also this pdf from crumpton group about how to keep your household free of the outside effects of the covid-19 pandemic. household members should understand that their principal effort should be directed towards isolating the inside of the home from the pandemic effects outside. all physical thresholds of the home will serve as a cordon sanitaire. strive to decontaminate everyone and everything to the best practical degree before entering. many of dr. vanwingen’s recommendations mirror those in the pdf. see also expert guidance on covid-19 and food safety. (thx, meg) update: i have not had a chance to read it yet (was attending to some other things this evening — family, trying to have some normalcy), but i’ve been told that this thread is a good response to the video above. i’ll have a closer look at it tomorrow. update: ok, i’ve read don schaffner’s thread criticizing this video. at least i think this is the video he’s referring to because he never says it outright — which i’ll get to in a minute. (schaffner is a professor in the food science department at rutgers who i linked to the other day in my post on covid-19 and food safety.) as he notes, there are a couple of factual errors and vanwingen does offer some dubious advice, particularly about washing food with soap (which i didn’t take seriously). i do not believe, however, that vanwingen was suggesting that people leave frozen items and perishables in a warm garage for 3 days and that the normal rules of food safety are somehow countermanded by potential coronavirus contamination. if you want to leave that box of cheerios that you don’t need in the car for 3 days, go right ahead. he definitely should have been clearer on that point though. but the bulk of vanwingen’s video was about how to handle your groceries and takeout food coming into your house to minimize the chance of infection. (and as i mentioned, much of it mirrors the advice in this document and in dr. michael lin’s document from a couple of weeks ago — this isn’t just his opinon or my opinion.) if we are to take seriously a) the assumption that anyone could have covid-19 (including yourself & grocery workers) that we are operating under w/r/t to handwashing & keeping a 6-foot distance, b) the preliminary results that suggest that sars-cov-2 can last on some surfaces for days, and c) that person-to-surface-to-person transfer of sars-cov-2 might result in infection (i.e. the reason we are doing all this handwashing and face not-touching), then we should be disinfecting surfaces that other people have been touching recently. right? we should assume that all surfaces are contaminated. this doesn’t seem outlandish, especially when grocery stores are restocking shelves continuously — that bag of chips that you put into your cart may have been placed on the shelf only 30 minutes before. how is disinfecting your oreos package when you get home from the store a bad idea? sure, wash your hands before you eat, but if you have kids, you know how futile that can be sometimes, especially when oreos are involved. so why not just clean the package? ditto with transferring takeout food to new containers and giving it a blast in the microwave to warm it up. schaffner’s stance is that most surfaces aren’t contaminated to a high degree, which is undoubtably true. having watched the video & read schaffner’s advice (and other advice by other experts), where your personal comfort level with making sure the surfaces you and your family come into contact to are disinfected is up to you. ultimately, advice from experts is still advice and you have to figure out whether it works for you. it’s easy to believe you should wash your hands frequently because that’s universal advice. but “you should disinfect surfaces you touch” and “you don’t have to worry too much about disinfecting your grocery packages” are genuinely conflicting bits of advice from well-meaning experts! you’ve gotta use your noggin and make up your own mind, based on your personal idea of risk and safety. it’s gonna land differently with different people. finally, i’m going to get a little cranky here, but i found schaffner’s overall tone in the first few tweets of that thread mocking, ungenerous, and unhelpful. instead of gently offering alternative authoritative advice, he subtweeted (by refusing to link to the video and calling dr. vanwingen not by his name but referring to him as “the video md”) and made fun of vanwingen’s outfit. i know it must be frustrating to see what you perceive as misinformation out there, but we do not need doctor vs doctor battles here. everyone’s just going to get defensive and dig their heels in. </cranky> hey, if you don’t know what you should be doing in a certain situation w/r/t to coronavirus, just ask your most detail-oriented friend. you know, the one who shows up to things on time and is usually a fussy pain in your ass. they’ll have a plan all ready to go and will be happy to share it with you because they’ve been waiting years for some shit like this to happen. now is our time to shine!↩ more about... covid-19 don schaffner food how to jeffrey vanwingen medicine science video stream ken burns’ baseball documentary series for free on pbs posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 it would have been opening day for baseball here in the us. since we’re without the actual thing due to covid-19, ken burns asked pbs to allow people to stream his 18-hour documentary series on baseball from 1994 for free (us & canada). here’s part one: (via open culture) more about... baseball ken burns pbs sports tv video what to do about our collective pandemic grief before it overwhelms us posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 for that discomfort you’re feeling is grief, hbr’s scott berinato interviewed david kessler, who he calls “the world’s foremost expert on grief”, about what we’re collectively feeling as we deal with the covid-19 pandemic. hbr: people are feeling any number of things right now. is it right to call some of what they’re feeling grief? kessler: yes, and we’re feeling a number of different griefs. we feel the world has changed, and it has. we know this is temporary, but it doesn’t feel that way, and we realize things will be different. just as going to the airport is forever different from how it was before 9/11, things will change and this is the point at which they changed. the loss of normalcy; the fear of economic toll; the loss of connection. this is hitting us and we’re grieving. collectively. we are not used to this kind of collective grief in the air. hbr: you said we’re feeling more than one kind of grief? kessler: yes, we’re also feeling anticipatory grief. anticipatory grief is that feeling we get about what the future holds when we’re uncertain. usually it centers on death. we feel it when someone gets a dire diagnosis or when we have the normal thought that we’ll lose a parent someday. anticipatory grief is also more broadly imagined futures. there is a storm coming. there’s something bad out there. with a virus, this kind of grief is so confusing for people. our primitive mind knows something bad is happening, but you can’t see it. this breaks our sense of safety. we’re feeling that loss of safety. i don’t think we’ve collectively lost our sense of general safety like this. individually or as smaller groups, people have felt this. but all together, this is new. we are grieving on a micro and a macro level. and what can we start to do about our grief? understanding the stages of grief is a start. but whenever i talk about the stages of grief, i have to remind people that the stages aren’t linear and may not happen in this order. it’s not a map but it provides some scaffolding for this unknown world. there’s denial, which we say a lot of early on: this virus won’t affect us. there’s anger: you’re making me stay home and taking away my activities. there’s bargaining: okay, if i social distance for two weeks everything will be better, right? there’s sadness: i don’t know when this will end. and finally there’s acceptance. this is happening; i have to figure out how to proceed. acceptance, as you might imagine, is where the power lies. we find control in acceptance. i can wash my hands. i can keep a safe distance. i can learn how to work virtually. kessler recently came out with a new book called finding meaning: the sixth stage of grief. i wrote a bit about grief a couple years back in this post how do you help a grieving friend? one of the odd things about getting older (and hopefully wiser) is that you stop chuckling at cliches and start to acknowledge their deep truths. a recent example of this for me is “the only way out is through”. as devine notes, in this video and her book it’s ok that you’re not ok, there’s no shortcut for dealing with pain…you have to go through it to move past it. see also a collection of resources for dealing with death compiled by chrysanthe last year. (via laura olin) more about... covid-19 david kessler death interviews scott berinato surreal drone tour of a pandemic-emptied san francisco posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 this is a short drone tour of san francisco with the shelter-in-place order in effect — it looks abandoned. fisherman’s wharf, downtown, market street, the haight — i think i saw like 8 people total during the whole video. heartening to see that people are taking shelter-in-place seriously. more about... covid-19 drones san francisco video can america turn our covid-19 failure into some sort of success? posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 from ed yong at the atlantic, a great article on the current state of the pandemic in the united states, what will happen over the next few months, how it will end, and what the aftermath will be. with little room to surge during a crisis, america’s health-care system operates on the assumption that unaffected states can help beleaguered ones in an emergency. that ethic works for localized disasters such as hurricanes or wildfires, but not for a pandemic that is now in all 50 states. cooperation has given way to competition; some worried hospitals have bought out large quantities of supplies, in the way that panicked consumers have bought out toilet paper. partly, that’s because the white house is a ghost town of scientific expertise. a pandemic-preparedness office that was part of the national security council was dissolved in 2018. on january 28, luciana borio, who was part of that team, urged the government to “act now to prevent an american epidemic,” and specifically to work with the private sector to develop fast, easy diagnostic tests. but with the office shuttered, those warnings were published in the wall street journal, rather than spoken into the president’s ear. instead of springing into action, america sat idle. rudderless, blindsided, lethargic, and uncoordinated, america has mishandled the covid-19 crisis to a substantially worse degree than what every health expert i’ve spoken with had feared. “much worse,” said ron klain, who coordinated the u.s. response to the west african ebola outbreak in 2014. “beyond any expectations we had,” said lauren sauer, who works on disaster preparedness at johns hopkins medicine. “as an american, i’m horrified,” said seth berkley, who heads gavi, the vaccine alliance. “the u.s. may end up with the worst outbreak in the industrialized world.” if you’ve been reading obsessively about the pandemic, there’s not a lot new in here, but yong lays the whole situation out very clearly and succinctly (he easily could have gone twice as long). the section on potential after effects was especially interesting: pandemics can also catalyze social change. people, businesses, and institutions have been remarkably quick to adopt or call for practices that they might once have dragged their heels on, including working from home, conference-calling to accommodate people with disabilities, proper sick leave, and flexible child-care arrangements. “this is the first time in my lifetime that i’ve heard someone say, ‘oh, if you’re sick, stay home,’” says adia benton, an anthropologist at northwestern university. perhaps the nation will learn that preparedness isn’t just about masks, vaccines, and tests, but also about fair labor policies and a stable and equal health-care system. perhaps it will appreciate that health-care workers and public-health specialists compose america’s social immune system, and that this system has been suppressed. aspects of america’s identity may need rethinking after covid-19. many of the country’s values have seemed to work against it during the pandemic. its individualism, exceptionalism, and tendency to equate doing whatever you want with an act of resistance meant that when it came time to save lives and stay indoors, some people flocked to bars and clubs. having internalized years of anti-terrorism messaging following 9/11, americans resolved to not live in fear. but sars-cov-2 has no interest in their terror, only their cells. i really hope that betteridge’s law is wrong about that headline i wrote. more about... covid-19 ed yong medicine politics science usa time lapse of a sunflower growing from seed to flower posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 starting from a seed, a sunflower plant grows, flowers…and then wilts. i’ve always thought these kinds of videos were wonderful, but given recent events, they are hitting with an extra poignance. or maybe hope in a strange sort of way? i don’t know what one is supposed to be feeling about anything these days. in this other sunflower time lapse, you can more clearly see the little seed helmets worn by the tiny plants soon after sprouting. cute! more about... time lapse video ikea instructions for covid-19 quarantine posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 instructions for staying at home during the pandemic, courtesy of ikea israel. (thx, caroline) more about... covid-19 ikea iconic art & design reimagined for the social distancing era posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 while it predates the covid-19 pandemic and its accompanying social distancing by several years, josé manuel ballester’s concealed spaces project reimagines iconic works of art without the people in them (like what’s happening to our public spaces right now). no one showed up for leonardo’s last supper: hieronymus bosch’s the garden of earthly delights is perhaps just as delightful without people: and botticelli’s the birth of venus has been rescheduled: ben greenman, andy baio, and paco conde & roberto fernandez have some suggestions for new album covers: designer jure tovrljan redesigned some company logos for these coronavirus times. coca-cola even modified their own logo on a times square billboard to put some distance between the letters. (via colossal & fast company) update: some emoji designed specifically for covid-19. the earth with the pause button is my favorite. (via sidebar) more about... andy baio art ben greenman design emoji jose manuel ballester jure tovrljan logos music paco conde remix roberto fernandez even waffle house is closed for covid-19 posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 when america wants to know how bad things are in a crisis, they look not to the president or fema, they look to waffle house. the “waffle house index,” first coined by federal emergency management agency director w. craig fugate, is based on the extent of operations and service at the restaurant following a storm and indicates how prepared a business is in case of a natural disaster. for example, if a waffle house store is open and offering a full menu, the index is green. if it is open but serving from a limited menu, it’s yellow. when the location has been forced to close, the index is red. because waffle house is well prepared for disasters, kouvelis said, it’s rare for the index to hit red. for example, the joplin, mo., waffle house survived the tornado and remained open. at last count (as of 10:42am on 3/25), 418 waffle house restaurants across the country were closed, an unprecedented event. the remainder, from what i can gather from social media and news reports, are operating on a carry-out basis only. kudos to them for doing the right thing in trying to keep their employees and patrons safe. more about... covid-19 food restaurants waffle house “what i learned when my husband got sick with coronavirus” posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 today’s must-read is what i learned when my husband got sick with coronavirus by ny times editor jessica lustig. if you’re on the fence about whether covid-19 is worth all this fuss, lustig’s account of caring for her gravely ill husband in a brooklyn apartment while trying to keep herself and their daughter from getting sick should help straighten out your thinking. now we live in a world in which i have planned with his doctor which emergency room we should head to if t suddenly gets worse, a world in which i am suddenly afraid we won’t have enough of the few things tempering the raging fever and soaking sweats and severe aches wracking him — the advil and tylenol that the doctors advise us to layer, one after the other, and that i scroll through websites searching for, seeing “out of stock” again and again. we are living inside the news stories of testing, quarantine, shortages and the disease’s progression. a friend scours the nearby stores and drops off a bunch of bodega packets of tylenol. another finds a bottle at a more remote pharmacy and drops it off, a golden prize i treasure against the feverish nights to come. his doctor calls three days later to say the test is positive. i find t lying on his side, reading an article about the surge in confirmed cases in new york state. he is reading stories of people being hospitalized, people being put on ventilators to breathe, people dying, sick with the same virus that is attacking him from the inside now. this is a rough read, no doubt about it. i started crying at the part about his father’s sweater. more about... covid-19 crying at work jessica lustig medicine the girl with a schmeared earring posted by jason kottke mar 24, 2020 from joseph lee, a super abstract rendition of vermeer’s girl with a pearl earring. another one for my collection of gpe remixes. previously from kottke.org on joseph lee’s work: ultra-impressionistic portraits made with just a few thick strokes of paint. more about... art johannes vermeer joseph lee remix older posts and much more in the archives... kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives