instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "kraft canada" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: kraft canada rebecca 2 min read december 21, 2017 no reply an easy holiday dessert you can make (using few ingredients) food and drink, recipes recipe: cream cheese squares one of the reasons why i love the kraft canada website for recipes is because they limit the amount of ingredients for many recipes. while i love experimenting and can appreciate a recipe that calls for 15 ingredients to bring out nuanced, subtle and amazing flavours, sometimes, i just want easy. that also means using what i have in my pantry or fridge. with the holidays upon us, you may find yourself trying to come up with a new dessert to bring to with you when you are invited to an evening at a friend’s house, or when your go-to recipes have already been claimed on the work potluck list, you may need to come up with something new (but easy, that’s the theme with so few days left before christmas!) that’s one reason i loved making these philadelphia cream cheese 3-step cream cheese squares. i had all of the ingredients on hand, it took no time to make (the waiting for it to cool was the longest part!) and there’s so much versatility. i could top them with mini peanut butter cups, or drizzle with chocolate, or even add some caramel topping. keeping philadelphia cream cheese in the fridge is something we do anyway, so whipping up these bars was a breeze. if i had a pre-made graham cracker crust, i could have used that too and reduce the ingredient list even further! we are already super busy, we don’t need the added stress of baking complicated recipes added to our lists. try this instead! head over to the kraft canada website for the full recipe. recipe testing: cream cheese squares via @bitofmomsense click to tweet disclosure: i am a member of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor group and receive compensation for my post. opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read october 28, 2017 no reply your next pasta dish to keep in the fridge for a tasty meal food, recipes usually when i use peanut butter, i make a dessert. or, in this house, it gets used up just by eating it plain. my kids have taken to eating pb and pretzels as an after school snack. but i love peanut butter in a savoury dish. combine that with my desire to have easy meals ready to go and it’s not a surprise that this peanut thai noodle salad was a huge winner in my books. try this pasta salad with peanut butter the next time you need a potluck dish! via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet it’s no secret that while i love cooking, my love for being in the kitchen and creating something new and tasty has to be on my own time. during the week, when we are rushed as a family and i can’t decide what to make that is nutritious and fast, it feels more like pressure and takes the joy out of it. when i have time, it’s a wonderful way to spend part of a day. when i don’t, it feels like a chore. i think that’s why i love having easy, go-to recipes that i can use any time during the week with limited ingredients. it’s definitely one reason i have turned to kraft canada recipes for years and years. i can alter them to suit my tastes, and to use what i already have in the pantry or fridge. this peanut thai noodle salad is a cold pasta salad (i love pasta salads!) and was the perfect weeknight no-meat dish. i think next time i make it, i will keep it in the fridge for a tasty lunch for myself during the week. i used bow tie noodles because i love them but a tighter, more firm noodle (like the original recipe calls for) would hold its shape and sauce better. i also omitted the snap peas just because i didn’t have any – that’s the beauty of these recipes, i can easily change them up. the sweet red peppers were a perfect foil to the saltiness of the soy sauce and because i used kraft all natural crunchy peanut butter, the only added sugar was from the honey. i probably could have reduced the amount of soy sauce just a bit and still had the flavours i wanted with each bite. i think what i loved most about this dish was how easy it was to make. i can’t wait to make it again. for more kraft canada peanut butter recipes visit their website! do you like to use peanut butter in dinner dishes? this easy pasta salad made with peanut butter is the perfect mid-week lunch bite via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet this is post is written in partnership with kraft canada. i’m a what’s cooking contributor and receive compensation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read august 1, 2017 no reply what’s cooking: devilled eggs recipes this month, as part of my partnership with kraft canada, i get to feature french’s dijon mustard in a recipe. when this was announced, it felt like a gift. if you’ve been following the food i cook on this blog and at home (via my instagram stories!) you may know that i think dijon mustard is a staple that one should always have on hand. i love cooking with it and many recipes on my blog include it as an ingredient. i’ve made maple syrup and dijon salmon with it, and it’s the secret ingredient for my potato salad (just to name a few). it makes sense that this delicious mustard appears in many other recipes. it’s one of those ingredients that has the power to transform recipes. even just adding dijon mustard to a sandwich elevates the taste. it is no surprise, then, that dijon mustard also tastes great in devilled eggs. devilled eggs growing up my mom always made devilled eggs. it was a potluck/family bbq staple, and they were always delicious. her recipe also included miracle whip and relish. but as kids, we always asked for ones with no relish because…ew, relish (at least, that’s how we felt at 10 years old). i used the kraft canada recipe recently and skipped the relish, but did include the dijon mustard which adds a really nice tang to the flavour. the eggs are so simple to make and remind me of my childhood. one of the reasons why i think devilled eggs are such a popular item to bring to or serve at family gatherings is not only because they taste so delicious, but because they are so easy to make. they take no time at all, use a minimal number of ingredients and look wonderful when presented. here’s where you can find the kraft canada devilled egg recipe or other dijon mustard recipes. disclosure: this post is part of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor program. i receive compensation but all opinions are my own. i’m still now sure if i want relish in my devilled eggs. rebecca 1 min read may 27, 2017 no reply chocolate pudding and a twist #whatscooking [coupon link] food do you love pudding? my favourite is rice pudding, but honestly, most pudding is something i enjoy. i have one kid who’s a fan and one is usually doesn’t like pudding. yes, she doesn’t like pudding! i say usually, because there are certain kinds she ends up liking, like the hershey’s chocolate pudding cups that we were sent in partnership with kraft canada. i think there’s something about pudding that reminds me of my childhood. or maybe it’s just because i’m a fan of dessert in general. sometimes, however, it’s nice to put a twist on a traditional favourite. how about turning chocolate pudding into a banana split? slice some strawberries and add a bit of sugar to let the juices come out. slice up bananas and grab a pudding cup (bonus: you won’t need the whole pudding cup for the banana split so you have to eat the rest!) you can score your own hershey’s pudding cups to eat as is or make into a banana split in the refrigerated section of your grocery store plus there is a coupon! grab your hershey’s pudding cups coupon from @kraftcanada #whatscooking via @bitofmomsense click to tweet disclosure: this post is part of my partnership with kraftheinz canada and i receive perks and compensation for it. all opinions are my own. i wouldn’t make up that one of my kids doesn’t like pudding because i don’t even understand why 😉 rebecca 2 min read april 28, 2017 no reply recipe: fish in marinara sauce #whatscooking recipes this recipe for a tomato-fish bake had me from the moment i saw that there were so few ingredients. it was a bonus that it involved fish because we love eating fish and i love cooking with it. i think for a weekday meal, we often need some quick inspiration. this kraft canada recipe was so simple to make and i had everything on hand. a bottle of the classico organic marinara sauce (which, for the record, has a delicious taste!), oregano, pepper (i also added salt) and fish. while the original recipe called for halibut (our favourite white fish), it wasn’t readily available, and in truth, can be quite expensive. instead, i opted for two beautiful pieces of wild cod. these were actually frozen and i thawed them overnight, which makes this recipe even better. we often keep frozen fish handy. the preparation was easy (you can find the full recipe by visiting the kraft canada website link here) but i used some olive oil on the bottom of my baking dish, a cup of sauce, placed my fish on topped, seasoned with salt, pepper and oregano and baked. it took about 25 minutes. i ended up serving it with asparagus (possibly one of my favourite veggie side dishes) and a large piece of chunky bread. i felt like the bread was needed because the asparagus, while cooked until it still had a little bit of bite to it, is a softer, not crunchy veggie, and the fish is soft as well. i needed to add some texture plus, i wanted something to dip into that delicious marinara sauce. tip: in the last minute or so of cooking the fish, pop the bread into the bread into the oven alongside it to warm it up! the other thing i love about this dish is that you can make it for more than two people (and for those asking, no, my kids didn’t want anything to do with it. they don’t love white fish unless it’s in a stick format 😉 it doesn’t take long to make, and as i mentioned for a weeknight meal it was perfect. andy and i instantly looked at each other and agreed to make this a part of our meal rotation. do you love cooking with fish like we do? this is one to try any time of the week! want more recipe inspiration using pasta sauce? visit the kraft canada website! if you love fish, you’ll love this easy and tasty 4-ingredient dish via @bitofmomsense and @kraftcanada #whatscooking click to tweet disclosure: this post is part of my partnership with kraft canada’s what’s cooking contributor team and i receive compensation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read december 22, 2016 no reply dulce de leche cheesecake – yes, please! #whatscooking recipes i’ll admit something that may be shocking to some of you – cheesecake isn’t my first choice for dessert usually. my husband loves it, but i don’t always appreciate cheesecake the same way he does. however, there are some exceptions. anything that has a sauce usually catches my attention, and frankly, a traditional cherry cheesecake is hard to beat as well. a good cheesecake is good cheesecake, you know what i mean? and when i find cheesecake recipes that are delicious? i am eager to bookmark them for the future. for example, how about a dulce de leche cheesecake? sign. me. up. here’s what i loved about this recipe: it was easy to make, i can cheat if i want (by buying pre-made dulce de leche), it can be made ahead, and it makes enough to serve many people – making it the perfect dessert when entertaining. for many of us this time of year, we are cooking and baking to feed many guests, family from out of town and friends who stop by for a visit. having this in the fridge this week has been really handy when i wanted to share something sweet with people! dulce de leche cheesecake? yes please! @kraftcanada #whatscooking recipe on @bitofmomsense click to tweet click here for the full recipe. a tip: i had to heat the condensed milk longer than the recipe called for to get it more golden brown. i probably could have gone even longer to get a butterscotch or deeper brown colour and typical dulce de leche colouring. or, like the recipe says, i could just buy a jar. with so many friends and family arriving throughout the holidays, keeping up with the menu can get overwhelming. if you are looking for a dessert that can be set in the fridge and forgotten about until you serve it, this is the one for you. it’s delicious, even if i’m not the biggest cheesecake fan, this is the type of recipe that would turn me into one. happy holidays! disclosure: i am a member of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor program and receive compensation for my post. all opinions are my own. the recipe truly was delicious and has been a hit! rebecca 1 min read november 22, 2016 no reply recipe: peanut butter oatmeal chocolate chunk cookies #whatscooking recipes it’s safe to say that many of us know and love that chocolate and peanut butter are a natural combination. i’ve shared my recipe for homemade chocolate peanut butter cups before and you can click here to find more peanut butter and chocolate recipes from kraft canada. this month, as part of my kraft canada what’s cooking recipe review, i tried their peanut butter oatmeal chocolate chunk cookies. they were a hit with this family! (i think andy loved them the most!) i used the kraft all natural chunky peanut butter, which ended up being a really tasty decision. there is no sugar added to their all natural chunky pb and the recipe has plenty of sugar already so i didn’t miss that extra sweetness to the cookie. i also used chocolate chips, although chopping up my bakers semi-sweet chocolate like the recipe suggested would have worked just fine! both andy and i agree we like chunky peanut butter better than smooth. the kids don’t see eye-to-eye on this, but we loved the peanuts in our pb! these cookies haven’t lasted long these week. while i can’t send them to school as a snack, they’ve been a great after school treat for the kids. thanks to the oatmeal and the two different sugars, i loved the texture of these cookies. they had a little bit of crispness and a little softness in the middle, which for me signifies a perfect cookie. the only thing they couldn’t do? clean the mess i left afterwards! disclosure: this post is part of the kraftheinz canada what’s cooking program for which i am a contributor. all opinions are my own. i really do like chunky peanut butter better than smooth 😉 rebecca 1 min read may 19, 2016 1 reply easy dip for a quick snack or entertaining: kraft canada food and drink, recipes you know those recipes that are so easy you aren’t sure if you can actually call it a recipe? that’s sort of how i feel about sharing this kraft canada layered dip recipe made with new philly cheddar. but, i am happy to share it because oh my goodness it’s delicious! i altered the recipe only slightly, removing the refried beans, but that didn’t mean the layered dip wasn’t just as tasty. this combination for me is lunch in a cup. it has everything i love – guacamole, salsa, cheese – and salty nacho chips. the new philly cheddar can be used in a lot of different ways, i originally had planned to cook with it when i first got it, but the layered dip is the perfect flavour combination and perfect vehicle for it (although my husband enjoyed simply spreading it on a bagel!) the layered dip can be made for one (hello lonely work-from-home lunch hours) or for a crowd simply by making many cups or just using a larger casserole dish. to make my easy guacamole, i mashed up an avocado, squeezed in half a lime and finely chopped part of a small shallot. i could have skipped the shallot part and it would have been tasty too! want to try it yourself? click over to the website for the full recipe! disclosure: i am a member of the kraft canada what’s cooking team and receive compensation for this post, however, all opinions are my own. i’m really not always that lonely at lunch time. usually. 😉 rebecca 3 min read march 25, 2015 no reply 3 ways to use cheese for your next meal #cheesefest recipes what if i said the word ‘cheesefest’ to you? the celebration of cheese sounds pretty fun around here. fun for my taste buds! i’m one of those drooling-over-cheese kind of people. and by no means am i really adventurous (my husband will try any kind of cheese no matter how stinky or odd), but there’s rarely a time when a recipe that involves cheese is a miss for me. kraft canada and loblaws are celebrating cheese with cheesefest from march 19 until april 9. this is the perfect time to pick up cheese at your local loblaws store for your next meal, snack or dessert! cheese is constantly in the fridge at our house. the kids each like it in a variety of ways and typically not the same way – melted on a grilled cheese sandwich, sliced into thin slices for eating as is, cream cheese spread on bagels – the options go on and on. i love cooking with it. cheese is very forgiving. i find it’s difficult to really mess up a cheese recipe, and when in doubt, it’s perfectly acceptable to serve cheese as is! i can use cream cheese for dessert recipes or when cooking supper, and shredded cheese melts into a gooey, delicious bite. if you have been reading my blog for a while, you know i love to share cheese recipes thanks to my partnership with kraft canada. i try to focus on family friendly recipes that focus on taste first. here are three ways to use cheese in your kitchen! traditional mac and cheese this recipe still reminds me of my childhood. it’s simple, and sometimes simple is best. i feel like this is one of those recipes that will be passed on to my kids, and their kids and so on. simply lasagna my mother-in-law shared this kraft canada recipe with me years ago and i haven’t made another one yet (even when i make a simple meatless lasagna, i still follow these instructions). the recipe had me from the moment i didn’t have to pre-cook the noodles. the secret is to let the lasagna rest for a good chunk of time to really firm up. each slice is gorgeous after that. this is a go-to when serving large groups too and it freezes well! charcuterie board okay, so may it’s less of a recipe and more of a type of meal, but never underestimate the power of a delicious bite of cheese with the right chutney and crisp cracker. go with an old cheese to ensure the sharpness which contrasts sweet jellies or fruit chutneys. #dinner a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on jan 10, 2015 at 1:20pm pst you want to eat cheese now, right? which way do you love to eat cheese? don’t forget to check out cheesefest at loblaws between march 19 and april 9 to pick up your cheese! disclosure: this post was sponsored, however, all opinions are my own. i apologize if i have made you crave cheese now. actually, no i don’t. go buy some 😉 rebecca 2 min read march 23, 2015 no reply recipe: white chocolate dipped shortbread recipes a gorgeous looking cookie worthy of any spring dessert table with easter just around the corner, and spring hopefully making an actual weather-related appearance soon, now is the perfect time to experiment in the kitchen for your easter dinner table or next get together. i like pretty, light colours on the table this time of year. fresh lemons (and lemon recipes) with soft yellow flowers set on the table or soft pastels straws peeking from a drink glass, or swirled in sweet icing on a cupcake. with every season, our food changes too. kraft canada has a huge selection of simple and delicious ideas for your easter brunch or dinner, and of course dessert options. i’m bookmarking this lemon-ginger loaf cake for future baking. last year, my bunny bark was an addictive success. this year, i’m working with baker’s white chocolate again. i love being able to decorate melted white chocolate with any colour i want. pastel sprinkles is all i need again! using my traditional shortbread recipe, i made these white chocolate dipped shortbread cookies. they were instantly a hit. if we leave cookies for santa, should i start leaving cookies for the easter bunny too? enjoy! white chocolate dipped shortbread cookies to make: prepare your favourite shortbread cookie recipe. using 1 tsp of the dough, roll into a ball then flatten in the palm of your hand to make coin shaped cookies. baking at 350 degrees for about 10 minutes, or until the bottoms are becoming golden brown. remove and cool. in a double burner or microwave, melt the white chocolate. dip the cooled cookie into the white chocolate. i did it two ways; half dipped or dipping the top. sprinkle on your favourite sprinkles. place on parchment paper and let firm up. put the cooking in the fridge or freezer to speed this along. watch everyone hop to the counter when you put them out! disclosure: i am part of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor group and receive compensation for my post. all opinions are my own. i don’t actually believe we should leave cookies for the easter bunny 😉 older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.