the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu author: kraig becker video: unbreakable — the story of the 2010 western states ultra posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker if you’re looking for something inspiring, uplifting, and entertaining to watch this weekend, this video ought to do the trick. it is the entire film unbreakable, which tells the tale of the 2010 western states 100 ultramarathon. in that race, a rising young star by the name of kilian jornet arrived at the ws100 where he… read more video: yet another land rover defender review posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker if you’re like me, and you still haven’t gotten enough coverage of the 2020 land rover defender, then you’re in luck. i ‘ve uncovered yet another video review of this new rig, which is once again put through its paces in the wilds of namibia. by all accounts, this new defender is more capable and… read more adventure quickies: keen gives away 100,000 pairs of shoes, funny adventure books, and more posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker my “adventure quickies” post is suppose to be a weekly round-up of stories that i haven’t had time or space to cover elsewhere on the blog. considering the current state of affairs though, there hasn’t been much to discuss in general over the past few weeks. still, here are a few items from the adventure… read more backpacker names editor’s choice for best new gear of 2020 posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker one of the best places to be right now is in the great outdoors, provided you’re keeping yourself safely distanced from others. the fresh air and warm sun is good for us not only physically, but mentally too. which is why even in the midst of a global pandemic, its still a good idea to… read more nat geo photographer finds a changed world upon return from south georgia island posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker it has been a strange and difficult few weeks as many of us have come face to face with a global pandemic for the very first time. we’ve watched in surprise—and in some cases horror—as the coronavirus has spread and wreaked havoc on numerous countries. seeing it al play out in front of our eyes… read more video: flying angels — the northern lights brighten the heavens posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker there are few natural phenomenons that enchant and delight as much as the northern lights. in this video, we get some stunning timelapse footage of these heavenly light shows over some equally enthralling landscapes. as you can, this makes for quite a magical experience and brings a little bit of joy in a time when… read more video: testing the new land rover defender in namibia posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker if yesterday’s review video of the new land rover defender was a bit too whimsical for you, than perhaps his one will be more to your liking. this time, we head to the wilds of namibia to put the vehicle through its paces. in preparation for the release of the updated defender, land rover brought a contingent… read more gear closet: kühl silencr pant review posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker for years i’ve been hearing about a company called kühl from some good friends who swear by the outdoor apparel it makes. based on their first-hand accounts of the products, i gathered that the kühl’s clothing was comfortable, durable, and attractive, but up until recently i hadn’t had the chance to try any of their… read more is it safe to go outside during the pandemic? gearjunkie investigates! posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker news of the coronavirus pandemic has dominated our airwaves, websites, and internet forums for the past couple of weeks. heck, most of the stories i’ve posted have had either direct or indirect influence from the global crisis. this virus has put many of us on lockdown or at the very least, turned our lives upside… read more nepal airlifting foreign trekkers from everest region, sending them home posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker after closing everest for the spring 2020 climbing season, then shutting down all trekking activity a few days back, the government in nepal is now working on just how to get all of the foreign hikers in the country back home. reportedly, is has been a very quiet month for travelers visiting the khumbu valley… read more 1 2 3 4 … 1,378 next search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog