got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ home › kylie jenner › kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ the new season of kuwtk looks like it will be one of the best yet!! while we already know we can expect major drama between kourtney kardashian and kim kardashian west, another subject which will be covered in early episodes of season 18 is kylie jenner‘s recent illness. related: mason disick spills kylie & travis scott are not back together once fans picked up on episode descriptions for the first two episodes of the e! series, airing on march 26 and april 2, which made note of ky missing out on work commitments due to her illness, some speculated she could have had the coronavirus. however, stormi webster‘s momma soon after cleared things up on wednesday, leaving a comment on a fan instagram account: “for those wondering i never had flu-like symptoms! i had a horrible strep and staph infection in the throat (bleeding from the mouth and all) it was the sickest i’ve ever been.” as you may recall, her infection back in september caused her to miss out on presenting at the emmy awards with kendall jenner and kim, as well as the launch of her kylie cosmetics collaboration with olivier rousteing in paris. the 22-year-old tweeted out at the time: “hi guys! so as you know, i was getting ready to go to paris for the balmain show at paris fashion week for the launch of my makeup collab with olivier. unfortunately i’m really sick and unable to travel. i’m heartbroken to be missing this show, but i know that my amazing team, and my friends who are in town for the event, will help me be there in spirit. creating this collection with olivier has been a dream. of course this collection isn’t just for the runway.. i created this so that you could have a piece of this once in a lifetime event.” speaking of health, the makeup mogul is also revealed to be using her ample resources to make a difference as medical professionals continue to battle the coronavirus. her family friend dr. thaïs aliabadi wrote on ig about her generous donation: “i am speechless, my eyes are filled with tears of joy and my heart is overwhelmed with gratitude. i made a wish to the universe to gather protective masks for our brave healthcare workers and today my dream came true. one of my patients, a beautiful living angel just donated $1,000,000 to help us buy hundreds of thousands of masks, face shields, and other protective gear which we will have delivered directly to our first responders, as too many masks at hospitals are disappearing before making their way onto the faces of our front line heroes.” dr. aliabadi wrapped up her post: “i have never felt more blessed to be a doctor, as helping our brave er and icu workers feels just as gratifying as helping my own patients. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you @kyliejenner ❤️. you are my hero. this generous donation will help save many precious lives. our world is a better place with you in it. i love you so much. thank you x a million….” view this post on instagram i am speechless, my eyes are filled with tears of joy and my heart is overwhelmed with gratitude. i made a wish to the universe to gather protective masks for our brave healthcare workers and today my dream came true. one of my patients, a beautiful living angel just donated $1,000,000 to help us buy hundreds of thousands of masks, face shields, and other protective gear which we will have delivered directly to our first responders, as too many masks at hospitals are disappearing before making their way onto the faces of our front line heroes. i have never felt more blessed to be a doctor, as helping our brave er and icu workers feels just as gratifying as helping my own patients. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you @kyliejenner ❤️. you are my hero. this generous donation will help save many precious lives. our world is a better place with you in it. i love you so much. thank you x a million…. a post shared by dr. thaïs aliabadi (@drthaisaliabadi) on mar 25, 2020 at 10:14am pdt miz jenner commented on the upload, too, writing: “i love you! and thank you for all the love and care you put into everything that you do! you’re an angel on earth” perhaps her own battle with the strep and staph infection inspired her to help others suffering during this time? regardless, her million dollars will go a long way! hopefully more celebs can offer their support as well… [image via kylie jenner/instagram.] related posts dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton kylie jenner & travis scott are not back together, according to mason disick! kylie jenner shares ways to keep busy while social distancing: ‘being at home is fun’ the kardashian family is taking social distancing very seriously amid the coronavirus outbreak click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 10:31am pdt share this categories charity coronavirus health instagram kuwtk kylie jenner reality tv sick view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved