got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos love line featured the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... kylie jenner & travis scott are not back together, according to mason disick! home › kylie jenner › kylie jenner & travis scott are not back together, according to mason disick! kids these days! at just 10-years old, kourtney kardashian‘s oldest son mason disick just joined instagram and has already dropped a major truth bomb about aunt kylie jenner and her relationship with travis scott. related: the kardashians are taking precautions very seriously amid covid-19 scott disick‘s mini-me hopped on insta live (like many other celebs have been doing to keep occupied while social distancing) on tuesday, offering up his take on whether they’re just co-parenting or more. in response, he shared: “no, kylie and travis are not back together.” as you’re likely aware, the two called it quits in october and have been focused ever since on raising their daughter stormi webster together, though there have been occasional rumors about them attempting to work things out romantically. most recently, an insider purported that things were very much on-again between them: “the couple has always had love and respect for one another but took a break last year because they both had so much going on. they couldn’t fully focus on what it took to make the relationship work. kylie exploded in the makeup world and was busy making a billion dollar business and travis was on tour and working on music. although things haven’t slowed down much for the duo, they’re better able to handle it. at the end of the day, the couple is happy to have their family back together.” as of writing, it appears mason’s account @masondisick.official has been taken down, so maybe his parents intervened? or auntie ky pulled the plug? either way, hearing about this from a direct family member instead of a source definitely holds more weight! regardless of whether or not the former couple is rekindling their romance anytime soon, it’s still clear their main priority is their daughter! on tuesday, the sicko mode rapper shared an adorable video to his ig out on the basketball court with his 2-year-old, who chased after her ball in cute overalls while her dad shot some hoops. ch-ch-check out the sweetness (below): view this post on instagram …!.. a post shared by flame (@travisscott) on mar 24, 2020 at 2:44pm pdt while a daddy-daughter date goes down on the court, momma is doing all the self-care activities to keep herself occupied! the mogul previously explained on her instagram stories how she was staying busy while social distancing (below) and also recalled how she “didn’t leave her house” during her entire pregnancy: “it was my choice to do that, so i never let myself get bored. i watched movies; i read books; i would do full spa days and take long baths; do masks; take care of my skin; take care of my hair.” in addition to catching up on westworld on hbo, the 22-year-old said she’s been “spending more time with my daughter—cooking, reading,” adding: “being at home is fun.” are u rooting for a reunion between kylie and trav, perezcious readers, now that you got more of the scoop? [image via kylie jenner/kourtney kardashian/instagram.] related posts kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton kylie jenner shares ways to keep busy while social distancing: ‘being at home is fun’ the kardashian family is taking social distancing very seriously amid the coronavirus outbreak click click click next article next article mar 25, 2020 7:38am pdt share this categories disick babies instagram kylie jenner love line parenting perezitos stormi webster tech talk travis scott view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy