australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 02:56 edt | updated 7 hours ago l.a. mayor eric garcetti has a grim prediction of what coronavirus will do next the mayor revealed the projections that he said are keeping him awake at night. by ed mazza, huffpost us los angeles mayor eric garcetti issued a chilling warning about the toll the coronavirus pandemic is likely to take take on his city and others around the country. garcetti called the projections “horrifying” and said they were keeping leaders awake at night. “will we have hundreds of thousands of deaths, or tens of thousands of deaths? that’s what keeps us up,” he told business insider. “these are people who all know, who each one of us will know. it’ll be our friends, it’ll be our family, it’ll be people whom we love dearly.” he said the stay-at-home orders in l.a. won’t be lifted by easter, as president donald trump has said, but will last at least two months ― and he warned against false optimism. “giving people false hope will crush their spirits and will kill more people,” the mayor said. “will crush their spirits, will revert their actions, and will kill more people.” read his full interview here.﻿ garcetti also said thursday in a news conference that los angeles could soon see enough cases to rival new york city, which is now the epicenter of the pandemic in the united states with more than 23,000 confirmed cases and 365 deaths. garcetti called the footage of overwhelmed hospitals from new york “the most haunting images any leader could see, and it’s difficult for me to imagine that it won’t happen here.” and he said the problem won’t be limited to new york and los angeles. “there is no place in america that will not be overwhelmed in terms of the number of patients who need icu and other hospital beds, and how many we have in this country,” he said. “there is no place that won’t be overwhelmed by needing more ventilators and not having enough.” governors and public health officials around the country have said they need thousands of ventilators for coronavirus patients. trump said thursday that he didn’t believe the numbers. “you know, you go into major hospitals sometimes, they’ll have two ventilators,” he said. “and now all of a sudden they’re saying can we order 30,000 ventilators?” trump’s comments came hours after the united states surpassed china to become the country with most coronavirus cases. there have been more than 82,000 confirmed infections and more than 1,000 deaths attributed to the virus. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction ed mazza overnight editor, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus los angeles eric garcetti trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.