home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag lady gaga 668 posts have a read the briefing new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback it is now morally acceptable to listen to the new lady gaga single. have a read the briefing if you're going to any of lady gaga's uk tourdates you are in for a right old treat good grief what a woman. have a read playlists playlist: bell end — songs with bongs is there anything better than a song with a bell in it? no there is not. have a read the news er, lady gaga's just released a brand new single called 'the cure' put that egg down and get your listening gear around this. have a read the news lady gaga's replacing beyoncé at next month's coachella absolutely ideal. have a read the news lady gaga's announced details of the joanne world tour october is the month that will see her visit the uk. have a read videos lady gaga — 'million reasons' it carries on the story (?) from 'perfect illusion'. have a read the news lady gaga, little mix and zara larsson were all winners at last night's mtv europe music awards lady gaga, zara larsson and little mix all walked off with an award or two at last night's mtv europe music awards in rotterdam. the 'perfect illusion' hitmaker 'scooped' the… have a read the news lady gaga, the weeknd and bruno mars are all performing at the victoria's secret fashion show thing country singer lady gaga, diminutive hat connoisseur bruno mars and semi-reformed miserablist the weeknd will all be having a singsong at the victoria's secret fashion show, it's been announced. the extended catwalk… have a read the news the first episode of lady gaga's 'joanne' 'mini-series' premieres today good news for fans of both lady gaga and video content. welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is in your eyes - the weeknd the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits sandi thom's real tooting nicola roberts interview: "i feel like i discovered the singing again" a lengthy neil tennant interview further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled