home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » landscaping & gardening 9 lasting alternatives to concrete walkways march 6, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment pathways around your home can be functional (protecting grass, your feet, or creating a smooth surface to walk on.) paths can be whimsical, natural, utilitarian or decorative. here are 9 lasting alternatives to concrete walkways. alternatives to concrete walkways spring is … [read more...] landscaping, landscaping & gardening landscaping 101 – tools & planting june 17, 2019 brittany bailey 72 comments landscaping 101 - tools & planting when we bought our first home 13 years ago, we were lured by the idea of having at least half an acre of land. little did we know that it would involve lots and lots of yard work. over the years we've learned several tips and tricks to … [read more...] landscaping, landscaping & gardening, plants, toolbox diy american flag planter box june 12, 2019 domestically creative 1 comment diy american flag planter box want to add a little bit of a patriotic flair to your summer porch or patio? this diy american flag planter box is so simple to make from start to finish, you can easily create one for yourself. i've been slowly adding patriotic pieces, like this … [read more...] build it, gardening, landscaping & gardening tips to create knock out container gardens april 26, 2019 decor adventures 4 comments tips to create knock out container gardens it's that time of year again where the weather is warming up and we can't get enough of colorful flowers blooming in the yard! it's also the time of year i like to fiddle around in the dirt and create a bountiful garden. if you don't … [read more...] landscaping & gardening quick and easy diy fan trellis april 24, 2019 lara the unprofessional leave a comment quick and easy diy fan trellis every spring i find myself making a new fan trellis to replace my worn, weathered and rotting trellis that was left out over winter. this year, i am going to use the right materials (cedar and exterior screws) to allow me more than one season's … [read more...] build it, gardening, landscaping & gardening make your own diy rain chains april 19, 2019 sheri 1 comment make your own diy rain chains do you know what a rain chain is? they are an attractive alternative to those boring downspouts connected to our home's gutters. downspouts are incredibly beneficial since they help direct the draining of water during a rain storm. but, let's be … [read more...] copper, diy, landscaping & gardening, uncategorized diy, how to, roundup can this battery-powered lawn mower really replace a gas-powered mower? march 18, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments can this battery-powered lawn mower really replace a gas-powered mower? i have underestimated the abilities of battery-powered mowers for years. but, recently i received the stihl rma 460 battery powered mower to test out. did it live up to the claims? would i sell my … [read more...] landscaping & gardening, product review, video how to build a window pane lattice privacy fence and gate january 25, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments how to build a window pane lattice privacy fence and gate i should probably re-name this post how to build a window pane lattice semi-privacy fence. but, honestly it's only semi-private because the lots in downtown raleigh are so close together and the next door neighbor's … [read more...] build it, landscaping, landscaping & gardening, saving etta saving etta: front yard transformation january 18, 2019 brittany bailey 7 comments saving etta: front yard transformation & tips for saving money on landscaping i hope you enjoyed the backyard transformation i shared on monday. like the backyard, the front has taken on quite the transformation of its own. one of the first things i knew i wanted to do at … [read more...] landscaping, landscaping & gardening, saving etta saving etta update: the backyard transformation january 14, 2019 brittany bailey 7 comments saving etta update: the backyard transformation this has to be one of the biggest transformations (besides the demolition and framing) at the saving etta project! the backyard was an unruly mess of vines, overgrown shrubs, and weeds. i resisted the urge to do any landscaping … [read more...] before and after, landscaping & gardening, power tools, saving etta 46 awesome diy projects for outdoor spaces july 20, 2018 sheri 1 comment awesome diy projects for outdoor spaces one great way to enjoy more time outdoors is to make your outdoor spaces useful, attractive, and functional! here are 46 awesome diy projects for outdoor spaces that will help you to create a personalized oasis on your property. some are … [read more...] diy, do it yourself, landscaping & gardening, uncategorized diy, how to, outdoor, roundup how to easily fix a leaky hose june 15, 2018 brittany bailey 12 comments how to easily fix a leaky hose a garden hose is a valuable tool around my yard in the summertime. it's vital to keep my yard looking beautiful, keeping plants watered, and occasionally for a fun water fight with my kids. but what happens when that very useful hose springs a … [read more...] diy, fix it, gardening, home maintenance, landscaping & gardening diy, how to, outdoor installing concrete paver edging march 21, 2018 diane and dean 4 comments have you ever wanted to learn about installing concrete paver edging? edging can be a beautiful and decorative addition to your landscaping. it can delineate two different landscape materials, but can also prevent lighter weight materials (like mulch and fine gravel) from … [read more...] landscaping, landscaping & gardening concrete paver edging, landscape edging how to build a raised garden bed with a cucumber trellis march 7, 2018 brittany bailey 7 comments how to build a raised garden bed with a cucumber trellis is there anything better than vegetables grown in your garden? they are hard to top! cucumbers are very easy to grow, but do best if you give them a little extra care. when we decided to build a second raised vegetable … [read more...] build it, gardening, landscaping & gardening how to create an inexpensive mulch and stone walkway march 2, 2018 brittany bailey 45 comments how to create an inexpensive mulch and stone walkway spring is on its way and that means more rain. it's also the time of year when the grass has been dormant and there is more exposed dirt and mud in your yard. let's be honest, everyone tends to have problem spots in their … [read more...] build it, do it yourself, landscaping & gardening, mulch path, popular diy living wall planter tutorial january 31, 2018 diane and dean 2 comments diy living wall planter tutorial for anyone who lives in a "not so sunny" place (and needs a quick pick me up from the dull grey skies), you'll find this easy diy living wall planter tutorial just what you've been craving. even if you live in the sunshine state, bringing the … [read more...] decorating, diy, gardening, home decor, landscaping, landscaping & gardening diy living wall, wall plant holder 1 2 3 4 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok