welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog completing her education completely online: meet mikella published on: jul 31, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3768 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we sat down with mikella, a young student from the island of st. lucia. mikella found edx after leaving high school when she was 15, and has been completing her schooling entirely on edx. what program/courses did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i have completed 16 courses on edx including the majority of the harvardx data science professional... read more about completing her education completely online: meet mikella the employability skills checklist published on: jul 10, 2019 by david mcpherson 34750 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’ve taken 6 key employability skills and matched them with free online courses to help you build your resume and further your career. no matter what job you are applying for, possessing excellent skills in these 6 areas will help you stand out from the crowd and get hired. 1. communication skills excellent written and verbal communication skills are paramount to getting a job. reading... read more about the employability skills checklist 5 new professional certificate programs: fintech, innovation, entrepreneurship and more published on: may 22, 2018 by justine goulart 7898 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 12 courses you can complete in 6 weeks or less! published on: mar 22, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 12746 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10194 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses published on: nov 08, 2016 by david mcpherson 227574 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post words are powerful. they inspire greatness and effect change. they start movements and empower leaders. they have the power to get you hired, get you promoted and, if used incorrectly, get you fired. combine the power of words with the ease and speed of email and social distribution in the digital age and one can quickly see that it has never been more important to... read more about improve your writing skills with 6 free online courses top 5 benefits of preparing for the ielts test published on: jul 16, 2016 by megan yucel 54368 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post boost your ielts results ielts, which stands for international english language testing system, is a globally-recognised test of english language. many people are aware that having the right ielts score is one way of proving that you have the english language proficiency to enter a top university, but did you know that ielts scores are also used by governments and professional bodies for immigration and... read more about top 5 benefits of preparing for the ielts test unlock the power of language skills published on: jun 21, 2016 by alice randall 9568 views no comments posted in: learner news / mooc research like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn a new language and open the door to opportunity as the #summerofedx continues, we bring you more advice and tips on how you can refresh and recharge your resume with new skills. learning a new language is a skill that has the potential to create multiple opportunities – improving your career, your college experience or taking you on travels to change your life. we teamed... read more about unlock the power of language skills computer science, language & philosophy. courses starting soon on edx! published on: mar 04, 2016 by monil shah 5312 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! engage in thought provoking discussions about philosophy, learn a new language or examine facial recognition software. edx has exciting new courses from the world’s best institutions and universities starting soon. happiness, language and superheroes. courses you’ll love from edx! published on: feb 12, 2016 by monil shah 5846 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post fall in love with learning this valentine’s day. looking for something special this valentine’s day? the gift of learning lasts a lifetime. at edx, our mission is to not only provide high-quality education, but to offer courses in a wide variety of subject areas and skills you are looking for. this valentine’s day, we encourage you to take a course in a subject area you love. our free excel courses are some of the most popular... read more about happiness, language and superheroes. courses you’ll love from edx! page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close