columnists tipsheet cartoons podcasts sections newsletters podcasts townhall tv election capitol voices entertainment radio news live blog topics sites hot air pj media bearing arms twitchy redstate townhall finance conservative radio join vip login my account account settings newsletter subscriptions log out larry elder biography larry elder is a best-selling author and radio talk-show host. to find out more about larry elder, or become an "elderado," visit www.larryelder.com larry hosted, for 15 years, the longest-running afternoon drive-time radio show in los angeles, beginning in march 1994. “the larry elder show,” a top-rated daily program from 3 p.m. to 7 p.m. on kabc 790, became a nationally syndicated daily talk show for abc radio networks on aug. 12, 2002. now larry is seeking airwave dominance over the morning hours, broadcasting from kabc from 9 a.m. until noon. known to his listeners as the “sage from south central,” larry sizzles on the airwaves with his thoughtful insight on the day’s most provocative issues, to the delight, consternation and entertainment of his listeners. in his best-selling book "the 10 things you can’t say in america," larry skewers the crippling myths that dominate the public agenda. larry punctures all pretension, trashes accepted “wisdom” and puts everyone on notice that the status quo must be shaken up. in his second book, "showdown: confronting bias, lies and the special interests that divide america," larry again takes on the nanny state, “victicrats” and the politically correct. his latest book, "what’s race got to do with it? why it’s time to stop the stupidest argument in america," is being praised as an important, groundbreaking must-read for the future of race relations in america. elder also writes a nationally syndicated newspaper column, distributed through creators syndicate. larry was also host of the television shows “moral court” and “the larry elder show.” larry created, directed and produced his first film, “michael & me,” a documentary that examines the use of guns in america. articles rapper ice cube, who benefited from school choice, denounces trump, who supports it march 26, 2020 biden's memory isn't the only problem; it's his lies march 19, 2020 actor antonio sabato jr. -- a hollywood pro-trump casualty? march 12, 2020 hollywood in the trump era: conservatives not welcome march 05, 2020 republicans are ready to party like it's 1972 february 27, 2020 dems' new talking point on the trump economy: obama built it february 13, 2020 trump critics denounce pro-trump blacks as 'sellouts' - while criticizing trump for not having more 'sellouts' february 06, 2020 impeachment trial of trump: remember when pelosi and nadler insisted on bipartisanship? january 30, 2020 does a minimum wage hike lower the suicide rate? january 23, 2020 ilhan omar and steve king: a tale of two flamethrowers january 16, 2020 the great recession: 'reparations' gone bad january 09, 2020 cory booker gripes about a democratic debate 'with no diversity whatsoever' december 19, 2019 biden claims he marched to protest segregation; where's the proof? december 12, 2019 michael bloomberg: tax the poor for their own good december 04, 2019 if trump is 'racist' for questioning waters' iq, what is waters for questioning the intelligence of dr. carson? november 28, 2019 load more authors kurt schlichter derek hunter dennis prager walter e. williams victor davis hanson michelle malkin ann coulter scott morefield ben shapiro chris stigall paul curry kevin mccullough more... commentary archives browse by author browse by date cartoons | chip bok view cartoon watchdog.org most popular the bizarre, partisan attacks on dr. deborah birx should massie be expelled for his stunt over wuhan coronavirus relief bill? former democratic senator: trump might have covered up existence of wuhan coronavirus columnists political cartoons tipsheet townhall tv podcasts radio news video entertainment vip capitol voices election results tags finance townhall radio about townhall advertise gift guides privacy policy terms of use california - do not sell my personal information radio stations sitemap jobs contact us newsletters iphone/android apps townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com/salem media. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you