dailyrecordload mobile navigation news latest news scottish news uk & world news politics crime health real life business & consumer weird news science & technologyexpand politics football scottish premiership scottish championship scottish cup betfred cup scotland football team transfer news english premier leagueexpand sport latest sport football rugby golf tennis boxing dartsexpand tv & celebs latest celebs celebrity news tv & radio news celebrity interviewsexpand life & style scotland now in your area aberdeen dundee glasgow edinburgh inverness ayrshire live see all locationsexpand business travel road record mental health property marketplace competitions horoscopes deals funeral notices jobs crosswords inyourarea about us contact us work for us got a story? local news cookie notice advertising marketplace book an ad discount codes jobs buy a photo footie5 sports betting & casino competition rules how to complain corrections & clarifications google survey privacy notice contact the judge sunday mail centenary fund paper subscription to the daily record and sunday mail paper subscription to the paisley daily express newsletters signup terms and conditions © 2020 scottish daily record and sunday mail ltd news uk death toll rises by 181 in biggest one-day jump since coronavirus outbreak startedthe latest figures take the grim death tally in the uk up from 578 to 759 – an increase of 31% on the total from yesterday. healthy young dad dies after self-isolating at home just 10 days after new baby born coronavirusdad-of-two thomas davies – who didn't smoke and was fit and healthy – was found dead by his shocked partner rhiannon elias. celtic's scott brown donates £1,000 to glasgow a&e staff fighting coronavirus celtic fcthe hoops skipper said 'the job the nhs are doing is truly amazing'. hamilton care home residents join together in emotional sing-song during coronavirus lockdown coronavirusthe singing was led by 100-year-old martha whip. 33 die as number of confirmed coronavirus cases hits 1059 coronavirusfirst minister nicola sturgeon updated the country in parliament today. boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus after suffering 'mild symptoms' coronavirusboris johnson says he has mild symptoms and is self-isolating. police spy on coronavirus lockdown rebels from the sky as exercise rules broken coronavirusforces have used helicopters and drones to catch out rule breakers with police in england and scotland operating to different standards. 'you are killing people!' scots cop shouts at man claiming to have coronavirus in perth high street police scotlandthe officer furiously tells the man to go home and self isolate after making the shocking claims. coronaviruschanges to nhs 24 coronavirus rules and what to do if you have symptomswhat should you do if you have coronavirus symptoms? mike ashley issues grovelling apology for coronavirus response in open letter coronavirus the businessman faced fierce criticism after he claimed sports direct was an essential operator for keeping the nation fit, before performing a u-turn and closing his stores. sec sized up by army and nhs as temporary emergency hospital to deal with coronavirus crisis coronavirusthe glasgow site boasts a helipad and the army has now inspected the facility with a view to helping turn it into a critical care centre. first named scots victim of coronavirus is greenock dad with no underlying health issues coronavirusformer wemyss bay colts football coach danny cairns, 68, is understood to have died this morning at inverclyde royal hospital. self-employed to get 80% of their average earnings during coronavirus crisis coronavirusthe chancellor said the government cash - worth up to a maximum of £2,500 a month - would cover 95% of self-employed workers. super-talented scots nurse goes viral with brilliant coronavirus fightback song nhs heroesmum-of-two anne-marie cossar sings 'we’re going to pull together to kick corona’s a**e out the door” to the tune of gerry cinnamon festival classic 'belter'. scots girl wants to 'make everyone happy' with heartwarming sign language version of george ezra song down's syndromesophie skilling, who has down's syndrome and autism, made the video in her bedroom after deciding to cheer up the nation newscoronavirus: what are the rules for takeaways during lockdown?a number of supermarkets and food stores have been allowed to stay open during the outbreak - which also include takeaways. man appears in court charged with murder of springburn dad police scotlandthe 43-year-old glasgow man made no plea and was remanded in custody. coronavirus scotland: police granted new lockdown powers to prosecute scots police scotlandfirst minister nicola sturgeon said new regulations will come into force as early as later today. cops hunt for four men who carried out brutal attack in aberdeenshire fraserburgh the group set about the 48-year-old man at around 3.40pm on monday in moray road, fraserburgh scots backpacker stranded in australia after spending her savings on cancelled flight home coronavirusnichola is stuck after airlines began charging between $10,000 and $25,00 for stranded travellers to fly back to the uk. coronavirus scotland: 25 die as number of confirmed cases hits 894 coronavirusthe uk-wide lockdown is still in place and scots are being told to avoid non-essential travel. heartbroken mum shares harrowing pictures of her baby fighting deadly coronavirus coronavirusashley hildebrand has been separated from her eight-week-old daughter while she battles for life in hospital. coronavirushow coronavirus lockdown will affect scottish funeralsfuneral services are being urged to follow social distancing guidelines and will only allow close family members to attend. scottish news coronaviruswatch scots tot shout 'gaun yersel nurses and doctors' in brilliant nhs applause cliplittle finn macleod joined millions of brits who clapped in tribute to nhs staff fighting against deadly coronavirus. aberdeen priests offer 'drive thru' confessionals to flock during coronavirus crisis coronavirusparishioners of st mary’s have been urged to drop by and confess their sins to the priest through his letterbox. watch: royal navy crew salute nhs staff on river clyde in show of thanks amidst coronavirus lockdown coronavirusnhs staff at the golden jubilee hospital said the kind gesture "made their day" coronavirus scam warning over 'government texts' fining people for going outside coronavirusthe texts claim to be from the government and people have been urged not to reply to the messages. michelin tyre factory in dundee shuts bringing 50 years of production to an end dundeebosses have been forced to close the plant early as covid-19 takes hold across scotland. politics coronavirusself-employed workers to wait until june to get government bailout over covid-19 crisisthe chancellor rishi sunak announced new measures for self-employed people in the united kingdom. scots mp calls for separated parents looking after kids to receive greater support during the coronavirus crisis coronavirussnp mp marion fellows wants the uk government to provide an additional standard payment for parents if they don't receive child maintenance support. nicola sturgeon urged to back whisky production suspension amid coronavirus fears whiskya trade union has called on the first minister to support a planned cessation across the sector more children are living in poverty in scotland, government reveals benefitsanti-poverty charities warn the scale of the problem will get worse in a public health emergency. alex salmond's former adviser says his old boss is a "creep" alex salmondalex bell says salmond's "i'm sleazy but not criminal" defence was "nothing to smile about". health news healtheight signs you had coronavirus covid-19 before the outbreak - including symptoms research conducted by scientists at oxford university's evolutionary ecology of infectious disease group devised one scenario in which millions of british people may have caught the coronavirus already coronavirus: the important reason why you should leave your shoes outside your house during lockdown coronavirushealth experts have warned that the virus can live on the soles of footwear for five days. coronavirus: seven items you should take to hospital if you are admitted with coronavirus coronavirusa top health chief shared his advice on hospital admission amid the current pandemic. staff at scots care home where patient died from covid-19 fear catching virus over lack of equipment coronavirusworkers at cumbrae lodge care home are concerned about their health after a person died from coronavirus. 'eat beans to beat coronavirus' as boss at glasgow firm tells staff to ignore scare stories glasgowshokat mobarik of premier housewares has told his workers the issue has been "blown out of proportion". crime coronaviruswarning over scammers cashing in on coronavirus outbreak by selling 'miracle cures'trading standards have also warned consumers to be wary of fake sanitiser, bogus charities, over-priced home cleaning services and shopping or medicine collection services. more police to patrol scottish streets to enforce coronavirus lockdown nicola sturgeonpolice scotland chief constable iain livingstone says his officers will be sent out to deal with anyone breaking the new rules. parents of a seven-year-old girl saw her stabbed to death in random attack in park policea 30-year-old woman was detained under the mental health act after the incident in queen's park in bolton. nicola sturgeon issues statement after former snp leader alex salmond cleared alex salmondthe first minister didn't mention her predecessor by name as she said she is only focused on stopping the spread of the coronavirus. first picture of man found dead in wishaw house as police issue appeal for information police scotlandgary gray passed away at a property in craigneuk, wishaw. science & technology alcoholexperts reveal why people get 'the fear' after night on the booze while knocking a few too many jägerbomb's usually seems like a fun at the time, regrets inevitably creep in the next morning. o2 network down for scots customers leaving thousands unable to make calls supermarketsthe problem has been ongoing for several hours with o2 confirming their technical team is working on the issue man appears in court charged with attempted murder at edinburgh train station edinburgha 58-year-old man was left in a critical condition after the alleged incident in haymarket station on thursday night. whatsapp coronavirus scam message is circulating - what to do if you receive it science & technology a new scam message has started circulating on whatsapp this week, which claims to reveal a cure for the coronavirus daily record app not working? read our guide to fix it technologyour team is working on resolving the issue. weird news coronavirussex toy sales soar during pandemic as couples and singles embrace lockdownsales of sex toys have soared by 13% as people look to keep themselves entertained at home. coronavirus: priest accidentally turns on filters during livestream mass leaving viewers in hysterics twitterthe unidentified man attempted to conduct a service online, but ended up suffering some technical difficulties. kilmarnock man in stitches after finding drunk and shoeless stranger with 'nae f***ing clue' asleep on his couch alcoholmikey lennon woke up at 5.30am to use the toilet when he heard mysterious snoring coming from his living room. woman 'dies of embarrassment' when handyman spots sex toy stuck on bathroom wall weird news jem calvert, of belfast, had called around a handyman to fix her boiler but forgot to remove a decoration from her bathroom wall that was hard to miss couple split up at airport but board flight anyway - with life-changing results weird news vet janey lowes had a glam wag life with her professional rugby player boyfriend in newcastle until she went to save street dogs in sri lanka and win at animal heroes business & consumer coronavirusself-employed to get 80% of their average earnings during coronavirus crisisthe chancellor said the government cash - worth up to a maximum of £2,500 a month - would cover 95% of self-employed workers. wetherspoons boss tim martin in pay snub as he tells staff to 'go work at tesco' coronavirusmartin says he will not make any further payments to workers until the government fulfils its promise to cover 80% of the wages. national lottery euromillions results: winning numbers for friday march 20 lotteryfind out if you've scooped the massive £15million jackpot. coronavirus scotland: firm leads way in stopping covid-19 fraudsters ripping off shoppers coronavirusfree online checking tool will stop punters wasting their cash amid coronavirus outbreak. carphone warehouse to close all standalone stores with 3,000 jobs set to be axed job losses dixons carphone has announced plans to shut all 531 sites on april 3 as it plans to sell mobile phones solely in its 305 combined currys pc world stores and online across the uk. news all most read most recent coronaviruscoronavirus in scotland live as confirmed cases rise to 1059 and 33 people diethe new figure is an increase of 165 cases and eight deaths overnight. eight signs you had coronavirus covid-19 before the outbreak - including symptoms healthresearch conducted by scientists at oxford university's evolutionary ecology of infectious disease group devised one scenario in which millions of british people may have caught the coronavirus already healthy young dad dies after self-isolating at home just 10 days after new baby born coronavirusdad-of-two thomas davies – who didn't smoke and was fit and healthy – was found dead by his shocked partner rhiannon elias. 'you are killing people!' scots cop shouts at man claiming to have coronavirus in perth high street police scotlandthe officer furiously tells the man to go home and self isolate after making the shocking claims. body found in search for missing woman emily hope in river clyde in glasgow glasgowemily, 22, was last seen on february 22 leaving mango nightclub on sauchiehall street at around 2am. coronaviruswatch scots tot shout 'gaun yersel nurses and doctors' in brilliant nhs applause cliplittle finn macleod joined millions of brits who clapped in tribute to nhs staff fighting against deadly coronavirus. aberdeen priests offer 'drive thru' confessionals to flock during coronavirus crisis coronavirusparishioners of st mary’s have been urged to drop by and confess their sins to the priest through his letterbox. healthy young dad dies after self-isolating at home just 10 days after new baby born coronavirusdad-of-two thomas davies – who didn't smoke and was fit and healthy – was found dead by his shocked partner rhiannon elias. watch: royal navy crew salute nhs staff on river clyde in show of thanks amidst coronavirus lockdown coronavirusnhs staff at the golden jubilee hospital said the kind gesture "made their day" mass graves fear if local services swamped with bodies during coronavirus outbreak universities and collegesexperts say funeral firms, graveyards and crematoriums will be overwhelmed if just 1% of people who contract covid-19 die. most read most recent coronaviruscoronavirus in scotland live as confirmed cases rise to 1059 and 33 people diethe new figure is an increase of 165 cases and eight deaths overnight. eight signs you had coronavirus covid-19 before the outbreak - including symptoms healthresearch conducted by scientists at oxford university's evolutionary ecology of infectious disease group devised one scenario in which millions of british people may have caught the coronavirus already dave king leaves rangers and reveals funding plans 'on hold' due to coronavirus crisis rangers fcthe ibrox chairman has now officially stepped down as he moved to update fans on the club's response to the coronavirus crisis confirming a pause in expected new investment. martin lewis issues urgent warning to anyone with credit card debt credit cardsthe money-saving expert has advised consumers to grab a zero per cent balance transfer - while they still can healthy young dad dies after self-isolating at home just 10 days after new baby born coronavirusdad-of-two thomas davies – who didn't smoke and was fit and healthy – was found dead by his shocked partner rhiannon elias. neil lennonneil lennon makes kindness plea as celtic boss pinpoints 'caged animal' mental health fearsthe hoops knows the importance of good mental health and called for people to look out for each other. watch scots tot shout 'gaun yersel nurses and doctors' in brilliant nhs applause clip coronaviruslittle finn macleod joined millions of brits who clapped in tribute to nhs staff fighting against deadly coronavirus. aberdeen priests offer 'drive thru' confessionals to flock during coronavirus crisis coronavirusparishioners of st mary’s have been urged to drop by and confess their sins to the priest through his letterbox. ann budge in hearts salary suspension threat as coronavirus cuts row takes new twist scottish professional football leaguethe jambos chairwoman has warned her players she will move to force through cuts to protect her club. healthy young dad dies after self-isolating at home just 10 days after new baby born coronavirusdad-of-two thomas davies – who didn't smoke and was fit and healthy – was found dead by his shocked partner rhiannon elias. news sport celebs life & style follow us inyourarea about us contact us work for us got a story? local news cookie notice advertising marketplace book an ad discount codes jobs buy a photo footie5 sports betting & casino competition rules how to complain corrections & clarifications google survey privacy notice contact the judge sunday mail centenary fund paper subscription to the daily record and sunday mail paper subscription to the paisley daily express newsletters signup terms and conditions © 2020 scottish daily record and sunday mail ltd