u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition latest news 13 amazing photos you missed this week scenes of life amidst the coronavirus pandemic dominate this week's best images. by chris mcgonigal navy hospital ship rushing to new york, repairs unfinished, for covid-19 crisis trump is planning a trip to norfolk saturday as the usns comfort puts to sea, giving him a photo op as the hospital situation in new york becomes a crisis. by s.v. date dubious coronavirus experts run amok in pro-trump media fox news and other right-wing media outlets have repeatedly offered a platform for misinformation to back the president's narrative. by nick robins-early the coronavirus bill's anti-layoff provisions companies can reduce hours instead of doing layoffs, and the government will pay part of the missing wages. by arthur delaney trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died americans trapped in nepal frustrated with u.s. government's lack of response nearly 10,000 tourists are stranded in nepal after the government suspended all international flights to prevent the spread of covid-19. by rowaida abdelaziz trump orders gm to produce ventilators, invoking defense production act the memorandum directed at general motors comes as hospitals say they'll need more ventilators to weather the coronavirus pandemic. by lydia o'connor newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. 4 die on cruise ship with passengers who tested positive for coronavirus the four “older” guests who died were on a holland america cruise ship with at least two positive coronavirus cases and dozens of passengers and crew with flulike symptoms. by sarah ruiz-grossman gop candidate sends fundraising email, while decrying fundraising during coronavirus crisis new hampshire republican donald bolduc went on a radio show and said he wouldn't ask people for money. but right beforehand, he sent out an email doing just that. by amanda terkel new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected the state's plea for ventilators. by sebastian murdock this is what it's like getting an abortion during a pandemic one woman details the long, expensive, anxiety-inducing road trip she had to take after texas shut down abortions. by melissa jeltsen trump goes full ‘shock doctrine’ as pandemic rages the administration is pushing its pro-polluter agenda as the u.s. death toll from covid-19 rises. by alexander c. kaufman and chris d'angelo coronavirus is a defining test and american government is failing it it's not just trump. our politics are unfit for this calamity. by zach carter even donald trump is slamming gop lawmaker delaying coronavirus bill republicans and democrats are condemning rep. thomas massie for insisting legislators vote in person instead of holding a "voice vote." by david moye 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies amid a crisis that demands trustworthy leadership, the president has instead sowed chaos, confusion and misinformation. by ryan grenoble coronavirus shows why trump's big medicaid idea is dangerous the administration wants states to accept caps on federal medicaid funding. in times like this, that would mean fewer people being able to access medical care. by jeffrey young ny gov. andrew cuomo thanks rihanna for donation of personal protective equipment additionally, the singer's clara lionel foundation previously announced that it had donated $5 million to organizations fighting the coronavirus pandemic. by kimberley richards amid covid-19 spread, influential d.c. pastor says 'god's wrath' caused by lgbtq people ralph drollinger, who leads a bible study for trump's cabinet members, claims homosexuality, environmentalism and atheism are signs of god's wrath. by carol kuruvilla democrats’ ad blitz aims to counteract trump’s monopoly on coronavirus response the president's approval rating has ticked up during the crisis, but the eventual results will be immune to spin. by kevin robillard instacart gig workers threaten to strike, demand hazard pay and sick leave a lead organizer for the planned monday walkout says the grocery delivery company isn't taking care of workers on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. by jenna amatulli a potential treatment for covid-19 leads to hoarding, shortages in europe in the rush to find a treatment for the coronavirus, shortages of chloroquine mean people with various health conditions are missing out on medicine they need. by sasha belenky newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.