latest books blog podcasts watch about me stay in touch latest happy mum happy baby: the duchess of cambridge in her first ever podcast interview, the duchess talks about her passion for the early years, her aims for the survey and opens up about her experience of motherhood having met in birmingham at the launch of 5 big questions on the under fives, the duchess of cambridge and giovanna sat down after a joint visit to leyf stockwell gardens nursery in london to talk about the work that has built up to this landmark survey, the importance of the early years, and some of their shared experiences as mothers to three children. read the full podcast conversation, discussing motherhood and the london early years foundation. letters on motherhood letters on motherhood is a collection of heartfelt and deeply poignant letters written by giovanna to her three young sons buzz, buddy and max, husband, tom, and the family and friends who have inspired and supported her to become the mother that she is today. in this beautiful book, she shares the funny and moving personal tales of her own family life, peppered throughout with her poignant family photos bringing her stories to life. find out more eve of illusion eve of man trilogy, book 2 eve is the last girl on earth. for the last sixteen years, eve has been a prisoner. guarded by the mothers. trapped by her fate. watched by the world. until she took her chance, and escaped. eve finally has the freedom she has wanted for so long, and with bram she has the love. but both come at a price. in this dangerous new world beyond the tower, the regime are only ever one step behind. and together with the desperate rebel group fighting against them, eve has found herself in more danger than she ever could have imagined. with everything stacked against them, can eve and bram survive? happy mum, happy baby: the podcast series 5 out now! i wrote a book called happy mum, happy baby. i was overwhelmed by the amount of emails and messages i received in response. i didn't want the conversation to end there, so i decided to start a podcast where i invited others to share their experiences. the series will be a collection of frank and warm conversations with high-profile mums and dads. we'll be discussing all aspects of parenthood - the highs, the lows, the challenges and rewards. there is no such thing as the perfect parent. instead, we’re all simply doing our best. it’s time to stop comparing ourselves and champion each other instead. each episode will be truly unique yet unifying. no topic is out of bounds, and i hope the podcast and supporting video will be essential viewing for any parent seeking solidarity and support. my bedding collection with next out now, available exclusively at next online i’m not sure about you, but i love sleep. it’s one of my favourite things to do – which is pretty ironic seeing as i don’t get much of it these days. in the newborn stages with max bed was somewhere i’d long to be – snuggled up under the duvet and having a straight five hours sounded like heaven. seeing as i couldn’t actually do that, i started dreaming up ideas for the bedding i’d love to be climbing into. read more happy mum, happy baby live the podcast when we first took our show to a live audience i didn’t know what it would be like. in the recording studio i can hear every breath of my guests and it’s incredibly intimate - i didn’t know how inviting an audience along to be a part of those chats would change things... would it stop them sharing? make them filter themselves or invite self-doubt? well, i needn’t have worried because what happens is there’s a feeling of support and community in the room which is so beautiful and empowering. read more books eve of illusion letters on motherhood eve of man some kind of wonderful happy mum, happy baby always with love dream a little christmas dream dream a little dream christmas with billy and me you're the one that i want billy and me instagram please enable javascript to see this instagram feed. © giovanna fletcher 2020 ym&u group management privacy terms cookies site by ten4