latest buzz | the penny hoarder community sign in sign up share a tip / ask a question search home live covid-19 q&a topics get started surveys rss feed community home live covid-19 q&a topics directory all topics announcements dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies general discussion save money make money budgeting debt retirement investment home buying dear penny - credit card debt credit taxes insurance banking entrepreneurship book club faq get started guidelines resources faq surveys sign up sign in sign in directly to site facebook google home community forums latest buzz latest buzz featured topics new 0 replies ready for your questions! dear penny 3/23/209:47 am forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 7 likes · 391 views hey, friends! i hope you’re all staying safe and healthy during these trying times. this week, i’d like to invite you to submit your questions about what coronavirus means for your money here in the penny hoarder community group. it’s a scary time we’re facing right now, but we’re all in this together. send your questions my way and i’ll do my best to answer.read more... posted 3/23/209:47 am new 7 replies live q&a next week… | community announcements 3.19.20 maryann 3/20/201:35 pm forum: announcements 1 like · 900 views live q&a link : dear penny covid-19 q&a hi everyone, what a week… i know there is a lot of concern and anxiety in our community, and around the world. for many of us, coronavirus has us reevaluating what to do with our money. i know i’m not the only one having to rethink both my budget and spend. while panic isn’t good, overreaction is. there are a lot of personal finance questions floating around — just what do you do with your money during a global crisis? you all have asked...read more... sherry taylor 1 day ago thank you for sharing this inforead more... shakeela tesneem 3/23/208:50 am thanks maryumread more... updated 1 day ago last reply by sherry taylor · first unread post new 12 replies opportunities for positive growth amidst covid-19 michael metzger 3/17/208:12 pm forum: general discussion 2 likes · 1,399 views hello all, with all that is going on in this world right now, i thought i would take a moment to place some positivity that we can put into our lives. when it comes to our finances, covid-19 and social distancing can help our financial picture in at least two everyday activities. consider the following: 1) restaurants/bars this is a category of spending that i'm guilty of allocating too much money to. i am the type of person, and maybe you are too, who always has to be doing something. by...read more... sthom 3/20/2011:57 am absolutely, @susie queread more... susie que 3/19/2010:54 pm look at this as a positive....i know its hard, but look, more time for yourself. more time for the kids. can do things at home, you have been meaning to do.. catch up on reading, cleaning, and the wash. use up what you have. garden. put your christmas lights back up. have dinner with the whole family. reflect.......be grateful.read more... updated 3/20/2011:57 am last reply by sthom · first unread post new 15 replies this week’s community announcements 2.7.20 maryann 2/7/202:33 pm forum: announcements 0 likes · 1,528 views hi everyone, i hope you all had a great week. as someone who has adjusted well to my sunny life in florida, i was thrilled to hear pete the groundhog did not see his shadow — hello, spring! there’s been a lot of great discussion in the community this past week. a lot of you are asking some great questions, so let’s help each other out. we’d love your thoughts on these threads: catherine nicholas asked “ once enrolled and debt is paid off, how long does it take to get a good credit score ?”...read more... nicole d. 2/11/209:19 am hi @susan l. miller ! yes, i'm sorry i missed your message earlier. were you wanting to share your thoughts on saving money in retirement? please add them to this thread: https://community.thepennyhoar...-money-in-retirement . i'm sure others in the community would love to know how you save, too!read more... susan l. miller 2/10/208:52 pm @nicole d- i wanted to chat with you, not sarah c! thanks!read more... updated 2/11/209:19 am last reply by nicole d. · first unread post new 0 replies in the market for a home? ashlee 11/19/193:15 pm forum: home buying 1 like · 633 views here’s how to qualify for a conventional loan, which could save you thousands. click here to read the full article.read more... posted 11/19/193:15 pm new 13 replies how to get a loan mary keil 10/6/193:02 pm forum: credit 2 likes · 2,884 views i got a store card and built up my credit and score. then i got a loan and paid it off in a timely matter. i got another loan 18 months later. i have also been approved for other store credit cards. i have not tried for a regular credit card, because my income is not very good now. but that's how to build your score. my score was 0 and i built it up to 742read more... [email protected] 10/27/1912:54 am ms. andra powell henderson, thank you for replying to my dilemma. would you be so kind to supply more info on the internet marketer job you mentioned in your reply. i would like to look into that further. thank you.read more... adcf292 10/25/1912:15 pm before getting a loan, make sure you get your rates from all possible/available lenders. even minor difference in rate can lead to lot of savings. also if you apply together as a joint application, you could get better rates if your joint applicant has a good credit historyread more... updated 10/27/1912:54 am last reply by [email protected] · first unread post new 12 replies beginner investing emme 9/27/1911:28 am forum: investment 2 likes · 2,732 views hello. new to penny hoarder forum. i am 63 and looking forward to semi retirement. i am interested in learning about passive income. any suggestions on where i might begin? i know next to nothing about investing.read more... emme 2/2/208:58 am thank you, tony bible, for your thoughts and suggestions. much appreciated!read more... tony bible 2/1/206:24 pm emme, do a few things. 1. contact napfa. they will give advice that cfps cant, and are in your best interest. 2. take an online risk tolerance test to know how much risk your willing to take with an investment; google it or i think janis or vanguard has one. 3. do research at bankrate.com. 4. read articles by clark howard, consumer analyst and self made millionaire. whatever you do, don't jeopardize your retirement savings. blessings. be smart.read more... updated 2/2/208:58 am last reply by emme · first unread post new 5 replies closing a secured credit card frugal loo 9/7/1912:23 pm forum: credit 0 likes · 2,456 views my husband and i each opened a secure card over 2 years ago from our bank. we have been with usbank for over 15 years. when we opened our secured cards they required a $300 each. we asked if we could build credit faster if we did $500 each and the banker said yes. he told us that if we make on time payments and paid it off every month for 6 mo to 1 yr that they would automatically change us to unsecured cards with a higher amount of credit. of course we believed him and he pulled up the...read more... mintjulep 1/15/209:19 am as robin hartill mentioned, i would go directly to the bank to close those secured cards. unfortunately, there is so much fine print in legal agreements that there may even be penalties or other surprises besides a small hit on your credit score for closing these cards out. don't forget the shenanigans wells fargo served to their "valued customers" for which they basically just received a slap on the back of their fraudulent hands! i am always a bit shocked when reading the terms included...read more... prince_alarming 11/29/1912:42 pm @frugal loo what you're doing is the right path. i echo what @robin a neumann says. it was good sound advice by the lender, kudos to him/her!read more... updated 1/15/209:19 am last reply by mintjulep · first unread post new 16 replies closing credit card yes or no ana24 8/9/199:08 am forum: credit 3 likes · 3,411 views hello everyone, i need some expert advice. i was thinking about closing 2 of my credit card one is secured capital one and the other one is first premier unsecured. thinking of closing them after we get our house. i have both of my cards for almost 10 years now. i was wondering what will be the effect towards my credit score if i did close them? thank you in advance.read more... jeanne featherston 1/29/202:24 pm good advice about using it every other month or so--i applied for a loan once and got it super quick because i had so much open credit - had a $10,000 limit on a card i didn't use....because i didn't use it the company closed the account and my credit limit shrunk by 10k!read more... rolltidelady334 1/29/2011:39 am it will drop your score and take away from your credit history. just cut them up or put them away so you dont use them. then put something small on it about once a year and pay or off to keep it active.read more... updated 1/29/202:24 pm last reply by jeanne featherston · first unread post new 39 replies anyone pursuing a f.i.r.e. strategy? theodora 4/26/192:59 pm forum: retirement 15 likes · 8,607 views the f.i.r.e is on fire. https://www.cnbc.com/2019/03/01/more-workers-are-looking-to-retire-early-a-look-inside-the-fire-movement.html would love to hear from any of you who are pursuing a strategy to retire early. teach me your ways!read more... pax 3/1/201:03 am jobelle, here are a few of the things i plan to do once i have enough funds and "retire". (i used quotes because i never intend to stop pursuing my goals and stop creating new goals. as we all know, achieving goals requires some level of work... so i would never fully retire as i would always be working towards something.) i would travel, but the slow easy method. road trips and boat trips everywhere. i would not be in a rush, but instead go slow and savor each moment, stopping at whatever...read more... jobelle collie 3/1/2012:05 am i always knew i wanted to retire early. most of my family died before age 55 years old. so i began saving from my first job. by age 27 i was thoroughly dedicated into stopping work at age 45 years. my children would be done with school and my home would be paid for. that would give me some years of freedom in case i had the same family illness. well it arrived at age 40, but i was prepared. i got the best medical care i could afford and worked hard at teaching my children everything i...read more... updated 3/1/201:03 am last reply by pax · first unread post new 18 replies ready to create a budget that you can stick to? our budgeting bootcamp group has officially launched! briana 7/12/1911:10 am forum: budgeting 6 likes · 2,418 views budgeting isn’t easy. but whether you’re trying to cut spending to save for that new house or you’d like some extra money to put towards your credit card debt, establishing a budget that works for you is essential. which is why we’ve created the budgeting bootcamp experience. the bootcamp is a two-week program that will teach you how to establish a budget from the ground up and then actually stick to it. every couple of days you’ll receive helpful tips and tricks for creating your own...read more... dboothe 1/8/2011:05 am i'm retired, on a fixed income and so "out of the loop" on job openings and all the modern stuff you have to know how to do or (it seems) stand on your feet a lot. i worked at a hospital admitting job. sitting was involved and inputting information into the computer to make a patients chart...address, phone, insurance info, etc. at that time the only requirement was a high school diploma and 6 months experience working with the public. i had been a dime store (pretty sure they don't exist...read more... dboothe 1/8/2010:59 am great job annieb. grown children should help out and learn responsibility.read more... updated 1/8/2011:05 am last reply by dboothe · first unread post new 5 replies excel entire year budget sheet! heather leguilloux 1/7/1911:20 pm forum: budgeting 11 likes · 2,111 views last year i started budgeting for the first time. it was confusing to figure out at first, and also scary to see all those categories and spending limits. but after a few months, it became second nature to write out the budget and go through the statements at the end of the month to make sure these budgets were held in place. when i first started with our budgets last year i found a printable budget that had some static categories (rent, groceries, travel, etc) but this year i wanted to find...read more... shannon h 5/7/197:01 am i created my own excel spreadsheets. i've found to be easy to plan for upcoming expenditures and to see the variation in some bills each month.... like gas and electric.... i have done this for several years and it's been eye opening to see how expenses for utilities have increased over the years.read more... mintjulep 5/6/1912:20 pm @thesugarfreelife . i checked out the links and very happy to have those sources. i created my own excel sheets a few years ago, mainly for tracking where my money goes, rather than budgeting. it was an eye opener to see how much we spend on grandkids and junk food! i have not followed up to do anything with these links from heather, but very grateful to her for providing them.......my other half is retiring this year and we will need to set up a budget, i'm sure. i am a procrastinator!read more... updated 5/7/197:01 am last reply by shannon h · first unread post topics new 2 replies stimulus check m naeger 9 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 1 like · 46 views is the stimulus check taxed upfront or in arrears? thanks.read more... shannon h 1 hour ago if you collect unemployment and receive the additional $600 weekly, that is taxable. if you collect for the full 4 months, the approximately $10,000 will put you into a higher tax bracket next year come tax season.read more... dear penny 7 hours ago the stimulus check won't be taxed at all @m naeger . if you get $1,200, it's all yours to keep!read more... updated 1 hour ago last reply by shannon h · first unread post new 0 replies use this wisely j l m 1 hour ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 7 views hello and late afternoon is there an articles on how to use this stimulus (care act) fund wisely?read more... posted 1 hour ago new 6 replies looking for cell phone plans fotww 3/8/201:02 pm forum: save money 0 likes · 1,354 views i am currently looking for cell phone plans options. to begin with, i currently have a cell phone, (not a smart phone). i have it for while i am driving, for emergencies or if something comes up and i need to make a call. i am the type of person who does not like phones or texting and only have them for emergencies. the cell doesn't work at home, so the bare minimum landline is still needed. i currently have att pay as you go and it is $100/year, (10¢/minute). with my not using the phone...read more... shannon h 2 hours ago i'm looking at mint mobile as a few youtube videos which explained that you can get for $15 a month with 1gb data...and if you do 3, 6 or 12 month, the cost is even less..... i have not looked at service area yet.... that may be deal breaker....read more... theodora 3/23/2010:44 am check out visible - unlimited everything for only $40/month and operates on the verizon network!read more... updated 2 hours ago last reply by shannon h · first unread post new 13 replies baking bread colleen sikosek 3/23/2011:13 am forum: save money 1 like · 421 views i'm in hornell, ny in the southern tier. my husband and i are making our own bread as usual, which i think is pretty easy even if you don't have yeast. google sourdough bread starter and you're on your way. we're fortunate that he's able to work remotely. i got onto the wufoo site and sent a template to our local small business collaborative group so anyone can purchase a gift card on line. we live in a rural agricultural community and hope this will help.read more... shannon h 3 hours ago is there one recipe that you prefer? i've been trying a few to see which we like best as i'd like to skip the grocery for several weeks if possible. milk and bread seem to be what keeps us going out of house.... i fixed milk issue as i froze some! now just need to find bread i can make that we both like.read more... mskimberly 20 hours ago i am sure you have a lot to do with the good in him.read more... updated 3 hours ago last reply by shannon h · first unread post new 1 reply stimulus check morriaw422 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 1 like · 73 views hi penny, i'm hearing a lot about stimulus checks for families. as i understand it, if 2019 taxes haven't been filed, 2018 returns will be used. my 2019 taxes have not been completed. we had a new addition to our family since our 2018 tax return. how can i ensure our stimulus check includes our new baby, too? thanks so much for providing answers to our questions!read more... dear penny 3 hours ago hi @morriaw422 ! if your new baby was born in 2019 and you need the $500 you'll get for each child, you're going to want to file that 2019 return asap! otherwise, they'll use your 2018 return and you'll have to wait until you file your 2020 taxes (in early 2021) to get the credit. the reason is confusing, but basically, this is a credit for your 2020 taxes, but the irs has to base it on your 2018 or 2019 return since we're less than three months into 2020. if your baby was born in 2020, you...read more... updated 3 hours ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 2 replies support local businesses during this tough time moore income 16 hours ago forum: general discussion 3 likes · 70 views hey all! it's been a while since i have written a post but i wanted to check back in. there is a lot of stuff going on in the world right now and i want to start off by saying first of all, be safe! things are difficult for a lot of people financially, however, with the stimulus package coming our way, i wanted to take a moment to encourage people to support their local small businesses. the whole point of a stimulus check is to put more money into the economy, and while i don't think it is...read more... shannon h 3 hours ago don't forget those mom & pop grocery stores. no reason for us to drive 10 miles into town for milk & bread if we run out as there is a local store less than 2 miles from us.read more... dear penny 7 hours ago love that, jon! thanks for sharing!read more... updated 3 hours ago last reply by shannon h · first unread post new 3 replies car loan payment saveza landers 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 56 views the last 2 months have been terrifying barely working 8 hours a week and i pay car title loan payment s but i can’t this month i don’t want to loose my car what should or can i do?read more... dear penny 3 hours ago also @michelle lawson do you have any tips for having this conversation with the bank?read more... dear penny 3 hours ago @saveza landers i'm so sorry that you're experiencing these tough times. @michelle lawson is 100% right — and thanks for sharing this. a lot of people are in this exact situation. banks generally prefer not to go after the cars, homes, etc., that serve as collateral because it's expensive for them to do so — especially when so many people are having trouble making payments at once. call them and be prepared to provide specifics about your loss of income and back it up with documentation. the...read more... updated 3 hours ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 4 replies what will you do with your stimulus check? beckatsila 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 121 views hey, so, i'm curious--now that congress has got off their butts and passed a relief bill, what are your plans with your check? i have been working to pay off credit card debt, so hopefully the check will give me a little extra to throw at it. that said, it is tempting to buy $600 worth of video games or pad thai, lol. i'm currently laid off from my jobs at a restaurant and a hotel, but have ssdi coming in, thank god. i also have a check from a client who owes me big in the mail. and i just...read more... dear penny 3 hours ago the bill just passed the house, so the stimulus checks are one step closer to reality!read more... sthom 4 hours ago whenever i get it, i will save the majority. i will absolutely not be using it toward my debt. i think i'll be able to continue to pay my debt but if i can't, i will be calling creditors for hardship help. my focus is a larger emergency fund.read more... updated 3 hours ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 0 replies this week’s community announcements 3.27.20 maryann 4 hours ago forum: announcements 0 likes · 9 views hi everyone, i hope you all had a chance to ask dear penny a question this week. if you didn’t know, we’ve had robin hartill, the voice behind the personal finance column dear penny and the penny hoarder’s sr. editor, join us in the community this week to answer all your money questions as related to covid-19. there have been so many fantastic questions, and robin will be available through today to answer your most pressing questions. if you haven’t already, drop by the thread and leave a...read more... posted 4 hours ago new 3 replies long term effects of covid-19 moore income 9 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 2 likes · 45 views what are some of the long term affects this virus could have on the economy?read more... sthom 4 hours ago don't get me started on the snacking and eating in general . i think there will long-term effects that we can't accurately predict. suffice it to say that lots will change. i think more people will get onboard with freelancing (i'm watching a moonlighting webinar as i write this). whatever debt payoff goals i had for 2020 have gone by the wayside. i'm just trying to hoard money and food, all while staying isolated. what i was happy to see that there was provision in the stimulus package for...read more... dboothe 6 hours ago honestly, jon, i cannot think about that right now. i'm doing my best to keep spending under control...not eat my way through isolation and stay in touch with family and friends via facetime and telephone. i know when i keep busy with little projects around the house, i'm not as prone to mindless eating and mind boggling boredom. hope everyone is well and please everyone, do whatever you can to stay healthy. god bless you all.read more... updated 4 hours ago last reply by sthom · first unread post new 3 replies positive outcomes of the crisis? mintjulep 9 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 44 views there will be some positives that come from this crisis, can you foresee some of them?read more... mintjulep 7 hours ago i'm amazed at the ingenuity i see, especially from those who are facing a huge struggle. the restaurants that seemingly overnight went to carry out because of social distancing, the school teachers, in a matter of days, learning to do online teaching and getting the necessary equipment out to their students who did not possess it, my own bank set aside an appointment time for me for something important and we conducted it at the drive thru window very successfully. every day i see something...read more... dear penny 7 hours ago @mintjulep one would be that people are able to use this time in isolation to learn new things. that's going to be hard to do at a time of so much money stress, particularly for those who have lost jobs, but perhaps it will be more possible if assistance comes as quickly as possible. another would be if recovery happens relatively quickly but more people come out of this with a renewed commitment to saving for emergencies and living frugally. i guess the thing i'd like for people to take...read more... updated 7 hours ago last reply by mintjulep · first unread post new 6 replies need a daily list to de clutter and pre pack! jobelle collie 3/22/201:36 am forum: general discussion 0 likes · 458 views i’m looking at 60 days to purge what i don’t need, pack what’s going to the new house and tossing what needs to go. does anyone have a link to a list of all these tasks, broken down into daily lists, one for each 60 days. this will give me a plan and keep me motivated. thank you.read more... mskimberly 7 hours ago i keep a to-do list every day. i am moving and make sure i pack five boxes daily. eventually, i will need to do more. my boxes are being lined up in the garage, and it feels good to see my progress. it has been hard to sell things on craigslist because of the virus.read more... sasha kay 15 hours ago hi, i've moved numerous times, & this is what i like to do, hope it helps some! *get big tupperwares or plastic boxes with lids of all sizes & label them. *1st start with 4 big boxes: 1.keep 2.donate/sell 3.throw 4.undecided *now, at the start go to the 1st area/room & empty whatever it may be, a drawer a closet, a room, whatever, into the 4 boxes. i like to do from one corner of a room to the other corner & if i get stuck i take a break & come back to it. *at the end of...read more... updated 7 hours ago last reply by mskimberly · first unread post new 2 replies what about students janis chipchase milford 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 1 like · 52 views i have two kids in university, and under the current government rules, they are not eligible for any type of relief payment from the government. who is going to hire students for the four months of the summer?! this is how my kids pay for their university, work hard in the summer save all their money and live very frugally during the school year so they don't have to work then. i don't want them to go into debt - any job suggestions? my daughter is training to be a toxicologist and my son an...read more... dear penny 8 hours ago unfortunately, there aren't any easy solutions to this dilemma. @theodora 's suggestion that your kids look into remote work is a good one. if they have vehicles, they could look into delivery work. for example, instacart is hiring 300,000 workers nationwide as it faces increased demand for grocery delivery. https://www.thepennyhoarder.co...stacart-coronavirus/ and here's a list of companies that are hiring 700,000 workers in response to coronavirus:...read more... theodora 9 hours ago a good option for earning income during this time is remote work. have you checked out the penny hoarder's work from home job boards? have them take a look here . also, there is another site for remote work called we work remotely . best of luck to them! be safe and healthy!read more... updated 8 hours ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 1 reply selling online as an income option? joe charles 9 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 34 views i’m unemployed, because of the corovirus, i wanted to start selling things? online mercari said if i start selling they will give me $ , i don’t know how to start or have a paypal account or nothing? need advice? motivation?read more... dear penny 8 hours ago i don't know anything about mercari, but maybe some community members will have some advice. here's some insight on selling items online from our side gigs and careers writer adam hardy that i posted in a previous thread. "amazon is pretty much out for third-party sellers who don't have essential goods. i would also recommend holding off on selling clothes because of germs. decluttr, a tech marketplace, actually shut down temporarily amid covid-19. but offerup is still humming. they accept...read more... updated 8 hours ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 0 replies $1,200 stimulus checks dear penny 8 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 30 views good morning, penny hoarders! my apologies for not getting to many questions yesterday. i was sorting through the very long (880 pages!) bill to figure out what it means. here's some info about the $1,200 stimulus checks that most of us will probably be getting soon. if you have more questions, fire away! stay well, my friends. - penny https://www.thepennyhoarder.com/taxes/coronavirus-stimulus-checks-faq/read more... posted 8 hours ago new 0 replies financial advisor? sasha kay 9 hours ago forum: general discussion 0 likes · 32 views im totally overwhelmed with finances. i feel like ill never get it. i know i can get free reports but im wondering if im this overwhelmed should i find a financial advisor? or a family member or friend i trust & pay/ask them to help me? i have lots of paperwork & information from over the years i can hand over, im just in a big rutt & at a loss on where to even begin. . . - i appreciate the guided help - thanks so much. i hope you & your family are well. sasharead more... posted 9 hours ago new 0 replies credit card bureaus steve czirok 9 hours ago forum: general discussion 0 likes · 39 views if you have to deal with one of top three agencies, stay away from experian. they are the most antiquated miserable company i've ever felt with. you can't call them, they have a phone number and recording, can't text them,can't email them, they prefer snail mail. the time period for response is totally a lie. the other two aren't that much better. i wish these great hackers would get together and totally destroy all of them. and when the government says they are not spying on us, don't...read more... posted 9 hours ago new 3 replies side income anyone can make elon must save 1 day ago forum: entrepreneurship 3 likes · 73 views hi ph team, sort and sweet post a lot of people are looking for ways to make some side income, this is one simple way. it takes more time than anything which is good because most of the time people have extra time but no capital to start a business. this is a super low capital idea again just takes time. make a helpful learning video! now finished reading this because i know a lot of people might have already lost interest. i'm not talking about some 10-hour long course you need to record...read more... mintjulep 11 hours ago i've never created an online course but have taken many. as someone who has paid, these are likes and dislikes i personally have (likes and dislikes may be different and would love other input and opinions) 1. don't drag the vid out unnecessarily. if i have to constantly fast forward because the instructor is showing me how to put paper in a notebook, for example, i'm going to lose interest quickly. quality vs. quantity. 2. i love it when the course goes beyond my expectations.....like a...read more... moore income 16 hours ago great idea for earning some extra income. and yes i agree, you shouldn't charge too much money but it is still okay to charge something because you put the time and effort into creating it. unfortunately, there are a lot of people out there who create courses and then charge an arm and a leg but don't provide any real value. but if you can actually create something that will teach someone how to save a lot more than the material costs, then it becomes a worthy investment.read more... updated 11 hours ago last reply by mintjulep · first unread post new 1 reply online wills julie holderbaum 3/25/207:24 am forum: general discussion 2 likes · 178 views i would like to compose an online simple will; since, the bank isn't notarizing a paper one that i filled out. i could re-vamp later after all the mayhem dissapates. what company do you suggest i use? thanks, julie holderbaumread more... tomcf 11 hours ago julie- i know that we are both on this site to save money, but i would recommend you hire a local attorney to handle your will. i am a bankruptcy attorney and do not handle wills and estates. i have worked in that field before, and have seen real nightmares with online wills. every state has different rules about authenticating wills and you need to make sure you comply with those laws. you also need to make sure you get a power of attorney. 9 times out of 10 the power of attorney is more...read more... updated 11 hours ago last reply by tomcf · first unread post new 0 replies the bank has lost my money, now what chantal voltaire 16 hours ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 33 views i banked with sleepy hollow bank they were acquired by mahopac bank they declared my account dormant after 7 years , they sent my money somewhere the current staff dont know where how do get my money i went to state treasury , my state comptroller i am writing again to fdic to no avail . how can i get my money chantal voltaireread more... posted 16 hours ago new 1 reply corona-cash theodora 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 0 likes · 86 views @dear penny can you explain the details of the "corona-cash" relief package? is there a provision for small businesses as well?read more... dear penny 1 day ago @theodora so much in this bill! it still needs to go to a vote by the house, which will happen on friday, and then to president trump for signing. it's expected to pass easily. here are the big points: - singles who make less than $75,000 will get $1,200 and married people who make less than $150,000 combined will get $2,400, in addition to $500 per child under age 17 in the household. if your income is above these amounts, you get 5 cents less for every $1 above that — so you don't get...read more... updated 1 day ago last reply by dear penny · first unread post new 0 replies where can i get a budget graph paula lamarre 1 day ago forum: budgeting 0 likes · 36 views i am a budget beginner. where can i get a graph? thank,youread more... posted 1 day ago new 6 replies a reminder not to spend. jobelle collie 1/6/207:55 pm forum: budgeting 2 likes · 743 views i use a debit card and paper checks. i have a huge goal to sell my current home and build/buy a new one before december, 2020. so i made a index card with what my debt kill amount is, how much i want to save for a larger downpayment to remind myself that i do not need to buy anything but food and things i need to fix up the old house. having that reminder (stuck one on my cell phone and one on my laptop) too avoid impulse buys! wish me luck.read more... savingsmama 1 day ago good luck!! i'm sure you can accomplish your goal if you take it one step at a time!!read more... kellyfromkeene 1/27/208:44 am good luck!!! you can do this!read more... updated 1 day ago last reply by savingsmama · first unread post new 0 replies federal unemployment assistance/enhancement valerie r walsh 1 day ago forum: dear penny live q&a - covid-19 strategies 1 like · 58 views apparently the 2 trillion dollar financial stimulus bill provides for an additional (federal) payment of $600 a week. what is the process for receiving this additional amount? will it be automatic? or is there something we need to do to receive it? i'm retired on ssdi and my spouse was furloughed from his job.read more... posted 1 day ago new 0 replies where can i get a budget graph paula lamarre 1 day ago forum: budgeting 0 likes · 26 views i really need some ideas of where to start? i am a beginner. thank you.read more... posted 1 day ago 1 2 3 4 … 43 share a tip / ask a question rss feed recent topics stimulus check 1 hour ago use this wisely 1 hour ago looking for cell phone plans 2 hours ago baking bread 3 hours ago stimulus check 3 hours ago support local businesses during this tough time 3 hours ago car loan payment 3 hours ago what will you do with your stimulus check? 3 hours ago this week’s community announcements 3.27.20 4 hours ago long term effects of covid-19 4 hours ago positive outcomes of the crisis? 7 hours ago need a daily list to de clutter and pre pack! 7 hours ago what about students 8 hours ago selling online as an income option? 8 hours ago $1,200 stimulus checks 8 hours ago all topics tags 28 days of financial fitness, accounts, achieve, amazon, announcements, apps, bank accounts, banking, blog, book, book club, budgeting, community, covid19, credit, credit cards, credit scores, deals, dear penny, debt, earn, entrepreneurship, february, february financial fitness, february financial fitness challenge, finance, financial, financial fitness, free, goals, groceries, growing, home, home buying, hustle, interest, investments, make money, member of the month, members, money, online, profile, retirement, save, save money, shop, taxes, the penny hoarder, think bank all tags current visitors current visitors: 132 (4 members, 128 guests) jl m © 2019 the penny hoarder - all rights reserved. terms of service and privacy policy. membership required we're sorry. you must be signed in to continue. sign in or register × remove from your block list are you sure you want to remove from your block list? cancel yes, remove!× manage follow preferences loading... cancel submit× block when you block a person, they can no longer invite you to a private message or post to your profile wall. replies and comments they make will be collapsed/hidden by default. finally, you'll never receive email notifications about content they create or likes they designate for your content. note: if you proceed, you will no longer be following . cancel block member× advanced search sign in directly to site facebook google advanced search directory all topics guidelines resources faq loading... please wait... <div id="{%=id%}" class="reveal-modal small h-alert-modal-popup" data-reveal>
    <h4 id="{%=id%}_title" class="margin-bottom-10 popup-title"></h4>
    <div id="{%=id%}_body" class="margin-bottom-10 popup-body">
        </div>

    <ul id="{%=id%}buttongroup" class="full-width button-group h-popup-buttons even-1">
    <li id="{%=id%}okay_buttoncontainer"><a id="{%=id%}okay" class="button success no-margin-bottom h-alert-modal-ok-button" role="button">ok</a><script type="text/javascript">
        (function() {
            function {%=id%}okay_click(event, data) {
            {%=id%}popup.hide();
        }
        
                $('#{%=id%}okay').on('click', {%=id%}okay_click);
        })();
    </script></li></ul><a class="close-reveal-modal">&#215;</a></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
        (function() {
            {%=id%}popup = new ss.popup.modalpopup('{%=id%}');
        })();
    </script>