skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about latest co-op £5 frozen meal deal (april 2020) by naomi willis | last updated 27th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin it’s time to stock up your freezer with the latest co-op £5 meal deal which is in stores from 25 march 2020. the co-op food’s freezer filler meal deal is always a favourite with savvy shoppers, and it provides a quick, cheap meal when you’re in a rush, or you fancy a treat. image via the co-op group – co-op tote bag after some easy food that won’t break the bank? then this latest deal from the co-op is perfect. plus, on top of the food, you get a tasty cadbury creme egg tub of ice cream for dessert. this month’s co-op meal deal includes everything you need for a cheap and tasty family meal. plus, this deal is vegetarian – which doesn’t happen very often! one of the reasons it’s so popular is because you make such a big saving! if you bought all five of the frozen foods separately it would cost you £10.65, so you’re saving £5.65 on this bargain £5 deal. this meal deal can easily feed a family for a fakeaway. it also makes a perfect weekend treat for the kids. co-op £5 frozen meal deal here’s what you get from co-op for £5: goodfella’s thin crust margherita pizza 458g co-op garlic baguettes 310g co-op skin on fries 500g co-op battered onion rings 454g cadbury creme egg ice cream tub 480ml the deal is also not available in all stores so don’t get your hopes up before heading to the shop. a full list of co-op stores taking part in the deal can be found here. you’re also only able to get the big discount if you buy all five items in the same transaction unfortunately, you’re not able to substitute any of the foods. this current co-op meal deal runs until 14 april 2020. and, don’t forget, you can get it for just £4.50 if you have an nus card. there’s no need to worry though. this isn’t a one-off deal and co-op should release a new £5 meal deal at the end of the month. image via the co-op group – co-op old street rebranding launch did you know that you can now get co-op delivery in some stores! looking for more offers on food? iceland is also running a £5 big night in pizza offer where you get a pizza, side, pudding and a drink for a fiver! check out the new b&m £5 meal deal or have you seen the £2 lunchtime meal deal at poundland? shop elsewhere? take a look at all of the other latest supermarket offers. enjoy this post? why not also sign up to receive our newsletter. we send out all the best money saving news and tips from the site and as an added bonus you’ll get an exclusive £16 cashback from quidco (new members only) naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about