u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost latino voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition latino voices latinos and hispanics immigration domestic abuse victims need more help as coronavirus spreads, senators say two dozen senators urged the trump administration to not forget domestic violence survivors as the government addresses the pandemic. by alanna vagianos women expecting babies during coronavirus ask: who will be with me in labor? no partners. no doulas. giving birth alone is hardly what these women had in mind. by catherine pearson homeless families in los angeles take over vacant homes as coronavirus spreads “since the government’s not doing their job, we the people have to take power into our own hands,” said a mother occupying one state-owned property. by sarah ruiz-grossman trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad in parenting — and everything else — now is the time for grace the coronavirus pandemic has reminded me of an important life lesson: self-compassion is crucial. by kate auletta house cleaners are out of work and unprotected amid the coronavirus pandemic one house cleaner lost all her clients. another is worried about being infected if she goes to work. neither will get paid if they stay home. by sarah ruiz-grossman newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. spanish musicians perform 'my heart will go on' on balconies amid coronavirus lockdown alberto gestoso and alexander lebron torrent delivered a haunting version of céline dion’s "titanic" theme high above barcelona. by curtis m. wong mexican police chief arrested in connection with november slaying of 9 mormons he is suspected of protecting organized crime and aiding the attack. by ja'han jones disabled people call out things non-disabled people don’t realize are offensive the disability community is educating the public with the hashtag #youmightbeableistif. by elyse wanshel west virginia corrections dept. will institute holocaust training after nazi salute photo a spokesman said the anti-defamation league will aid in holocaust-related training after cadets were fired for making a nazi salute. by ja'han jones west virginia government employees fired after investigation into nazi salute trainees and staffers with a state agency gave the salute in a class photo, saying they were honoring an instructor. by ja'han jones house democrats want to know why migrants keep dying in federal custody the house oversight committee wrote letters demanding documents from the department of homeland security on migrant deaths in ice and cbp custody. by sarah ruiz-grossman top olympic committee issues ban on political gestures during 2020 games the committee will attempt to root all political gestures out of the 2020 games in tokyo. by ja'han jones trump seeks to highlight evangelical support with launch of coalition donald trump is launching "evangelicals for trump” at a miami megachurch on friday, days after christianity today denounced him in an editorial. by jonathan lemire and elana schor, ap with 'drama,' victoria canal could raise bar for disabled artists in pop music huffpost got a first look at the spanish american singer-songwriter's new video, which she sees as a message to her inner critic. by curtis m. wong korey wise of the exonerated 5 plays santa, gives out gifts in harlem wise, a subject of ava duvernay's "when they see us," was exonerated in 2002 after serving 14 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit. by ja'han jones julián castro drops out of 2020 presidential race the democratic hopeful let go of his presidential aspirations for now. by alexis arnold alleged attack on producers of netflix's 'gay jesus' film prompts investigation in brazil "the first temptation of christ," a comedy which depicts jesus returning home on his 30th birthday, has been deemed blasphemous by a number of critics. by david biller and marcelo de sousa, ap i'm in love with an undocumented immigrant and we are living in constant terror i wake up each morning petrified about who or what he might encounter, and i go to sleep thanking god he returned to me and our daughter. by by "sarah," guest writer, by "sarah," guest writer women in hollywood are getting more roles — if they're white the number of female characters in box office hits reached a “recent historic high,” according to an annual study, but women of color are making fewer gains. by marina fang brazil's supreme court overturns censorship of netflix film depicting gay jesus the satirical porta dos fundos show doesn't have the "magic power" to undermine an over 2,000-year-old religion, brazil's supreme court president wrote. by diane jeantet, associated press newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost latino voices. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.