toggle navigation create and go home all courses login launch your blog biz the ultimate solution for starting and growing a blog to making over $1,000/month -- without being a tech wizard or a scammy sales person! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! our blogging career started out with a big fat failure... hey, y'all! we're alex and lauren, and this is a photo from our first blog. we started out no differently than probably most of you. i, lauren, was a cpa doing tax for an accounting firm and alex was working full-time as a personal trainer, trading his hours for dollars. we had big dreams of escaping the 9-5 and putting an end to limited vacation time and chasing weekends... of traveling the world before we were retired. we started our first blog and worked nights and weekend on it -- pouring our hearts into it. the truth is that we had no idea what we were doing when we first started, and our first blog failed -- spectacularly -- as a result. it's a tough pill to swallow, but it's the truth. not everyone starts a blog the right way or becomes successful. in fact, the majority don't... we were so excited for our first blog and we had tons of ideas and energy behind it, but we never felt like we were actually going anywhere. we felt like we we just spinning our wheels and "hoping" it would work. the worst part: we spent a lot of money on software and other things that we didn't need at the time. courses on courses. webinars on webinars. things other bloggers and entrepreneurs told us we that we had to have... it's not all doom and gloom though. it was through these experiences and initial failures that we learned how to successfully launch a blog the right way. but... why did the first blog really fail?? we made every mistake in the book the first time around... 1. we wasted time and money on the wrong things. we spent days trying to design a logo that changed at least 5 more times in the following weeks. for a blog that ultimately failed...**face palm** we didn't know what we should focus on or what we should ignore. this led us to waste thousands of dollars and hours on things we didn't need!!! 2. we didn't properly learn how to use wordpress! wordpress is the most powerful blogging platform out there, but we had no idea what we were doing with it. trying to make the simplest changes with our blog proved to be very difficult. all we wanted was to create a beautiful blog and get our message out there. is that too much to ask? 3. we didn't know how to easily write blog posts people loved. we created the content that we thought other people wanted to read. this led to our blog being entirely about ourselves -- not our readers. we wasted hours and days writing blog posts and going over them again and again, trying to "get it right." it was only later on that we learned how to create content people loved. 4. we didn't know how to make money. we had people showing up to read our blog, but we had no idea how to connect with our audience and make money. making money on the internet is daunting enough when you don't know what you're doing! and we had no clue! 5. we got bad advice from wannabe "gurus." we purchased quite a few "expert blogger" courses that never seemed to work. it felt like everyone else was just "lucky" and that we just didn't have what it took. the problem was that we were looking in the wrong places and we weren't able to find the right people to learn from. people like us. normal people. but we turned this first failure around with our next blog... from failure to two grown adults jumping up and down like school children... so we abandoned the first blog we started. it was an epic failure. and we started a completely new blog called avocadu. this time we were going to take all the mistakes we made originally and do it differently. about 4 months in of trail and error something crazy happened. i remember it like it was yesterday. we were trying yet another way to make money with our blog. we had been burned so many times up to this point. but then everything changed... we gave a new system a try... one we made up. we finally decided to trust ourselves, use our failures, and try something completely new and we made our first $172.82 in blogging income! we finally did it! we proved that we could make some amount of money from our blog! here are some screen shots from that month: amazon associates: $85.62 clickbank marketplace: $87.20 while you might not think it's much, that first income meant the world to us. it was gas money. grocery money. money to pay for some of our blogging expenses. after 4 months of blogging, we had made $0 and were getting discouraged. we didn't have much help or guidance. and the help we did have was the wrong kind. we were mostly winging it based on the jumbled amount of free information (95% of which completely wasted our time) that we found online. we didn't yet know it at the time, but this first $172.82 was shockingly life-altering. we had just figured out the first piece of the puzzle that eventually led us to becoming six-figure bloggers. because this is what happened next... our income started doubling every month for the next few months! in february, we made $924 (a 525% increase!) this was the month that we stumbled on how to use emails to sell affiliate products, and the first step to begin scaling our income. in the following months, our income was not only increasing -- but it was becoming consistent! in march, we earned $2,353. at this point, we would wake up every morning, hop out of bed, and run to check our email for sales. and most days, we were making sales overnight while we were sleeping! so, what happened?? why was everything growing so quickly?? well, the short answer is that we had just failure enough to make it work. we learned from all those mistakes. and it only grew from there... we took all the lessons we learned and built not just one but two successful blogs... our failures taught us how to launch avocadu.com -- the right way! (we have tutorials that show you how to create a beautiful blog just like this!) in the first month, we successfully launched and built our blog from scratch! by the 3rd month, we had 300,000+ visitors and readers and had and quit our full-time jobs! by the 6th month, we had made $17,163.98 with our blog! by the end of the first year, we had made $103,467.98 blogging and started traveling the world! and launched a third blog, create and go: in the first month, we successfully launched and built our blog from scratch! by the 3rd month, we had 30,000+ monthly visitors and had made our first course! currently... we are making over $50,000/month with this blog alone! because of these successes, we have been able to help so many people start a money-making blog... the right way. "i just started making money through my blog for the first time. is this real life??? this is proof lauren and alex know what they are talking about! their "basic trust funnel email template" is worth the price of the whole course. i would have paid double the price for the course for what you get on day 5 in the template." - pat, create and go student meet rachel, hairstylist and newbie blogger! "i had no idea how to use wordpress and i was very intimidated by that chore. i didn’t know how to create an article. i didn’t know what i would write about. i didn’t know what to do with the viewers that came to my website once i had them there. but i decided that i had to learn." does any of the following resonate with you? 1. you feel like something is missing in life. maybe you're staring out the office window watching the sunny days pass by. maybe you just want more time to spend with your kiddos at home. or to travel the world before you're 65 -- when you're young enough to really enjoy it. or maybe you're just tired of building someone else's dream in the corporate world... that something more is called freedom -- to live the life that you desire. 2. you love the idea of making money online but are feeling overwhelmed. everyone and their brother is pitching you a new get-rich-quick scheme. how do you sort through the phonies from the real guys? you’re likely swimming up to your eyeballs in bad information and have no idea who to listen to and where to start. 3. you don't know what to blog about or how to make money. you weren't born a “sales person” and don't intuitively just get how that process works. none of this comes "naturally" to you like it must for everyone else. we're here to tell you that you don’t have to be a magical unicorn sales guru to make money online. far from it. we get it, y'all. we really do. we were in your shoes just a hot second ago. big dreams but no idea how to achieve them. cpa and personal trainer, remember? we were (and still are!) average joes. if we can do this, you can too! take a second to imagine... you start your blogging career off with a hot start! you’re sizzling… you’re hot to touch… you’re on fire! a fast start helps you build momentum and success breeds success. you don’t waste your time anymore trying to be a professional “value hunter” on the internet and get results fast. you are building the foundation for your blog to thrive. these are the lessons you need to understand not only how to start and launch your blog but to take it to $1,000 per month -- and beyond! you are making your first $1,000/month from your blog. take a moment to imagine how that kind of money would impact your life. like seriously, just pause for a second. that’s an extra $12,000 per year. you learn all of this and more from six-figure bloggers who don’t just blog about business. our first six-figure blog, avocadu.com, is our health and wellness blog that we have taken to earning over six figures in a year. we don't just blog about business and blogging. our courses contain the strategies that we have used successfully in multiple blog niches. this is why our information works. it’s not just fluff to build up your ego, it’s results-based information that can change your life. and we want to change your life… and now, it's your turn to finally build your blog the right want and make your first $1,000/month from your blog! introducing... launch your blog biz the ultimate solution for starting and growing your blog to making your first $1,000/month, without being a tech wizard or scammy sales person! with this course, you will learn how to... easily work wordpress and design a gorgeous blog we know how daunting wordpress can be. the comprehensive wordpress training in this course is geared towards non-techies and covers everything from setting up menus, creating categories for your blog posts, understanding plugins, how to add images to your blog posts, and all kinds of other settings and customizations. create content people love learn how to create incredible content with ease, find your writer's voice, what to blog about, and get step-by-step help on your first 10 blog posts. we also teach you how to find great keywords and headlines for your content to ensure that you can attract the most readers to your content. get tons of readers to your blog (fo free) getting quality readers to your blog can be expensive (facebook, we're looking at you!). most new bloggers believe that all they have to do is write content and publish that content on social media to get visitors. there is so much more than that, but we're going to show you how to do this without ever having to pay for ads. we will show you how to get visitors to your blog from pinterest, google, and youtube organically (aka for free). make your first income blogging! there are a lot of people who get readers to their blog but never actually make any money from it. this is because they usually don’t know how to get the right kind of reader to their posts who are actually looking to buy. we will teach you how to get readers who love spending money! make money using ads, sponsored posts, and guest posts there is a lot of debate about whether or not to put ads on your blog. we'll dive deeper into this, show you how to set them up and where to put them. we'll also discuss some ways to diversify your income with other strategies like writing sponsored posts. build an email list of raving fans an email list is the single most important tool you will use as a blogger to connect with your audience and start earning an income. learn how to set up your first email list, including what to write in those first few emails, and how to turn that welcome sequence into a sales funnel that sells products! you'll learn how to start building trust with your readers from day 1. and sooooo much more! "i'm finally experiencing what it feels like to actually make money while you sleep. this is my dream come true, and i can't wait to see things get even better once i learn everything there is to know about blogging so that i can make it my full-time business. if you're questioning whether or not you can make this work, you can! i came from knowing absolutely nothing about blogging, and here i am making money already, and it's only been about 8 months!" - kari, create and go student meet brooke castropolous from costa rica! brooke said, "after i bought the course and watched the first video, i knew i had already got my money's worth!" it took her just 4 weeks to build and launch her beautiful blog. "i can't say enough good things about it." here are a a few of the beautiful blogs some our new bloggers have created with the course: the course includes several different theme tutorials so that you can choose which theme is right for you and design it just how you want it! course curriculum introduction and course objectives available in days days after you enroll start support group, checklists, and other resources start our blogging story (11:00) start course strategy, objectives, and expectations start how to navigate this course (7:23) start honest blogger sh*t (39:07) getting started: hosting, wordpress, and initial setup available in days days after you enroll start hosting account and wordpress setup (14:36) start write your first post, launch, and set up domain email (10:11) start wordpress tutorials and general settings (40:11) start installing plugins + basic recommendations start additional wordpress setup (ssl, security, and more) blog themes and design available in days days after you enroll start wordpress themes, expectations, and recommendations start divi theme (22:36) start flash theme (14:16) start blog design and structure start designing with divi (30:25) start blog images (adding, resizing, and more) (11:06) start branding and logos (11:58) blog content strategy - how to create amazing content people love and share available in days days after you enroll start what to write about (17:50) start blog post structure and basic seo (5:58) start getting readers to click on your posts and read them (22:20) start setting up blog legal pages (36:00) start thoughts on gdpr email marketing basics available in days days after you enroll start why email marketing is so important to your business (4:11) start the basics + overview your email marketing strategy start email marketing services (36:57) start switching to convertkit (from another provider) (5:01) setting up your email campaign and strategy available in days days after you enroll start why readers subscribe + how to create a lead magnet (16:49) start how and where to collect emails (18:43) start creating landing pages for maximum conversions (8:09) start how to create your first form and email sequence (welcome sequence) (17:21) start overview of a basic sales trust funnel (23:54) start setting up the trust funnel template automation in convertkit (15:43) start email content strategy start incorporating broadcasts into your email marketing strategy start frequently asked questions about emails and funnels ads and sponsored posts available in days days after you enroll start ad revenue: the basics (9:54) start top ad networks for bloggers (8:40) start sponsored posts: the basics + resources to get started (11:12) basics of affiliate marketing available in days days after you enroll start affiliate marketing: the basics (35:26) start affiliate links: conversions, cookies, tracking, getting paid, etc. (8:30) start affiliate disclaimers: rules, regulations, and disclosures (12:07) start common affiliate marketing mistakes to avoid (17:12) creating your affiliate marketing strategy available in days days after you enroll start what to think about before getting started start where to link affiliate products start how to find great affiliate products (20:39) start bonuses, limited-time sales, and fostering relationships to scale start monitoring and maintaining your affiliate strategies finding and selling affiliate products available in days days after you enroll start getting started with amazon associates (28:24) start linking amazon products in your articles (17:01) start selling other affiliate products on your website (31:55) start affiliate programs and marketplaces blog traffic basics available in days days after you enroll start traffic: expectations and where to start (28:26) start overview of different traffic sources (12:24) start social sharing icons start using google analytics pinterest available in days days after you enroll start what is pinterest and how does it work? (9:15) start account setup and rich pins start creating viral content on pinterest (26:58) start pinterest seo (17:52) start using tailwind to scale your traffic (101:06) start using group boards for collaboration (10:32) start pinterest best practices start pinning tips, guidelines, and recommendations youtube available in days days after you enroll start youtube: the basics (10:48) start setting up your youtube channel (12:42) start optimizing for youtube search (12:22) start other tips for succeeding with yt (11:28) google available in days days after you enroll start google seo traffic: the basics (23:00) start backlinks and guest posting (12:46) start optimizing your content for google search (20:14) start how to get more google traffic to your blog with seo (47:32) facebook groups available in days days after you enroll start using fb groups to drive traffic to your blog: the basics (19:57) start managing your fb group to maximize traffic & conversions (35:12) start starting a successful fb group and getting people to join (46:20) skills, hacks, and other blogging resources available in days days after you enroll start business structure, finances, and taxes start how to use freelance writing as a side hustle start secrets to growing an instagram account (10:00) the next steps… bonus videos from six-figure blogger available in days days after you enroll start blogging sales equation simplified (14:40) start affiliate products vs. creating your own (13:37) become an affiliate for create and go available in days days after you enroll start become an affiliate for create and go start launch your blog biz images (for affiliate use) "their course cut my learning curve in half, literally. without t heir course, it would have taken me far longer to put this blog together. there are so many things they mentioned in their course that i had no idea were even possible. before buying their course, i was walking blind, trying to figure out how to blog and just didn't have any idea what i was doing..." - michael, create and go student you'll also get these awesome bonuses... bonus #1. affiliate programs and marketplaces round-up ($97 value) hunting for good affiliate programs, networks, and marketplaces is time-consuming and can be overwhelming at times. we've done some homework for you and compiled a list of some of the best affiliate networks and marketplaces as well as some great affiliate programs in various niches! bonus #2. email trust funnel templates ($297 value) the money really is in the list. the email list, that is. these templates will guide you through creating your first email sales funnel designed to build trust with your audience and sell your first affiliate product! bonus #3. community support group ($47/month value) this course comes with access to a private community support group where you can chat with other members about what's working, what's not, other blogging strategies, and what steps you need to take next! lifetime access and updates as we all know, the world of blogging is changing constantly. software and technology become obsolete and pave the way for new ideas and strategies. we will update the course as needed and help you overcome any unforeseen hurdles that may arise (as they will!). take a peak inside the course... "this course took me from hitting my head against a brick wall (wordpress) to feeling absolutely empowered and confident about my blog launch." - christina, create and go student off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $297 enroll in course for $297 who is this course for? beginner bloggers and soon-to-be bloggers newbie bloggers, this is your jam. whether you've just started a blog (or haven't even started yet!), this course will help you do everything from getting a domain name all the way through setting your blog up, creating content, building your first email list, driving traffic, and making money with your blog. motivated and busy people we’ve taught everyone from busy young professionals to moms with 3 kids how to make $1,000 a month with a new blog. everyone has their own schedules and their own sh*t going on. you can make this work -- even if you're super busy -- as long as you're super motivated! we'll teach you exactly what you need to focus on and when to focus on it, so you can still make this work for you even if you’re up to your eyeballs in to-do’s. who is this course not for? intermediate to advanced bloggers looking to make extra money this course was designed to take new and beginner bloggers to an intermediate level. therefore, there are sections in this course that are geared more for intermediate bloggers and can help you make more money. but if you've already set up and designed your blog, built your email list, written a ton of content, and begun monetizing -- this course is not for you. our next courses would be more up your alley! pinterest traffic avalanche for those interested in driving more traffic and six-figure blogger, for those interested in scaling their income through creating and selling their own products. inside that course are the email marketing, product creation, sales page strategies, and other more advanced tips you are looking for! personal blogs not interested in making any money hobby bloggers, i love ya, but this is not for you. this course is about building a blog as an online business that is optimized for making money. lazy peeps looking to have everything done for them do you like cutting corners? are you already thinking about outsourcing certain parts of your blog? if you're looking for a get-rich-quick scheme, or someone to hold your hand through the process, this course is not for you. we are teaching you how to build your own online blogging business -- one that you can run yourself! we will teach you what to do and how to do it. but we will also teach you how to be resourceful and solve problems on your own as they arise. we have a support group there to help you along the way, but it will require you to roll up your sleeves and do some work. that’s what it takes to be successful at anything in life! this course is no different. frequently asked questions what if i haven't started my blog yet? no problem! we will walk you through the steps to selecting the best domain + hosting package to get your blog started! the majority of this course is dedicated to content that will help you build and launch your blog, but there is a beginner introduction on starting and setting up your blog if you haven't already! we've got you covered! will i need to purchase anything else once i buy the course? the only thing we strongly recommend is a paid hosting service. we do strongly recommend a few other paid software services because of their ease of use, customization, and power (and ability to get you results faster) but they are all completely optional. we provide free recommendations in the course as well. do you offer any refunds or guarantees? absolutely. if you go through the course, implement our strategies, and don't see any results, then you can email us within 60 days for a full refund. all we ask is that you provide evidence that you've put these methods into place with your blog and they have not worked for you. note that this course is designed for beginner bloggers and not for advanced users. we are so confident in the strategies that we teach that we specifically don't offer refunds simply because you went through the course and claim that you didn't learn anything. this isn't fair to us or to others. all refunds are subject to the terms of the full refund policy linked on the footer of this page. will this course help me get traffic to my blog? absolutely! this course is both on driving organic (free) traffic from pinterest, google, and youtube as well as making money - the two things every newbie needs for their growing blog! what format is the content delivered in? video! you will have video instruction and step-by-step walkthroughs of every major topic. this is by far the best way to learn the material we provide - by us demonstrating exactly what we have done to have so much success. there are also some written explanations and summaries provided in the course as well. can i find this information for free online? no chance! sure, you might be able to hunt down some of it if you spend what equates to hundreds of hours researching, reading posts, and experimenting like we did, but that’s an atrocious waste of your time. even then, most of the email marketing tips and traffic tips pale in comparison to what we teach here. you can only expect surface level information to teach you so much. these strategies come from the thousands of hours that we have put into growing our blogs over the last two years. do you ever update the course? absolutely. we will update everything as needed. we will pay close attention to the information and it’s relevancy to our newbie bloggers. is there a time limit to complete the course? how long do i have access? there is no time limit to going through the content in this course. it's a completely go-at-your-own-pace thing! your access to the course doesn't expire. the blogging world is an ever-evolving and changing monster that you have to stay on top of if you want to win! this is why you get lifetime access to this content, including videos, worksheets, and any future updates to the course! is my credit card secure? credit card security is extremely important to us. that's why we've partnered with stripe to handle the billing and provide a secure socket layer, 128-bit encryption. frankly, your credit card data is safer making an online purchase through our secure site than it is using it to pay for gas or buy food at a restaurant. so feel comfortable knowing your transaction is 100% completely protected from fraud. you also have the option to checkout with paypal as well! how do i get started? scroll down, click the big red button, checkout, and you’ll get immediate access to the course! who are the bloggers that are teaching this madness?? alex nerney & lauren mcmanus co-founders, avocadu & create and go hey there, blogger! we're alex and lauren, and we own a health and wellness blog at avocadu.com as well as a blog called createandgo.com, where we teach people just like you how to turn your passion into a profitable business you love. we absolutely love what we do here at create and go, and we've been featured on some major websites for what we do. in less than 9 months of working online together, we turned our health and wellness blog into a passive income machine making $20,000 per month in blogging income. we were able to quit our full-time jobs working as a personal trainer (alex) and a cpa (lauren) to pursue our dreams of being able to work from home and we now make over $100,000/month with our two blogs. we have even been able to travel to countries like nicaragua, peru, bali, portugal, and more - all while working on our blogs! don't get us wrong... it takes hard work and dedication, but you'll find that working on something you love and that has the ability to majorly impact your future is a million times more rewarding and fun than a job that you hate. now, it's your turn to experience the fun and success that we've been able to achieve! let's do this thing together! "alex and lauren have helped me so much! i was overwhelmed and had information overload from all of the info about blogging available. create and go lays out the steps in a simple way, cuts out all of the fluff, and explains why each strategy is necessary." - jessica, create and go student "their course cut my learning curve in half, literally. without t heir course, it would have taken me far longer to put this blog together. there are so many things they mentioned in their course that i had no idea were even possible. before buying their course, i was walking blind, trying to figure out how to blog and just didn't have any idea what i was doing..." - michael, create and go student meet lauren tingley, mother of two from california! lauren, who is also a full-time teacher, was able to launch her beautiful blog in just 3 days! not kidding! lauren said, "i wasted a ton of time trying to figure it out on my own... you need this course! it's really really helpful. both you and lauren are super to easy to understand and follow." off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $297 enroll in course for $297 © create and go 2020 terms of use privacy policy refund policy create and go home affiliates