log in - join laura 365 home about podcast tv books radio vault laura 365 contact us latest podcasts "it either ends with the left destroying trump, or it ends up with the left being repudiated" -- newt gingrich reveals what's at stake as the dems' ramp up their impeachment mania the left continues to ramp up their impeachment mania and their case falls apart with the emergence of more details. victor davis hanson and former speaker of the house newt gingrich join laura to break down the latest developments, and reveal what's at stake. dems bet the farm on impeachment as americans and the markets scream "no!" guests: pat buchanan and peter schweizer democrats continue to push for impeachment of president trump. will this witch hunt end the same as the last one? peter schweizer and pat buchanan join laura to breakdown the latest developments. suit up! this is the fight of our lives, "for the heart and soul of our country," says joe digenova on dems' impeachment mania. the democrats are going all in on impeachment. what does this mean for the "heart and soul" of the country? bill o'reilly and joe digenova join laura it break down the latest updates, and reveal why now is the time to suit up and fight back against the radical left. join laura 365 to access the podcast commercial-free why iceland's approach to coronavirus testing may be better than america's in the two months since covid-19 began its rampage across the world, most countries, including the u.s., have opted to test only those people with active symptoms, telling others to self-isolate if they suspect they are infected with the coronavirus. read more joe biden is barack obama without the fake greek columns whatever you think about president trump and his response to this global pandemic that sparked from a chinese "wet market" selling wildlife, you cannot exactly be heartened to behold the response offered by democrats. read more why iceland's approach to coronavirus testing may be better than america's in the two months since covid-19 began its rampage across the world, most countries, including the u.s., have opted to test only those people with active symptoms, telling others to self-isolate if they suspect they are infected with the coronavirus. based on that approach, more than 480,000 people have tested positive for the virus since it first appeared in wuhan, china last december, including more than 68,500 in the u.s. read more well done, congress. it's now time to respond to china. hold on, america. "phase four" is coming. read more nih failed to test coronavirus drugs, studied drunk monkeys, soap operas, and tailgating instead federal agency's history of wasteful spending looms over 'what if' questions surrounding the current pandemic. one expert told nih 87.5% of studies may have been wasted. read more professors worry their bias will be exposed by online classes professors are now worried that the political bias they bring to the classroom will be easily recorded and exposed to the public now that their courses have been moved online due to the wuhan coronavirus. read more 1 2 3 4 5 ... 25 next >> tweets by @ingrahamangle laura ingraham stay connected join laura's mailing list copyright © 2002-2020 lauraingraham.com. all rights reserved. | terms & conditions | privacy policy powered by nox solutions laura