u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition laura paddison editor, this new world laura paddison is an editor based in london. she edits this new world, a series exploring some of the biggest global challenges and looking at the movements, projects and people striving to create better economies and societies. she commissions and writes about climate change, biodiversity, inequality, the affordable housing crisis, among other topics. she won a gold lovie award for reporting on the palm oil industry and was a 2019 fellow on the cuny resilience journalism fellowship program. before joining huffpost she was editor of the guardian’s sustainable business section. contact her by email laura.paddison@huffpost.com or on twitter @laurapaddison show full bio 12 hours ago this mayor is giving people $500 a month, no strings attached. here’s his advice for trump. march 20, 2020 what the world's happiest country can teach us about surviving the coronavirus crisis march 13, 2020 6 experts on why we panic about the coronavirus but not about the climate crisis february 25, 2020 how this frozen mountain vault could save us from a global food crisis got a tip? do you have info to share with huffpost reporters? here’s how. february 21, 2020 we have 10 years left to save the world, says climate expert: 'humanity is at stake' february 14, 2020 just 162 billionaires have the same wealth as half of humanity january 21, 2020 discarded plastic and uneaten food: the shameful story of airline cabin waste january 21, 2020 a new protein source could be a planet-saving game changer january 3, 2020 5 environmental news stories to watch in 2020 january 2, 2020 2019 was the year the world burned load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.