lazy man and money blog home about what i’m doing now consumer protection is le-vel thrive a scam? is jusuru a scam? is beachbody’s shakeology a scam? is “it works” a scam? is neora (nerium) a scam? youngevity scam? are doterra essential oils a scam? is plexus a scam? is jeunesse a scam? is kangen water a scam? visalus scam exposed! is advocare a scam? contact archive income streams: the forgotten fire ingredient let’s be cheap amazon fire hd 10 sale ($100 prime) shopping for the end of the world (as we know it) our family’s coronavirus update featured on get money tips and a chance to win $25 every month! your name your email more than 10 million served latest articles income streams: the forgotten fire ingredient are you looking for a safe retirement? in these uncertain times, the best plan is to have multiple income streams. for the first time in 11+ years the stock market has fallen fast. (it's recovered over the last few days, but i feel it is temporary.) the last time the market had this kind of drop it was 2008. while there was a concept of fire in the personal finance community, the acronym of financially independent/retire early simply wasn't … [read more...] let’s be cheap when i started blogging in 2006, the personal finance blogosphere focused most of their attention on saving money. i remember reading one article where the blogger wrote that he makes sure not to open the refrigerator too many times a day, because he calculated it costs 4 cents to cool it back down. that's far too extreme for me. however, like most bloggers from back than, i have a central area where you can save money on almost … [read more...] amazon fire hd 10 sale ($100 prime) just in time for distance learning or watching netflix while you are crying in your bathtub (no judgment), the new fire hd 10 is available at its lowest price - $100 (for prime members.) i love the old version that i bought when i wrote this original review that i ended up buying two more. they've been lifesavers the last week with the kids home at school. this version of the fire is mostly the same but with a faster processor. readers … [read more...] about learn more about lazy man and money, how the site developed over the years, and more at the about page. recent posts income streams: the forgotten fire ingredient let’s be cheap amazon fire hd 10 sale ($100 prime) shopping for the end of the world (as we know it) our family’s coronavirus update connect email facebook google+ pinterest rss twitter please note that we may have a financial relationship with the companies mentioned on this site. we frequently review products or services that we have been given access to for free. however, we do not accept compensation in any form in exchange for positive reviews, and the reviews found on this site represent the opinions of the author. © copyright 2006-2020 · perfect plan publishing, inc. · all rights reserved · privacy policy · advertising · a narrow bridge media design