find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories leadership leadership founders daphne koller co-founder of coursera daphne koller co-founded coursera in 2012. she served as the company’s co-ceo until 2014, and then as president until 2016. daphne has recently founded insitro which applies machine learning techniques to drive innovation in the area of life sciences. before insitro, daphne served as chief computing officer of calico labs, an alphabet (google) company using advanced technology to understand aging. before founding coursera, daphne was the rajeev motwani professor of computer science at stanford university, where she served on the faculty for 18 years. she is the author of over 200 refereed publications, and has been honored with multiple awards and fellowships, including the presidential early career award for scientists and engineers (pecase), the acm prize in computing, the macarthur foundation fellowship, and the cox medal for excellence in fostering undergraduate research at stanford; she was also recognized as one of time magazine’s 100 most influential people in 2012. daphne was inducted into the national academy of engineering in 2011 and elected a fellow of the american academy of arts and sciences in 2014 andrew ng co-chair of the board and co-founder of coursera andrew ng co-founded coursera in 2012, served as the company’s co-ceo until 2014, and is currently the co-chair of the coursera board. he is the former chief scientist at baidu, a chinese language search engine, where he was responsible for driving the company's global ai strategy and infrastructure. dr. ng is also an adjunct professor in the computer science department at stanford university. in 2011, he led the development of stanford's massive open online course platform and taught an online machine learning class that was offered to over 100,000 students - the initiative that led to the co-founding of coursera. previously, dr. ng was the founding lead of the google brain deep learning project. dr. ng has authored or co-authored over 100 research papers in machine learning, robotics, and related fields. in 2013 he was named to the time 100 list of the most influential persons in the world. he holds degrees from carnegie mellon university, mit, and the university of california, berkeley. leadership jeff maggioncalda chief executive officer jeff maggioncalda joined coursera as ceo in june 2017. he previously served for 18 years as the founding ceo at financial engines inc, a company co-founded by economist and nobel prize winner william sharpe. financial engines grew rapidly under jeff's leadership, providing high-quality online investment advice that has helped millions of people save and prepare for retirement. jeff has also worked as a consultant at mckinsey & company and cornerstone research, and continues to serve as a director of silicon valley bank, inc. he holds an mba from the stanford graduate school of business and a bachelor's degree in economics and english from stanford university. in his free time, jeff is a lifelong learner and proud dad, and enjoys studying music theory and spending time with his wife and three daughters. shravan goli chief product officer and head of consumer revenue shravan goli is coursera's chief product officer and head of consumer revenue. before joining coursera, shravan was at dhi group inc. where he initially served as president of dice, a tech job marketplace, and successfully led the growth strategy and operations for dice, dice international, clearancejobs, and slashdot media. before that, shravan served as president and chief executive officer of dictionary.com where he sparked impressive growth through product innovation. previously, shravan was gm for social media business at slide, inc. and at yahoo!, he served as gm for yahoo! video and as head of products for yahoo! finance. earlier in his career, shravan was at microsoft where he started out as an early member of the msn.com team and led the launch of several msn services and subsequently held roles in the home and entertainment division. in addition, he was a co-founder of corners.in, a content-centric social networking service. shravan holds an m.b.a. from the university of washington and an m.s. in computer science from the university of maryland. kim caldbeck chief marketing officer kim caldbeck is the chief marketing officer at coursera. kim joined coursera in april 2015 as director of brand and product marketing. prior to coursera, kim spent five years at facebook launching many of facebook's first consumer marketing campaigns in over 60 global markets. she spent much of her time in the mobile space spearheading facebook's internet.org launch to bring internet to the offline world, leading product marketing for facebook for android and facebook for every phone, and developing the facebook for android beta program. she also spent two years in business marketing at facebook helping advertisers build their brands and businesses in the digital world. prior to facebook, kim worked in marketing at apple supporting a network of over 100,000 app developers. she started her career in brand consulting and consumer research at landor associates working with many of the world's leading brands. kim received her undergraduate degree from harvard university and her mba from stanford graduate school of business. dil sidhu chief content officer dil sidhu is coursera's chief content officer. before joining coursera, dil was at columbia business school where he served as vice dean of executive education as well as adjunct professor of management practice. previously, dil served as chief external officer and managing director of executive education at the alliance manchester business school, where he sparked exponential growth of the international executive education program in sao paulo, dubai, shanghai, hong kong, and singapore. dil holds an m.b.a. in strategy marketing from middlesex university and an m.sc. in operations management and research from the university of west london. rich jacquet chief people officer rich jacquet is coursera’s chief people officer. prior to joining coursera in 2019, rich was the chief people officer at gigamon, a network security company with approximately $350 million in revenues. while shaping gigamon’s culture and employee experiences, he helped take the company public and scale the team to over 800+ people. rich has also held significant leadership positions at yahoo!, ebay, packeteer and bay networks. he has an mba in organizational studies from notre dame de namur university and earned his bs in business from california state university at chico. richard wong vice president of engineering richard wong is the vice president of engineering at coursera. he oversees coursera's infrastructure and product development. prior to joining coursera, richard spent 4 years at linkedin where he led the international engineering team and helped expand linkedin to support over 20 languages. he also founded linkedin's growth initiative in china as the head of engineering and led the successful entry of linkedin into china in 2014. prior to linkedin, richard spent over a decade at microsoft leading various product development teams in the us and china. richard received his master’s degree in electrical engineering from stanford university and earned a bachelor of engineering degree from the chinese university of hong kong. leah belsky chief enterprise officer prior to joining coursera, leah was a senior executive at kaltura, an intel capital funded video technology company. she led the company from $1 million to $50+ million in revenue, overseeing kaltura's 160 person global customer growth, operations, professional services teams, launching kaltura's education business and european operations, and driving key parts of the product and business vision. leah began her career at the world bank and national institutes of health, served on president obama's technology policy committee, and remains a member of the council on foreign relations. she also sits on the boards of engine advocacy and public knowledge, leading technology and startup policy organizations that promote freedom of expression, innovation, and access to knowledge. leah is a graduate of yale law school and received her undergraduate degree from brown university. tom kovats vice president of finance tom kovats is the vice president of finance at coursera. previously, he served as vice president, financial planning & analysis at financial engines inc, the largest registered investment advisor in the united states. during his tenure, financial engines grew its revenue from $30 million to $500 million and its market capitalization from $140 million to $2.5 billion. tom partnered with executive management on corporate strategy and business operations as well as the company's 2010 initial public offering and its 2016 acquisition of the mutual fund store. prior to his thirteen years at financial engines, tom held various finance and accounting roles at technology and internet companies, including emc and oracle. tom graduated with a bachelor of business administration in finance from the university of notre dame. he is passionate about coursera's mission and enjoys acting and improv in his free time. xueyan wang vice president of services xueyan wang is vice president of services at coursera. in this role, she oversees program management, partner services, learner services, and community initiatives supporting online degrees and coursera’s consumer and enterprise businesses. prior to joining coursera in 2014, xueyan spent 9 years at google leading various services and operations functions in the u.s. and china across advertising, commerce, and consumer products. while at google china, she established google’s advertising policies and process, helping launch google adwords in china in 2005 which grew into multi-million dollar business. xueyan has a master’s in communication from the university of georgia and earned her b.a. from beijing foreign studies university in china. anne tuttle cappel general counsel anne tuttle cappel is general counsel at coursera. she spent the previous 13 years as general counsel for financial engines where she was a key leader of the company’s 2010 ipo and responsible for all of the company’s legal affairs, corporate governance, and regulatory strategy. prior to joining financial engines, anne served as vice president and assistant general counsel at loomis sayles & company, a federally registered investment advisor, handling contractual, compliance, and regulatory matters. while with a global private investment group, anne handled venture capital and private equity investments in technology, pharma, communications and education companies, intellectual property, and domestic and international tax matters. anne received a j.d. from boston university school of law and a b.a. in economics from yale university. rick levin senior advisor rick levin is a senior advisor at coursera and the former ceo. he joined the company in 2013, after completing a twenty-year term as president of yale university, during which time he rebuilt the campus, redeveloped downtown new haven, co-founded yale-nus college in singapore, and generally strengthened the university’s international programs – in china in particular. he is the frederick william beinecke professor of economics, emeritus. nikhil sinha senior advisor nikhil sinha is a senior advisor at coursera. he is also currently the ceo of gsvlabs and partner at coursera's investor, global silicon valley (gsv). previously, nikhil was coursera's chief content officer. prior to joining coursera, nikhil was the founding vice chancellor of the shiv nadar university. he has also served as a faculty member and as associate dean for academic affairs at the university of texas, and has held senior positions in several organizations, including silverskills, efunds corporation, idlx technology partners, and adams capital management. nikhil is currently non-executive chairman of the board of hcl infosystems, a director of silverskills pvt. ltd., a director emeritus of the us-india business council, and a member of the advisory board of the annenberg school for communication at the university of pennsylvania. he received his m.a. and ph.d. from the annenberg school for communication at the university of pennsylvania and his b.a. (honors) from st. stephen's college, delhi university. university advisory board simone buitendijk vice provost, imperial college london david leebron president, rice university arturo molina vice president, tecnológico de monterrey peter todd dean, hec paris mark searle university provost, arizona state university andreas cangellaris university of illinois at urbana-champaign coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates