login sign up login sign up learn from the best leadership books each month leaderbooks makes it easy for you to apply new ideas to your leadership from the best books out there. sign up - $14.99/mo curated by michael hyatt who has been featured in: leadership growth & acceleration like you’ve never experienced leaderbooks makes it easy for you to apply new ideas to your leadership from the best books out there. leaderbooks is a monthly reading experience designed for busy leaders who want to grow, but just don’t have the time. with a focus on application over retention, leaderbooks provides expertly curated tools, fast summaries and action ideas designed to help you apply the best insights on leadership. sign up - $14.99/mo what you get every month connect with our global network and share ideas with fellow c-suite executives and leaders. you’ll also get specially curated content and new insights every month that will help you break through the barrier of your largest goals. global network of active leaders discussion prompts for deeper learning insights and learnings unique reading selections downloadable activation guide online portal & app sign up - $14.99/mo see what leaders have to say "leaderbooks has helped me to fully realize how having daily habits/disciplines can really move the needle on personal and professional goals." - ml quisenberry "i love the accountability with leaderbooks. a year ago i recognized that i learn best with others and with some accountability. the activation guide is exactly what i have needed to bring my reading to the next level." - neal newhof "each book brings a different perspective on how other businesses are successful and provides opportunities to add or adapt or just remember strategies to grow my business and myself." - marilyn strong "leaderbooks books have been so stimulating and exciting to me personally and professionally. they require new thinking and cause me to see areas where i can grow and improve myself to reach my goals." - lily pevear "the consistency and rhythm of reading each day, with margin for the weekend, has helped to broaden my understanding and focus. reading books that i probably wouldn't have found on my own with the insights from the activation guide has been a lid-lifting experience." - tom roepke "leaderbooks has led me to books i would not normally pick for myself resulting in new and innovating ways to look at leadership, communication, productivity, and personal development." - craig jerome sign up - $14.99/mo the perks of being a member guides for mastery our team of experts curate executive guides for high-value resources so that you can absorb important concepts and ideas, in just 30 minutes a day. global network of leaders collaborate and discuss key insights with 4,000+ of the sharpest minds. direct access to industry leaders mentorship is vital for achievement. every month, get exclusive access to the featured author along with some of the most in-demand industry leaders. in-depth author interviews the monthly author interview series allows you to join in on the conversation and get to know each featured author while diving deeper into the content. the leaderbooks app download our convenient mobile app to access all of your leaderbooks content including daily readings + discussion boards, all from the comfort of your phone. maximize your time grow your leadership accelerate your results get ahead & stay ahead "how many books you read doesn’t matter if you never apply them." - michael hyatt reading can be one of the most effective tools for personal growth and development, but only if you take it a step further and learn how to apply the concepts to your leadership. that's where leaderbooks comes in – a monthly leadership experience focusing on some of today's most important books on leadership with specially curated content that will help you break through the barrier of your largest goals. join the thousands of like-minded leaders waiting to connect and exchange ideas, insights, and key learnings within this vast global network of professionals. about the curator: michael hyatt with over 33 years of experience in the publishing industry and several new york times bestsellers of his own, michael hyatt knows books. as one of the nation’s thought leaders on issues related to effective leadership, michael is a mentor to thousands around the globe. with leaderbooks™, michael aims to make it easy for you to excel as a leader (and reader) as well. sign up - $14.99/mo $14.99 monthly subscription order now cancel anytime. available: support © 2020 michael hyatt & company, llc | hosted on kinsta