welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7050 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! the employability skills checklist published on: jul 10, 2019 by david mcpherson 34750 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we’ve taken 6 key employability skills and matched them with free online courses to help you build your resume and further your career. no matter what job you are applying for, possessing excellent skills in these 6 areas will help you stand out from the crowd and get hired. 1. communication skills excellent written and verbal communication skills are paramount to getting a job. reading... read more about the employability skills checklist lifelong learning and career advancement on edx: meet andreas published on: jun 25, 2018 by carolyn tiernan 2924 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we recently talked with andreas who completed the micromasters program in managing technology and innovation from rwth aachen university on edx. here’s what andreas had to say about his experience earning his micromasters credential: how did you first learn about edx? i first read about edx in the mit technology review magazine back in 2014. after hearing about it, i signed up. i’ve been an... read more about lifelong learning and career advancement on edx: meet andreas from nursing to ngo work – changing careers with a micromasters program credential: meet mandela published on: may 29, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 2472 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i’ve been following edx for some time, and first heard about the micromasters program, leadership in global development, from university of queensland, in the edx newsletter. i have always wanted to be a global leader, and this course seemed like the first step to get there. there was even an opportunity to gain entrance to a prestigious university if i earned the credential! i couldn’t... read more about from nursing to ngo work – changing careers with a micromasters program credential: meet mandela leadership skills – essentials for success published on: jun 02, 2017 by sara reich 9008 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post leadership skills are increasingly important for anyone looking to advance their career. from working in teams, to communicating effectively, to making the right decisions — possessing these key leadership skills will set you up for success on the job. we have plenty of courses on edx that will help you become a better leader. the following courses offer you the opportunity to learn these essential skills... read more about leadership skills – essentials for success professional certificate programs: delivering real job impact and critical skills you need to stand out published on: apr 25, 2017 by anant agarwal 11950 views 2 comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post today, we are proud to announce the launch of professional certificate programs, the latest offering to further our mission to increase access to education that today’s global, connected learner demands. professional certificate programs are a series of in-demand courses designed to build or advance critical skills for a specific career. created by industry leaders and top universities, professional certificate programs help develop the skills and... read more about professional certificate programs: delivering real job impact and critical skills you need to stand out 5 qualities recruiters look for in job candidates published on: mar 28, 2017 by mike hebert 13660 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re looking for a job, you know how difficult it can be to catch an employer’s attention. in today’s job market, you often need to show more than just the required qualifications to get hired. but what else do recruiters look for in potential employees? read on to find out some of the qualities that make the biggest impression on recruiters like myself. 1.... read more about 5 qualities recruiters look for in job candidates 4 courses that will help you become a better leader, inspired by abraham lincoln published on: feb 17, 2017 by monil shah 22284 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post are leaders made or born? in a survey administered by the the center for creative leadership, c-level executives from companies across 53 countries were asked this question. below are the results: about 53% of top executives think leaders are made about 19% think leaders are born just over 25% think leaders are both, born and made. with many believing that leaders are in fact made, it presents the question, can... read more about 4 courses that will help you become a better leader, inspired by abraham lincoln courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now published on: jan 17, 2017 by anant agarwal 5221 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2015, we were proud to announce a collaboration with microsoft to help k-12 school leaders spark innovation and enhance learning. today, that promise becomes a reality with microsoft in education on edx and the first course, launching innovation in schools from mitx, starts today with additional courses beginning in january, february and march. bringing together the best in technology with experts in education, microsoft... read more about courses from top universities, designed for school leaders starting now 6 development courses to help you transform the world published on: jan 12, 2017 by justine goulart 7216 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2015, countries from all over the world adopted a new set of sustainable development goals (sdgs) as part of the united nation’s transforming our world: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the agenda set forth 17 “global goals” as a plan of action for our world to end poverty and hunger, protect our planet and ensure prosperity for all. below is a snapshot of the 17 goals. the un’s... read more about 6 development courses to help you transform the world page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close