english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get free crm home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in lead management complete sales activities, see detailed company and contact records, and view communication history in one place so you can manage leads without the hassle. manage and follow up with leads all in one place get set up in seconds to start managing sales leads without the hassle. get free crm works with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows personalize your sales outreach without digging for details. spend less time preparing for your follow up. cut down on the amount of time you spend preparing to make a sales call or send an email. hubspot crm automatically publishes emails, recorded calls, and sales notes to a contact’s timeline so you can quickly find the information you need to personalize your follow-up. with contact details, company information, and historical communication right at your fingertips, you can easily revive cold leads or tailor your pitch to new prospects without hunting for an opener. save time by following up with leads right inside hubspot crm. stop juggling multiple tools. access contact details and follow up with leads all in the same place. make sales calls, send emails, assign tasks, and more without ever leaving the hubspot crm. when used with hubspot marketing, automatically assign new leads to the right sales reps, create follow-up tasks, and add new deals to your pipeline. best of all, hubspot crm automatically logs your sales activities so you can spend more time working through your pipeline and less time on busywork. track sales activity across your whole team. make sure your leads aren’t slipping through the cracks. use hubspot crm’s free dashboard to see how many sales calls were made, emails sent, meetings held, and tasks completed by each individual sales rep – and your team as a whole. spot productivity and pipeline trends across any given period of time, and drill into the details with a single click to make sure critical follow-up activities are being completed on time. the free crm that goes far beyond contact management contact & lead management add company and contact records, log sales activities automatically, and easily keep records up to date. see every interaction you've had with contacts, and use this data to build campaigns that close more deals. pipeline management add deals to your crm with a single click, assign tasks to push deals forward, and track progress in your dashboards. contact & company insights get insights your sales team will actually use by automatically pulling company details from our database of over 20 million businesses. email tracking know the second a lead opens an email, clicks a link, or downloads an attachment — then send a perfectly timed follow-up. email templates & documents turn your most effective and repetitive sales emails into templates, and build a library of documents that you can access inside your inbox and share with your entire team. gmail & outlook integration out-of-the-box integration with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows. access email templates, contact and company info, and more right inside your inbox. facebook & instagram lead ads create lead ads for facebook or instagram that automatically capture contact information and sync with your hubspot account. forms build mobile-optimized forms, pop-ups, banners, and slide-ins to convert visitors into leads, and add them to any web page. contact activity see detailed interactions between a contact and your website in a single place, including page views, form submissions, sales activity, and more. conversations inbox a universal inbox that gives your sales, marketing, and customer service teams one place to view, manage, and reply to all conversations from live chat, bots, or team email aliases. meeting scheduling create a scheduling link that you can share with prospects, giving them the power to book time on your sales team’s calendar. live chat & bots connect with website visitors in real time to convert new leads, close more deals, and provide better support to your customers. use bots to automate and scale your live chat conversations. close more deals with less work hubspot crm makes it easy to organize, track, and grow your sales pipeline. get free crm it’s free forever for your entire team, with unlimited data and up to 1,000,000 contacts. increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy