back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press improving lives through learning company news: udemy secures $50 million investment from long-time partner, benesse holdings the leading global marketplace for learning and instruction by connecting students all over the world to the best instructors, udemy is helping individuals reach their goals and pursue their dreams. transforming lives talent is universal, but opportunities are not. with access to online learning resources and instruction, anyone, anywhere, can gain skills and transform their lives in meaningful ways. 1 of 4 our beginnings as a child in a turkish village, udemy’s founder saw first-hand what’s possible when learning is within reach. eren bali found opportunities online and was inspired to help others do the same. 2 of 4 our marketplace udemy believes the world’s best teachers aren’t always found in classrooms. our instructors come from virtually every country and offer courses in 65+ languages on practically any topic. 3 of 4 our instructors udemy instructors are passionate about sharing their knowledge and helping students. they’re experts who stay active in their fields in order to deliver the most up-to-date content. 4 of 4 transforming lives our beginnings our marketplace our instructors our global reach udemy is the leading global marketplace for teaching and learning, connecting millions of students to the skills they need to succeed. 57k instructors 150k courses 295m course enrollments 33m minutes of video 65+ languages 5,000+ enterprise customers 80% of fortune 100 companies trust us for employee upskilling staying ahead of the future of work udemy helps organizations of all kinds prepare for the ever-evolving future of work. our curated collection of top-rated business and technical courses gives companies, governments, and nonprofits the power to develop in-house expertise and satisfy employees’ hunger for learning and development. learn more how learning drives pinterest’s business performance keeping up with the rapidly evolving workplace a great place to grow udemy employees live out our values every day as learners and teachers ourselves. our culture is diverse, inclusive, and committed to personal and professional development. we’re not afraid to take on a new challenge, and we love taking udemy courses! join our team the pulse of udemy udemy tech see what our engineering and data teams are working on udemy blog check out the latest news, ideas, and opinions on our blog udemy research read udemy’s original research into forces shaping the 21st-century workplace follow us udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english français deutsch español português 日本語 copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property