welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners learner stories starting a new career on the right foot with a professional certificate program: meet maureen published on: mar 03, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 1210 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? six sigma and lean: quantitative tools for quality and productivity professional certificate program from tumx. although i have a background in engineering, i was starting a new career in performance excellence (continuous improvement of processes and reduction of waste). i wanted to learn the concepts and tools to succeed and... read more about starting a new career on the right foot with a professional certificate program: meet maureen thinking about an online degree? advice and reviews from our online learners published on: oct 22, 2019 by liz joyce 5577 views 1 comment posted in: learner news / learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post online education opens unprecedented opportunities for learning, bridging the gap between high quality credentials from top universities and those who want to learn, but have limited access because of schedules, funds, or geography. today’s possibilities are vast, but the online learning landscape is still relatively new. approaching a more intensive program like a master’s degree can feel intimidating, especially if you’ve never encountered a massive... read more about thinking about an online degree? advice and reviews from our online learners completing her education completely online: meet mikella published on: jul 31, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3768 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we sat down with mikella, a young student from the island of st. lucia. mikella found edx after leaving high school when she was 15, and has been completing her schooling entirely on edx. what program/courses did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i have completed 16 courses on edx including the majority of the harvardx data science professional... read more about completing her education completely online: meet mikella developing deeper knowledge to apply at work: meet tobias published on: jul 10, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3083 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i took the professional certificate program called solar energy in hot desert climates from hbkux in order to gain a deeper knowledge in the specific challenges of pv in a hot and dusty environment. as i am working as an investment manager for renewable energy projects with re:cap global investors... read more about developing deeper knowledge to apply at work: meet tobias reskilling to adapt to changes in his job responsibilities: meet zvonimir published on: jun 26, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2711 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i took the electric cars professional certificate program from tu delft. i am an electrical engineer and work as an energy advisor in regional energy agency north in croatia. since one of the agency’s activities is e-mobility and since we previously purchased nissan leaf through eu project “evcc”, there was... read more about reskilling to adapt to changes in his job responsibilities: meet zvonimir learning flexibly and enriching his on campus experience: meet youssouf published on: jun 18, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2308 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we spoke with youssouf, a third-year undergraduate student in economics and management at the louvain school of management (lsm), about his experience learning on edx. anything you’d like to share about your experience with edx and how it has helped to advance your studies? i discovered louvainx moocs on edx when i found it too difficult to find time to go to class. at that... read more about learning flexibly and enriching his on campus experience: meet youssouf deepening her knowledge of the quality field: meet efi published on: jun 12, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 4397 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? since my graduation from the engineering university, i have worked on 4 different positions at different factories that applied some lean six sigma tools to improve their quality and productivity. as i kept “falling” on them from job to job, it didn’t take me long to realize how these tools... read more about deepening her knowledge of the quality field: meet efi using his micromasters® program certificate to secure a new job: meet anderson published on: jun 05, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3115 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post how did you first learn about edx? i initially learned about the edx platform from a family member who was also introduced to the platform by his job. he forwarded an email from his employer which talked about the classes edx offers and how beneficial it was to employees who wanted to enhance skill set by signing by taking courses on the edx platform. what... read more about using his micromasters® program certificate to secure a new job: meet anderson advancing his career from chemical engineering to data analysis: meet tadro published on: may 29, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 4172 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post tadro, a chemical engineer from australia, shares his experience of taking an edx micromasters® program in big data, and how this helped him move from the field of chemical engineering, into the field of data analysis. how did you first learn about edx? google. i used online search to look for data science master’s programs. this is where i discovered the adelaidex big data... read more about advancing his career from chemical engineering to data analysis: meet tadro gaining confidence at work and remembering his love for learning: meet venkat published on: may 24, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2568 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when i hit 30, it was clear to me that i fully contracted the “middle age syndrome” of poor aptitude to learn new things and inability to hold my concentration more than 3 minutes. i come from a family of teachers and sanskrit scholars where learning, reasoning, and knowledge are highly valued. i felt i dropped the baton. though i had been tinkering with edx... read more about gaining confidence at work and remembering his love for learning: meet venkat page 1 of 22 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 page 5 page list truncated ... » next page last page » search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close