 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog learn wordpress level up your wordpress skills and understand the best practices level up your wordpress skills and understand the best practices anya skrba february 18th, 2019 popular wordpress topics what is wordpress wordpress basics wordpress.com vs.wordpress.org should you use wordpress.com? how to install wordpress.org how to use wordpress wordpress login page/url wordpress dashboard/admin wordpress admin bar wordpress updates posts vs. pages creating a new post categories in wordpress media library new pages in wordpress comments in wordpress appearance: themes installing a new theme appearance: customize wordpress advanced appearance: widgets appearance: menus appearance: header appearance: editor what is a wordpress plugin? installing plugins users roles tools: overview settings: overview permalinks settings wordpress themes best wordpress themes additional resources managed wordpress hosting wordpress vs. squarespace wordpress vs. wix wordpress vs. blogger wordpress vs. tumblr wordpress vs. joomla wordpress vs. drupal recommended wordpress theme how to guides, articles and techniques how to start a blog (wordpress) what to start your own wordpress blog? check out our beginner’s guide and you will be able to set up your own wordpress blog in less than 15 minutes (no technical skills needed). read the guide how to install wordpress self-hosted set up even though wordpress is the most popular content management system, often people don’t know how to get started. this guide will show you how you can easily install it with few clicks. read the guide how to choose the best wordpress hosting to start using wordpress you will have to install it on the server of the web hosting provider of your choice. read this guide and pick the best wordpress hosting services. read the guide how to use wordpress guide once you get your wordpress blog up and running you will need to understand all the functionality that it has to offer. read this guide and learn how to customize your blog, make layout changes, create your first post and much more. read the guide how to maintain wordpress guide from the day one you need to keep your blog neat. read this guide and learn how to master wordpress maintenance processes. wordpress for beginners other resources wordpress security scanner is it wordpress? tool wordpress theme detector tool vulnerable wordpress plugins outdated wordpress plugins wordpress security google analytics for wordpress wordpress seo guide blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.