welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners learner news tips for successful online learning published on: mar 16, 2020 by liz joyce 3301 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re new to online learning, first of all, welcome! learning online is a fantastic way to increase your knowledge and skills in a unique, flexible environment with its own distinct strengths and opportunities. whether you’re trying online classes for the first time or looking for ways to strengthen your current habits and approaches, there are a few key areas to consider to set yourself... read more about tips for successful online learning hybrid jobs: a 4-minute primer on fast-growing, lucrative career paths published on: mar 06, 2020 by liz joyce 2286 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post jobs are mutating to be unexpected, hybrid combinations of skills that burning glass technologies call “the secret of career success in the digital world ahead.” according to their hybrid job economy report, hybrid roles are growing at twice the rate of the overall job market, and are 20-40% higher-paying than their more traditional counterparts. in fact, often, the introduction of a single skill can increase... read more about hybrid jobs: a 4-minute primer on fast-growing, lucrative career paths this mit program is building the next generation of finance leaders published on: mar 04, 2020 by liz joyce 1851 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when asked what the hot topic in finance will be in 2020, paul mende, senior lecturer in the finance group at the mit sloan school of management, says “risk.” “financial markets and the global economy are facing increasing challenges beyond the realm of traditional forecasting and decision-making,” mende said. the challenges of modern global markets and increased opportunity for finance innovation is part of what... read more about this mit program is building the next generation of finance leaders it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business published on: feb 28, 2020 by livia halltari 2426 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a rapidly evolving world, workplaces are changing in ways that affect every aspect of conducting business. from how products are designed to how decisions are made, businesses are becoming more complex and data-driven than ever. this shift is bound to influence everything between your human resources department to information technology. the good news? this change means new emerging opportunities to innovate and find competitive... read more about it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business your next step in business isn’t a new job title, it’s a new lens published on: feb 26, 2020 by liz joyce 1924 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post business classes and degrees traditionally rely on theories developed for a products-based economy and are built in discrete units of accounting, marketing, finance, and so on. meanwhile, the economy has drastically changed. “we’re in a time of profound economic change. and in fact we believe that the economic change today is as big as the economic change a century ago with the rise of giant... read more about your next step in business isn’t a new job title, it’s a new lens the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers published on: feb 20, 2020 by carolyn tiernan 1872 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce the latest company that is collaborating with edx to offer job interviews for micromasters® program completers. to source candidates with data, digital, and strategic skill sets, boston globe media partners (bgmp) is offering job interviews for select micromasters program certificate holders for key roles with its the boston globe, boston.com, and stat brands. the boston globe will grant interviews to... read more about the boston globe to offer job interviews to micromasters® program completers purdue engineering graduate degrees top 2020 national online program rankings published on: feb 20, 2020 by liz joyce 1377 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post online master’s programs continue to become increasingly popular, for their accessibility, flexibility, affordability, and more. in the same way that students look to resources like rankings to help direct on-campus decisions, online program rankings can help to signal schools and programs that offer the academic rigor, quality, and impact that matches your goals. the 2020 best online programs rankings from u.s. news & world report,... read more about purdue engineering graduate degrees top 2020 national online program rankings beyond the buzzword: experts share 3 predictions for ai in the next decade published on: feb 17, 2020 by liz joyce 1559 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post linkedin named artificial intelligence (ai) specialist the #1 emerging job in the u.s. for 2020. the field has been called “the new electricity.” but the transformational impact of electricity took time, and completely new ways of thinking, to achieve. while experts agree that ai will be a game changer, when and how remain open questions. so what is artificial intelligence poised to deliver? what role... read more about beyond the buzzword: experts share 3 predictions for ai in the next decade edx welcomes université de montréal published on: feb 12, 2020 by catherine cho yoo 2142 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are thrilled to announce that université de montréal (udem), one of the top three university research hubs in canada, has joined the edx partner community. udem prides itself on reflecting the city whose name it bears, with its welcoming and multicultural mentality. the university is ranked among the top 100 universities in the world, and among the top five french-language universities. it is particularly... read more about edx welcomes université de montréal the computer science skills you need were just invented published on: feb 10, 2020 by liz joyce 2857 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post computer science isn’t new, but what it looks like is. the computer science skills, languages, libraries, and tools professionals use every day are constantly shifting, now more than ever. it’s a field that demands continuous learning, but that anyone can jump into right away. opportunity is everywhere and endless. “what makes computer science really interesting is the rate at which it changes means that no... read more about the computer science skills you need were just invented page 1 of 73 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 page 5 page list truncated ... » next page last page » search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close