skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: learning center should you rent or buy a house? seems like everyone is buying a condo or house these days. and there are tons of shows on hgtv about renovating your home making you wonder: should you rent or buy a house? can you even afford to buy? we’re here to help you make that decision. ask yourself some… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving what is a barndominium? could it be your next home? choosing the right paint color for every room of your barndominium is easy when you’ve already created the perfect color palette. image courtesy of ppg – modern farmhouse palette. you may be new to the barndominium style, but this pretty and practical home style… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 4 ideas for creative stepping stone pathways if you’re looking for a timeless addition to your yard, consider stepping stone pathways. these add a rustic, natural element that is great for the outdoors. they’re also very versatile in style. many stepping stone pathways are part of a zen style, as these types of yards make great use… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in inspiration here’s why an hvac inspection is worth the cost is an hvac inspection worth the small price now? absolutely, especially when you consider you’re avoiding a big, unexpected repair bill later. during an annual hvac maintenance visit, a licensed ac technician can spot issues and prevent the need for costly repairs. an annual hvac maintenance v… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in heating and cooling container gardens: landscaping for renters completely removable and customizable, a container garden is a renter’s dream. image: oscar wong/getty images we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. so you’re renting. and, sure, that’s g… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in inspiration here’s how much it costs to sell your home in 2020 zillow, the real estate database, released a report showing the hidden costs of selling. so how much does it cost you to sell your house in 2020? get ready to spend about $21,000. don’t balk at the cost yet, though. some of that cost goes toward… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving comps 101: how comparables can help you sell your home so you want to sell your house. you know there are some key things you need to do like stage the interior and work on your curb appeal. you might think, especially if you’re hiring a real estate agent, that everything else… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in moving home-buying millennials are obsessed with lawns and gardens the u.s. census bureau says homeownership is up over last year. in their words, “the national homeownership rate has risen to 64.4 percent.” and realtor magazine says that jump is “largely attributed to the rise in new, first-time homebuyers.” these first-time homebuyers are… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving galley kitchens: pros, cons, and tips whether you’re thinking about remodeling your kitchen or searching for a new home and weighing your options, the kitchen setup is extremely important. and if you cook a lot, the layout of this room really matters. quite a few homes have galley kitchens — and the owners either love them… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in kitchen the murphy bed: now you see it, now you don’t if you need extra sleeping space for guests, futons and sofa beds are two options. but have you ever considered a murphy bed? they’re extremely comfortable and take up zero floor space when not in use. and you can choose one that complements your room’s design. here’s what you need… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in bedroom 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss