skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search learn more about cranky my name is brett snyder, and i am the president and chief airline dork of cranky flier llc. i’ve had the airline bug since i was young. as a kid, i never missed a chance to go to lax and pick up airline timetables. my grandmother even took me to an airport hotel for my birthday one year so i could watch the planes land. by the age of 12, i had become a travel agent. soon after i was volunteering at traveler’s aid. since that time, i’ve worked in several places in the industry. here’s what i’ve done in the past. usair sales intern (1996-1997) america west sales intern (1997-1999) united dulles operations intern (1999) america west pricing analyst/sr analyst/manager (1999-2002) eos intern (2003) united marketing planning product manager (2004-2005) pricegrabber.com business director of travel (2005-2007) today, my main focus is this blog along with my cranky concierge air travel assistance service. i occasionally freelance and consult for other companies, but not for airlines. to see a list of everything i’m doing today, head to my ethics page. if you’d like to send me an email about anything related to the blog or the industry, you can reach me at cf@crankyflier.com. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.