wordpress tutorials for beginners menu create your new blog or website for free let’s go! skip to content search get the most from wordpress.com get going fast: a checklist get your site going: the movie get startedregister and configure basic settings get comfylearn your way around wordpress.com get personalitypick a theme get configuredcustomize your site get publishedcreate posts, pages, and menus get flashyenhance your site with widgets get connectedexplore the community and get noticed get mobileblog on the go get lingo get a homepage blogging university want to start a blogging habit or set up a business website? get step-by-step guidance from wordpress pros, right in your inbox. our email-based wordpress.com courses are free to all and there are no prerequisites. visit blogging university get the most from wordpress.com you’ve got a new site: huzzah! whether you’re a wordpress beginner who wants to become a wordpress.com pro, or just need to learn the basics, you’ve come to the right place. to learn how to make posts, pages, do basic customization, and broadcast your posts on social media, go through this site section by section. here are a few recommended resources to get you up to speed even faster: get going now: a guide to all the basics you need to get up and running immediately. think of it as the quick-start wordpress tutorial you never knew you needed. get a homepage: learn how to turn that blog into a static website for your business or your organization. get lingo: a handy glossary to demystify wordpress terms. if you want more detail on any topic, visit our support site for documentation on every wordpress.com question you can think of (and some you can’t). ready? get started share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to print (opens in new window) more click to share on reddit (opens in new window) blogging university want to start a blogging habit or set up a business website? get step-by-step guidance from wordpress pros, right in your inbox. our email-based wordpress.com courses are free to all and there are no prerequisites. visit blogging university questions? get answers from support print this guide glossary blog at wordpress.com. wordpress.com support wordpress.tv an medley post to cancel send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.