skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more affiliate marketing learn ethical affiliate marketing honest reviews of the products and services you find useful can be a great way to help your audience and generate income. here's how to start. a common path to passive income what is affiliate marketing? affiliate marketing is the process of earning a commission by promoting other people’s (or companies’) products. simply put, you recommend a product or service to your audience. if they buy based on your recommendation, the product owner pays you a cut of what they earned. when done ethically—meaning you only recommend tools you truly believe will help your audience—affiliate marketing is a great way to start generating an income for your business. it's how pat flynn got started with spi—and it can be a great place for you to start, too. a lot of people who give advice on affiliate marketing gloss over the ethics, but we believe strongly that being open and honest with your audience is the key to long-term success. the resources you'll find on this page are dedicated to helping you create a sustainable, ethical affiliate marketing program for your business. on this page, you'll find: a detailed guide to get you started courses designed to help you go deeper our best free articles and tutorials on affiliate marketing our favorite tool for affiliate marketers podcast interviews with successful affiliate marketers free step by step advice our essential guide to affiliate marketing getting started with affiliate marketing doesn't have to be hard. our guide will walk you through the process, step by step. affiliate marketing spi's epic guide to affiliate marketing here's an affiliate marketing secret: if you can become the connector between the audience you're building and the products and… 8 chapters start here courses courses to guide you through the process these essential courses will help you get started, whether you need to create an online presence, test out a business idea, or start your affiliate marketing program. view all courses 1-2-3 affiliate marketing a 3-step system to learn how to generate an income online by recommending products and services that already exist in your marketplace. $699 by pat flynn learn more articles tutorials and case studies these articles, tutorials, and case studies will help you choose the best products and tools to serve your audience. view all articles on affiliate marketing announcing a great affiliate marketing opportunity today i'm announcing a great affiliate marketing opportunity! join the brand new smart podcast player affiliate program and start earning affiliate income! 3 types of affiliate marketing explained—and the one i profit from—updated! affiliate marketing is a large part of the smart passive income business. i'm here to share the three types of affiliate marketing that have worked for me the best. the 2 quickest ways to generate an income online—updated! why reframing “how do i make fast money online?” can help you better understand what it truly means to generate an income online, and how to do so quickly. a letter to all current and future affiliate marketers it's time to rewrite the story on affiliate marketing. that's why i'm launching my brand new course, 1•2•3 affiliate marketing. sign up for the waitlist today! your affiliate marketing questions answered tips for finding products to promote advice for standing out from the crowd tools to help with promotion download the free guide affiliate marketing the smart way success! now check your email to confirm your subscription. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. subscribe in this free guide to increasing your passive income, i answer the most common questions spi readers have about affiliate marketing rules and strategies. podcasts affiliate marketing podcast episodes listen in to hear the best of spi's success stories, case studies, and advice for building and growing an affiliate marketing program. smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads november 22, 2017 spi 293: my top performing affiliate marketing products, and why they performed so well november 8, 2017 spi 291: a blueprint for a successful short-term jv (joint venture) affiliate campaign november 1, 2017 spi 290: affiliate marketing: an insider look at my most successful long-term campaigns december 28, 2011 spi 030: pat's top 30 tips for successful affiliate marketing more episodes recommended tool convertkit convertkit makes communicating with your audience easier, helping you to manage your email list, set up autoresponders, and create automations so easy and user-friendly—that way you can make sure you’re sending the right email to the right person at the right time. it’s the perfect blend of power and simplicity, and it's the best tool for promoting products to your audience. get convertkit $ this is an affiliate link askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads february 7, 2019 ap 1054: how do i diversify my affiliate income in my business? july 26, 2018 ap 1026: how can i monetize my hobby website? can it make money? july 12, 2017 ap 0907: how do i handle negativity towards affiliate marketing? december 10, 2015 ap 0493: should i bother with low value affiliates? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less