home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog i’m a semi-finalist for top fitness blog! march 2, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so excited! this morning i found out that i am one of the semi-finalists in the running for top fitness blogs!!! thank you so much to all of you who voted for live life active!!! this contest is hosted by breakingmuscle.com. i'm beyond excited about this recognition!!! now it's up to the judges to decide who's blog is the best. i'm not begging or anything but.....pick … [read more...] saved by the spray tan march 1, 2012 by erin weiss 8 comments there's nothing that makes me feel better than an awesome leg workout and a fresh spray tan! i kept looking at myself in the mirror at the gym and noticed how ghostly white i was! after my trip to the bahamas, i've really let myself white out! we had a situation on our hands people... luckily for me...i own a spray tanning business and can spray tan myself at home :) i … [read more...] five second rule february 28, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i was feeling refreshed and ready to go last night after my weekend off. i hit the gym and showed my back & bi's some love last night. i completed day 23 of lee labrada's trainer but modified it a little bit. one negative i have found (in my opinion) of lee's program is that it has too many deadlifts and hyperextensions. i have a problem with getting back pain from both … [read more...] insanity – plyometric cardio circuit february 23, 2012 by erin weiss 10 comments well well well.....look what mr. mailman delivered to me yesterday.... insanity! recently i couldn't decide between buying p90x and insanity, but i decided to buy insanity!!!! i chose this route because i want to continue weight lifting but have another option of cardio to supplement my weight training. i get bored with the treadmill. this will also allow me to do … [read more...] where my ladies at? february 22, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments around 3pm yesterday i started to feel some strange chest pains. i rarely get heart burn, however i have gotten it before, so i don't think it was that. it was just a strange tightness in my chest. i started to get worried. i decided i would give the gym a go and see how i felt. i got to the locker room and started getting extremely hot and sweaty. i sat down for a few … [read more...] body fat testing february 21, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i got my body fat tested last night for the first time since i did jamie eason's 12 week livefit program. i bought one of the calipers to test myself via skin fold testing, but i can never seem to do it accurately enough. i really want to do a bod pod but i haven't done that yet. at the gym last night, i requested to have it tested. they had me stand on a machine where i … [read more...] strong is the new black february 20, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fantastic weekend! i started my weekend off with a nice leg workout by completing lee labrada's day 17. here's what i did... exercise set #1 set #2 set #3 leg press: 2 sets of 10-12 reps, 1 set to failure leg extension: 2 sets of 10-12 reps, 1 set to failure seated leg curls: 2 sets of 10-12 reps, 1 … [read more...] don’t pee where you zzzzz february 17, 2012 by erin weiss 3 comments happy friday peeps!!! i wasn't feeling well on wednesday so i took it easy. maybe it was all of the deep dish pizza i scarfed down on valentine's day. i took wednesday off from working out but hit the gym hard again yesterday. i trained chest, shoulders & triceps by doing lee labrada's lean body trainer day 15 & day 16. here's a look at what my training looked … [read more...] heart shaped pizza february 15, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i'd have to say...one of my least favorite things to do is sprints the day after a hard leg workout. my legs were so sore when i went to the gym last night and sprints were one of the things on my to do list. not easy! my legs felt like 3948 lbs! i got through them somehow, though. before sprints, i trained back & bis by completing day 14 on lee labrada's lean body … [read more...] happy hallmark holiday day! february 14, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment happy valentine's day everyone! i hope you're spending the day with your loved ones! i'm personally not a fan of valentine's day at all. i think it's a complete hallmark holiday. my boyfriend and i have never celebrated it big, but this year he said he may have something up his sleeve. i'll let you know tomorrow what it is! i had a few years in college when i was single … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in