menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 legal disclaimer warranty. this site is for entertainment and informational purposes only. while every caution has been taken to provide readers with the most accurate information, readers are using the information on this site at their own risk. any reliance you place on such information is therefore strictly at your own risk. art of manliness will not compensate you in any way whatsoever if you ever happen to suffer a loss/inconvenience/damage because of/while making use of information in this blog. please seek professional advice. updating. art of manliness may keep updating old posts on a regular basis and is not bound to explicitly state all corrections made. privacy policy effective date: november 25, 2019 art of manliness, llc (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates the www.artofmanliness.com website (hereinafter referred to as the “service”). this page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal data when you use our service and the choices you have associated with that data. we use your data to provide and improve the service. by using the service, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. unless otherwise defined in this privacy policy, the terms used in this privacy policy have the same meanings as in our terms and conditions, accessible from www.artofmanliness.com definitions service service is the www.artofmanliness.com website operated by art of manliness, llc personal data personal data means data about a living individual who can be identified from those data (or from those and other information either in our possession or likely to come into our possession). usage data usage data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of the service or from the service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). cookies cookies are small files stored on your device (computer or mobile device). data controller data controller means the natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal information are, or are to be, processed. for the purpose of this privacy policy, we are a data controller of your personal data. data processors (or service providers) data processor (or service provider) means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the data controller. we may use the services of various service providers in order to process your data more effectively. data subject (or user) data subject is any living individual who is using our service and is the subject of personal data. information collection and use we collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our service to you. types of data collected personal data while using our service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“personal data”). personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to: email address cookies and usage data we may use your personal data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. you may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link or the instructions provided in any email we send. usage data we may also collect information on how the service is accessed and used (“usage data”). this usage data may include information such as your computer’s internet protocol address (e.g. ip address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. tracking & cookies data we use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our service and we hold certain information. cookies are files with a small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device. other tracking technologies are also used such as beacons, tags and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyse our service. you can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. however, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our service. examples of cookies we use: session cookies. we use session cookies to operate our service. preference cookies. we use preference cookies to remember your preferences and various settings. security cookies. we use security cookies for security purposes. advertising cookies. advertising cookies are used to serve you with advertisements that may be relevant to you and your interests. use of data art of manliness, llc uses the collected data for various purposes: to provide and maintain our service to notify you about changes to our service to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service when you choose to do so to provide customer support to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our service to monitor the usage of our service to detect, prevent and address technical issues to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive such information legal basis for processing personal data under the general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are from the european economic area (eea), art of manliness, llc legal basis for collecting and using the personal information described in this privacy policy depends on the personal data we collect and the specific context in which we collect it. art of manliness, llc may process your personal data because: we need to perform a contract with you you have given us permission to do so the processing is in our legitimate interests and it is not overridden by your rights to comply with the law retention of data art of manliness, llc will retain your personal data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this privacy policy. we will retain and use your personal data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes and enforce our legal agreements and policies. art of manliness, llc will also retain usage data for internal analysis purposes. usage data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer periods. transfer of data your information, including personal data, may be transferred to – and maintained on – computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ from those of your jurisdiction. if you are located outside united states and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including personal data, to united states and process it there. your consent to this privacy policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer. art of manliness, llc will take all the steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and no transfer of your personal data will take place to an organisation or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information. disclosure of data disclosure for law enforcement under certain circumstances, art of manliness, llc may be required to disclose your personal data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). legal requirements art of manliness, llc may disclose your personal data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: to comply with a legal obligation to protect and defend the rights or property of art of manliness, llc to prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the service to protect the personal safety of users of the service or the public to protect against legal liability security of data the security of your data is important to us but remember that no method of transmission over the internet or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. our policy on “do not track” signals under the california online protection act (caloppa) we do not support do not track (“dnt”). do not track is a preference you can set in your web browser to inform websites that you do not want to be tracked. you can enable or disable do not track by visiting the preferences or settings page of your web browser. your data protection rights under the general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are a resident of the european economic area (eea), you have certain data protection rights. art of manliness, llc aims to take reasonable steps to allow you to correct, amend, delete or limit the use of your personal data. if you wish to be informed about what personal data we hold about you and if you want it to be removed from our systems, please contact us. in certain circumstances, you have the following data protection rights: the right to access, update or delete the information we have on you. whenever made possible, you can access, update or request deletion of your personal data directly within your account settings section. if you are unable to perform these actions yourself, please contact us to assist you. the right of rectification. you have the right to have your information rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete. the right to object. you have the right to object to our processing of your personal data. the right of restriction. you have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal information. the right to data portability. you have the right to be provided with a copy of the information we have on you in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used format. the right to withdraw consent. you also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where art of manliness, llc relied on your consent to process your personal information. please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before responding to such requests. you have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal data. for more information, please contact your local data protection authority in the european economic area (eea). service providers we may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service (“service providers”), provide the service on our behalf, perform service-related services or assist us in analysing how our service is used. these third parties have access to your personal data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purpose. analytics we may use third-party service providers to monitor and analyse the use of our service. google analytics google analytics is a web analytics service offered by google that tracks and reports website traffic. google uses the data collected to track and monitor the use of our service. this data is shared with other google services. google may use the collected data to contextualise and personalise the ads of its own advertising network. you can opt-out of having made your activity on the service available to google analytics by installing the google analytics opt-out browser add-on. the add-on prevents the google analytics javascript (ga.js, analytics.js and dc.js) from sharing information with google analytics about visits activity. for more information on the privacy practices of google, please visit the google privacy & terms web page: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en advertising we may use third-party service providers to show advertisements to you to help support and maintain our service. google adsense & doubleclick cookie google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on our service. google’s use of the doubleclick cookie enables it and its partners to serve ads to our users based on their visit to our service or other websites on the internet. you may opt out of the use of the doubleclick cookie for interest-based advertising by visiting the google ads settings web page: http://www.google.com/ads/preferences/ bing ads bing ads is an advertising service provided by microsoft inc. you can opt-out from bing ads by following the instructions on bing ads opt-out page: https://advertise.bingads.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/policies/personalized-ads for more information about bing ads, please visit their privacy policy: https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/privacystatement admob by google admob by google is provided by google inc. you can opt-out from the admob by google service by following the instructions described by google: https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922?hl=en for more information on how google uses the collected information, please visit the “how google uses data when you use our partners’ sites or app” page: https://policies.google.com/technologies/partner-sites or visit the privacy policy of google: https://policies.google.com/privacy flurry flurry is provided by yahoo! inc. you can opt-out of the flurry service and prevent it from using and sharing your information by visiting the flurry opt-out page: https://developer.yahoo.com/flurry/end-user-opt-out/ for more information on the privacy practices policies of yahoo!, please visit their privacy policy: https://policies.yahoo.com/xa/en/yahoo/privacy/index.htm inmobi inmobi is provided by inmobi pte ltd. you can opt-out from inmobi service by following the instructions as described on the inmobi opt-out page: http://www.inmobi.com/page/opt-out/ for more information on the privacy practices and policies of inmobi, please visit the inmobi privacy policy: http://www.inmobi.com/privacy-policy/ mopub mopub is provided by mobpub inc. you can opt-out from mobpub service by following the instructions on mopub opt-out page: http://www.mopub.com/optout/ for more information on what information mobpub collects and how it is used, please read mopub privacy policy: http://www.mopub.com/legal/privacy/ startapp startapp is provided by startapp inc. you can opt-out from interest-based ads served by startapp by following the instructions on their privacy policy, section “8. your choices and controls”: https://www.startapp.com/policy/privacy-policy/ for more information on what information startapp collects and how it is used, please read their privacy policy: https://www.startapp.com/policy/privacy-policy/ adcolony adcolony is provided by jirbo inc. you can opt-out from adcolony service by visiting the adcolony opt-out page: https://www.adcolony.com/privacy-policy/ you can also opt-out from adcolony through the digital advertising alliance in the usa http://www.aboutads.info/choices/ or opt-out using your mobile device settings. for more information adcolony, please visit the privacy policy of adcolony: http://www.adcolony.com/privacy-policy/ applovin applovin is provided by the applovin corporation. if you’d like to opt-out from applovin service, please visit the applovin opt-out page: https://www.applovin.com/optout if you’d like to learn more about applovin, please visit the privacy policy page of applovin: https://www.applovin.com/privacy vungle vungle is provided by vungle inc. you can opt-out from vungle service by following the instructions as described by vungle on their privacy policy page: http://vungle.com/privacy/ for more information about vungle, please visit vungle privacy policy: http://vungle.com/privacy/ adbutler adbutler is an advertising service provided by sparklit networks inc. for more information about adbutler, please visit their privacy policy: https://www.sparklit.com/agreements.spark?agreement=privacy unity ads unity ads is provided by unity technologies. you can opt-out from unity ads service by following the instructions as described by unity technologies on their privacy policy page: https://unity3d.com/legal/privacy-policy for more information about unity technologies, please visit unity technologies privacy policy: https://unity3d.com/legal/privacy-policy links to other sites our service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. if you click a third party link, you will be directed to that third party’s site. we strongly advise you to review the privacy policy of every site you visit. we have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. children’s privacy our service does not address anyone under the age of 18 (“children”). we do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 18. if you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your child has provided us with personal data, please contact us. if we become aware that we have collected personal data from children without verification of parental consent, we take steps to remove that information from our servers. changes to this privacy policy we may update our privacy policy from time to time. we will notify you of any changes by posting the new privacy policy on this page. we will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the “effective date” at the top of this privacy policy. you are advised to review this privacy policy periodically for any changes. changes to this privacy policy are effective when they are posted on this page. contact us if you have any questions about this privacy policy, please contact us: by email: [email protected] ftc disclosures and relationships the art of manliness does not receive money for paid reviews of products. we will however include affiliate links where we make money if a visitor decides to purchase a product from our link. we provide the following list of sources of income for the art of manliness art of manliness is an affiliate of saddleback leather company. art of manliness is an amazon affiliate and we include links from time to time to amazon products. art of manliness is an affiliate of huckberry art of manliness is an affiliate of the trunk club art of manliness is an affiliate of barbell logic online coaching art of manliness is an affiliate of goruck art of manliness podcast is part of the midroll ad network never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy