evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us legal information legal overview privacy center terms of service user guidelines commercial terms business agreement ip compliance program trademark use information for authorities open source licenses legal document updates privacy center evernote is committed to the privacy and security of your data. our goal is to help you organize, find, and use your data to be your most productive self while respecting your privacy and honoring the commitments we've made in our three laws of data protection. terms of service these are the contractual terms between evernote and users of the evernote service. user guidelines these guidelines explain what not to do on evernote and what kind of user activities may violate our terms of service. commercial terms these are the contractual commercial terms relating to evernote’s paid services. evernote business agreement these are the contractual terms between evernote and evernote business customers. ip compliance program this document describes evernote’s procedures for responding to alleged infringement of intellectual property rights arising from activities of users of the evernote service. trademark use these guidelines are for those who wish to use evernote's trademarks, service marks or images in promotional, advertising, instructional or reference materials, or on their web sites or products. information for authorities this information is designed to assist law enforcement authorities who are seeking to obtain information from evernote. open source licenses documentation and resources. deletion of content explains how users can delete content from their accounts. updates to our legal documents summarizes the most recent changes made to our legal terms. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy