our covid-19 response - we are working tirelessly to provide you with the products necessary to get through this unprecedented time. please click here to read more about our response. search home shop farm, garden & tool animal care apple harvest supplies axes beekeeping supplies camping chickens and chicken accessories composting digging and cultivating emergency supplies farm tools garden accessories hand tools and hardware homesteading lawncare maple syrup making supplies orchard and grove fruit presses maple syrup sugaring supplies pest control seeds and planting wood cutting and hauling health & wellness balms, creams and lotions health remedies grooming and personal hygiene soaps and soapmaking soaps soapmaking supplies shampoo and conditioner clothing and accessories home & décor décor home textiles household cleaning cleaners and polishes cleaning utensils and gadgets household helpers indoor furniture laundry supplies washers and wash day accessories clothesline and clothesline accessories dryers and drying accessories irons laundry soaps and softeners hampers and storage outdoor furniture pet supplies sewing and quilting kitchen & food brewing coffee and tea cast iron cookware cookware cast iron baking supplies pots and pans dinnerware food snacks and sweets pantry meats dry goods and mixes peanut butter & jellies beverages candy popcorn soups freeze dried gluten free food prep choppers and cutters food mills knives, sharpeners and cutting boards measuring food preservation canning water bath canners pressure canners all canners canning accessories jars and jar accessories jar lids and bands fermenting and pickling freezing drying grain mills holiday hosting juicers and steamers kitchen gadgets kitchen accessories cooking and baking helpers kitchen textiles specialty equipment butchering supplies diy cheese and yogurt making butter making ice cream peelers and pitters soda pop and root beer making storage and serving lamps & lighting candles and candlemaking candles candleholders and accessories candlemaking supplies gas lights battery, solar, led camping, barn, outdoors oil lamps table lamps wall lamps hanging lamps olive oil lamps parts and accessories lamp and lantern fuel wicks and mantles chimneys and globes lamp burners and collars lamp shades shade rings and holders electric conversion other parts electric lights stoves cookstoves grilling memphis grills primo grills hearth accessories heatstoves ranges appliances composting toilets refrigerators and freezers water heating and treatment water pumps deep well pumps shallow well pumps pump parts and tools toys, books & games books canning and preserving children's books cookbooks farm and livestock health and wellness heritage and lifestyle home and garden how-to children's toys arts and crafts dolls and doll accessories eli and mattie games and puzzles indoor play outdoor play wooden toys lawn games puzzles table and board games gift cards new top categories snacks & sweets hearth storage & serving cleaning utensils cast iron baking supplies amish made canning supplies sale customer service my account order status shipping returns gift cards contact us privacy about us email sign up 1-800-438-5346 0 shopping cart subtotal: $ view cart continue shopping view cart 0my account quick order email signup gift cards events search search call toll free 800-438-5346 search search farm, garden & tool wood cutting and hauling emergency supplies garden accessories pest control digging and cultivating shop all categories health & wellness health remedies soaps and soapmaking grooming and personal hygiene balms, creams and lotions clothing and accessories shop all categories home & décor décor laundry supplies indoor furniture household helpers home textiles shop all categories kitchen & food canning supplies baking supplies cast iron cookware kitchen gadgets grain mills shop all categories lamps & lighting lanterns candles and candlemaking gas lights battery, solar, led electric lights shop all categories stoves hearth accessories cookstoves heatstoves ranges grilling shop all categories appliances water heating and treatment refrigerators and freezers composting toilets water pumps shop all categories toys, books & games lawn games gift cards puzzles books children's toys shop all categories new sale snacks & sweets hearth storage & serving cleaning utensils cast iron baking supplies amish made canning supplies previous next experts in living a simpler life since 1955 we have over 200 new products, including the hummingbird bottle feeder farm the land the old-fashioned way with the help of simple hand-powered farm tools from lehman's. we know a thing or two about getting the job done right out in the field. besides making your place look better, a proper cleaning should also make it healthier. hand-picked products hand-picked products featured categories cleaning utensils and gadgets wood cutting and hauling hearth accessories storage and serving be prepared, not scared. we're here to help. during complicated times, we want you to know that we can help you live a simpler life. this is the perfect time learn a new skill, plan your garden, and spend time with family (at home, please). read more about a simpler, safer life in our blog. we're open - be safe and stay healthy! in response to the covid19 pandemic: lehmans's retail store is open during the shelter at home ruling by governor mike dewine since we are designated as an essential business. we have shelves full of canned and freeze-dried food, emergency and cleaning supplies and hardware items. we are here to help at our store in kidron, oh from 10am-5pm monday through saturday. our hours may change on short notice. this is a constantly changing situation, we will make every attempt to keep the information on our website current. however, if you are traveling from a distance, we advise calling before you leave. our phone number is 800-438-5346. to learn more about us, click here. want to see the store? take a virtual tour! featured categories cleaning utensils and gadgets wood cutting and hauling hearth accessories storage and serving be prepared, not scared. we're here to help. we're open - be safe and stay healthy! x this site tracks visits anonymously using cookies. close this dialog to confirm you are happy with that, or learn more in our privacy policy. agree and close newsletter sign up for our email newsletter enter email connect online categories categories » farm, garden & tool » health & wellness » home & décor » kitchen & food » lamps & lighting » stoves » appliances » toys, books & games » new join our team » careers customer service » my account » shipping/promo » returns » gift cards » privacy » wire transfer » ca proposition 65 in the smithsonian » learn more visit lehman's » visit our flagship store - kidron, oh » view our store events - family fun events every weekend! » mt. hope hardware - mt. hope, oh for a simpler life » satisfying » understandable » sustainable » comforting company information lehman's 4779 kidron rd., kidron, oh 44618 » about us » lehman's in the news » media kit » blog » giving statement » faq » become an affiliate company information lehman's 4779 kidron rd., kidron, oh 44618 » about us » lehman's in the news » media kit » blog » giving statement » faq » become an affiliate customer service » my account » shipping/promo » contact us » returns » gift cards » privacy » wire transfer » ca proposition 65 in the smithsonian » learn more categories » farm, garden & tool » health & wellness » home & décor » kitchen & food » lamps & lighting » stoves » appliances » toys, books & games » new lehman's locations » visit our flagship store - kidron, oh » view our store events - family fun events every weekend! » mt. hope hardware - mt. hope, oh for a simpler life » satisfying » understandable » sustainable » comforting join our team » careers have an idea for a product? you could win $100! get our catalog want a catalog mailed to you? click here! our guarantee we stand behind our products and want to make sure you are pleased. copyright © 1995-2020 lehman hardware and appliances inc, all rights reserved. designated trademarks are the property of their respective owners. welcome to lehman's, for a simpler life. if you are an american with a disability we offer a toll free disability services phone line at 800-438-5346 during regular business hours and one of our knowledgeable customer service representatives will help you navigate through our website, conduct advanced searches, read you the specifications of any item and consult with you about the products we carry. there is no charge for this assistance for any person with a disability calling from within the united states or canada. finally our customer service representatives will explain our privacy policy and terms of service and take your order if you so desire.