about credit card basics mortgage basics $40k challenge aunt doris grandfather says privacy archives len penzo dot com the offbeat personal finance blog for responsible people. are gas or charcoal grills more cost effective? by len penzo with warmer weather finally here and the recent demise of my old grill, i once again find myself considering one of the great debates of all time: is gas or charcoal better? when it comes to the question of grilling with propane or charcoal, ... continue reading are gas or charcoal grills more cost effective? 52 comments march 23, 2020 the 5 hidden costs of owning rental property by sabado domingo having rental properties gives you a steady flow of income every month. when you are still in the planning phase, you would not even think about the possible costs of owning a rental property. yes, owning a rental property comes with a lot of ... continue reading the 5 hidden costs of owning rental property 1 comment march 27, 2020 7 ways to elevate your forex trading skills by tex freitag in today's digitized world, anyone can become a forex trader as long as they have a computer and internet access. and it's no wonder many people want to do so -- forex trading can be an exciting, educational and profitable activity if you know how to ... continue reading 7 ways to elevate your forex trading skills 1 comment march 27, 2020 how to manage your finances during a depression by enero febrero by all measures, it has been a bad month for the american economy. whether or not we're about to enter a deep full-scale recession -- or possibly even a depression -- isn't quite clear yet. however, it's fairly obvious that the coronavirus pandemic ... continue reading how to manage your finances during a depression 2 comments march 26, 2020 what kind of experience do you need to start trading? by enero febrero anyone can trade, but not everyone can trade successfully. if you want to be a successful trader, it will take time and effort and a lot of practice. you can start out trading with no experience at all, but make sure you have set yourself up with ... continue reading what kind of experience do you need to start trading? leave a comment march 25, 2020 what’s the best way to give a financial gift? by anum yoon when it comes to gifts, we all know it's the thought that counts -- which is why there are certain self-described gift-giving mentors who don't encourage financial gifts. of course, those same folks have probably been on the receiving end of monetary ... continue reading what’s the best way to give a financial gift? 2 comments march 24, 2020 how to withdraw from your 401(k) without losing your savings by barri segal your 401(k) is your retirement plan -- but sometimes you just need to use those funds before you retire. if you make a withdrawal, however, you'll not only reduce your balance, but if you're not 59.5 or older, you'll get an extra 10% penalty fee ... continue reading how to withdraw from your 401(k) without losing your savings 1 comment march 23, 2020 black coffee: the reckoning is here by len penzo it's time to sit back, relax and enjoy a little joe ... welcome to another rousing edition of black coffee, your off-beat weekly round-up of what's been going on in the world of money and personal finance. here we are, more than a fortnight ... continue reading black coffee: the reckoning is here 38 comments march 21, 2020 8 common portfolio protection strategies by len penzo investing is one of the greatest ways to grow your wealth. after all, the long-term average yearly return in the stock market has been around 10% -- and that's way better than any savings account! but as we've all seen, while the market can sometimes ... continue reading 8 common portfolio protection strategies leave a comment march 20, 2020 grandfather says: a few words on our nation’s travails by rd blakeslee len has asked me to write about what i see as the prospects for our nation. if i were a believer in "credentials" i would desist, but i'm not. what i am is a man who has lived his life as independently of current fashion as possible and does not care ... continue reading grandfather says: a few words on our nation’s travails 10 comments march 19, 2020 things you should and shouldn’t consider splurging on by sabado domingo once you have a budget set and you start building up some disposable income, you need to figure out how you're going to use that money. sometimes the perception of money management is that you're on the far end of two spectra. you either live ... continue reading things you should and shouldn’t consider splurging on 1 comment march 18, 2020 short term loans vs. credit cards: which is better? by sabado domingo there are several reasons why you might want to take out a short-term loan or credit card. perhaps you need to pay for an emergency repair, spread the cost of a big purchase, or consolidate your debts into one lump sum to clear them more quickly. ... continue reading short term loans vs. credit cards: which is better? 1 comment march 18, 2020 is it better to borrow from your 401k or take an early withdrawal? by anum yoon in the case of a financial emergency, you might have to dip into your 401k plan to find the money you need. this is never an ideal scenario, as taking money out of such accounts can severely set back progress you've made in saving for ... continue reading is it better to borrow from your 401k or take an early withdrawal? 1 comment march 17, 2020 how i live on less than $45,000 annually: matt from massachusetts by matt my name is matt and i'm a long-time reader of len's blog. after a few years of planning to share my story of living on less than $45,000 a year, i finally came around to actually doing it now that the ol' 2020 budget is set and we're off to the ... continue reading how i live on less than $45,000 annually: matt from massachusetts 5 comments march 16, 2020 black coffee: it’s not a bug, it’s a feature by len penzo it's time to sit back, relax and enjoy a little joe ... welcome to another rousing edition of black coffee, your off-beat weekly round-up of what's been going on in the world of money and personal finance. and the financial crisis rages on, so ... continue reading black coffee: it’s not a bug, it’s a feature 31 comments march 14, 2020 5 ways to eat healthy on a budget by corazon gritar the desire to lose weight and get in shape can be a constant struggle. over the last three decades, the adult obesity rate has more than doubled. turn on the television and you are likely to find any number of advertisements about the newest diet. no ... continue reading 5 ways to eat healthy on a budget leave a comment march 13, 2020 learn how to start trading forex (fast!) by enero febrero according to experts, the forex market is the largest financial market with a trading volume of $5 trillion transactions per day. you might have heardall the buzz about how investors are making millions trading forex. believe it or not, you can grow ... continue reading learn how to start trading forex (fast!) leave a comment march 13, 2020 six ways to turn your home business into an actual company by tex freitag it takes courage to steer off the beaten track and bring a product or service to the market, with no certain assurance that you will make a living from this. suddenly what started out as an ambitious side hustle has gained traction and you are ... continue reading six ways to turn your home business into an actual company 1 comment march 13, 2020 the benefits of tax-advantaged accounts by sabado domingo when it comes to getting your finances in order and planning for your future, the topic of taking advantage of the tax system in your country is rarely brought up. which is odd, as this can substantially improve your financial situation, and help you ... continue reading the benefits of tax-advantaged accounts leave a comment march 12, 2020 why visualizing your financial future is so important – and how to do it by bret there are millions of posts and thousands of books explaining how to improve your finances. in fact, much of this information seems to get recycled back and forth. i have found only a couple of good books and posts that deal with the visualization of ... continue reading why visualizing your financial future is so important – and how to do it 30 comments march 11, 2020 1 2 3 … 112 next page » question of the week: how would you characterize the overall reaction to the coronavirus? pragmatic overblown i'm not sure view results loading ... recent posts the 5 hidden costs of owning rental property 7 ways to elevate your forex trading skills how to manage your finances during a depression what kind of experience do you need to start trading? what’s the best way to give a financial gift? how to withdraw from your 401(k) without losing your savings are gas or charcoal grills more cost effective? black coffee: the reckoning is here 8 common portfolio protection strategies grandfather says: a few words on our nation’s travails disclaimer this site is for informational and entertainment purposes only, and the content herein should not be mistaken for professional financial advice. in fact, making investment decisions based on information published here, or any other website for that matter, is more than unwise; it is folly. this website accepts advertising in the form of monetary and other compensation; as such, topics of discussion are occasionally influenced by these advertisers. sometimes, an article may also include affiliate links, meaning, at no additional cost to you, this blog earns a commission if you click through and make a purchase (for example, as an amazon associate i earn from qualifying purchases). remember, you and you alone are responsible for the decisions you make in life, so please contact an independent financial professional for advice regarding your unique personal situation. popular now: 1. how much gold and silver should people own? 2. gold and silver: the most important insurance we never buy 3. economic collapse 101: ten ways to prepare for the unknown 4. the 50 biggest money mistakes household ceos make 5. 10 key characteristics of debt-free people 6. sneaky price tricks your grocer doesn’t want you to know 7. 10 things most of us can’t live without today — but our grandmas did! 8. how to stop fomo from creating a gaping hole in your budget 9. pizza delivery fees are here to stay (and why it’s all your fault) 10. review: h&r block tax pro review online report this ad all-time most popular: 1. 19 things your suburban millionaire neighbor won’t tell you 2. dear friend: here are 41 reasons why i’m not lending you the money 3. why your expensive luxury car doesn’t impress smart people 4. if you can’t live on $40,000 annually it’s your own fault 5. 21 reasons why corner lots are for suckers 6. 4 smart reasons why college isn’t for everyone 7. 18 fast facts about social security numbers 8. my ketchup taste test: upset! guess which brand topped heinz 9. why i prefer a spreadsheet to track expenses and manage my finances 10. here’s a simple trick for getting credit card interest charges waived copyright © 2020 len penzo dot com · all rights reserved · designed by nuts and bolts media copyright © 2020 · penzo on genesis framework · wordpress · log in