0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 letter to a stranger in 2013, off assignment began asking writers a simple question: "who haunts you?" they responded in droves. they wrote letters. the latest letters sarah rovang to the man named "praise god" sarah rovang “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” sarah rovang fez lavinia spalding to the shopkeeper in fez fez lavinia spalding “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” fez lavinia spalding new york city, new york sarah perry to the man i made into a stranger new york city, new york sarah perry “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” new york city, new york sarah perry jerusalem, israel ruth knafo setton to the nun who locked eyes with me jerusalem, israel ruth knafo setton it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home jerusalem, israel ruth knafo setton sarah ruth bates to the host mother of the do-gooders sarah ruth bates my good intentions could not stock your pantry. sarah ruth bates miraflores, peru kate essig to the fenix who commanded authority miraflores, peru kate essig on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. miraflores, peru kate essig seoul, south korea jim mattson to the woman looking for the hospital seoul, south korea jim mattson you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. seoul, south korea jim mattson berlin, germany leora fridman to the dancer who touched my back berlin, germany leora fridman it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. berlin, germany leora fridman washington, dc mathina calliope to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros washington, dc mathina calliope latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. washington, dc mathina calliope bay islands, honduras alla gonopolsky to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras bay islands, honduras alla gonopolsky i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. bay islands, honduras alla gonopolsky masdal shams, israel sara lieberman to the girls who rescued me from a harrowing hike in israel masdal shams, israel sara lieberman as i look around and imagine my rescue scenario, i fail to notice that i’m bleeding. masdal shams, israel sara lieberman winthrop, washington rebecca agiewich to the guy who saved us from sleeping in our car winthrop, washington rebecca agiewich at least my husband will feel guilty if i get murdered. winthrop, washington rebecca agiewich mitla, mexico amanda spiller to the farmhand in mitla who robbed me mitla, mexico amanda spiller the story of your crime confirmed people’s deepest biases about mexico. mitla, mexico amanda spiller nowhere, south dakota candace opper to the waitress in that south dakota diner nowhere, south dakota candace opper you couldn’t have been more than seventeen. nowhere, south dakota candace opper wuhan, china diana hubbell to the woman crying in the only gay bar in wuhan, china wuhan, china diana hubbell for the city’s few foreigners, wuhan was a good place to get away from something or everything. wuhan, china diana hubbell kampala, uganda raksha vasudevan to the driver in uganda who was not godfrey kampala, uganda raksha vasudevan on the morning of christmas eve, the dry season sun baking kampala’s red soil into hard yellow, we set off in your sky blue sedan. kampala, uganda raksha vasudevan new york city naomi gordon-loebl to the woman whose shoulder i slept on from new york to boston new york city naomi gordon-loebl “just minutes before i’d been celebrating my good fortune at having the only empty seat on the bus next to me; your appearance set off a tiny detonation inside me.” new york city naomi gordon-loebl dallas, texas michelle tea to the girl in the tattoo parlor dallas, texas michelle tea the whole room was like an altar of sorts, and the two of us, past and future, were ready to offer our skin as a sacrifice. dallas, texas michelle tea dakar, senegal emmanuel iduma to the follower of chiekh bamba whom i met in dakar dakar, senegal emmanuel iduma the man’s image showed up on walls, windshields, doors, t-shirts, pendants: on any surface against which belief could be affirmed. i have set the postcard of him above my desk. the photograph is of chiekh amadou bamba, a sufi mystic, and you consider yourself his follower. “i am a muslim only because of him,” you told me. dakar, senegal emmanuel iduma mwira, kenya jennifer acker to the kenyan doctor who saved me from meningitis mwira, kenya jennifer acker we lived in mud huts without running water or electricity, just like our host families. we bathed in water boiled for us each morning by our host families. we ate meals with, and prepared by, our host families. at this, you scowled and shook your head. mwira, kenya jennifer acker la paz, bolivia anna vodicka to the roomful of travelers watching american reality tv la paz, bolivia anna vodicka they say that after a rain, a glassy surface of water settles over bolivia’s salt flats, converting the land into the world’s largest mirror. i imagine the brujas, with their black braids and bowler hats, have something to do with this, holding a looking glass to the world. it takes a courage i didn’t have to gaze into it. la paz, bolivia anna vodicka salt lake city, utah greg marshall to my big-haired boss who made me come out door to door salt lake city, utah greg marshall you were like a boss from a blooper reel: bizarre, tragic, easy to play for laughs. salt lake city, utah greg marshall antarctica carin clevidence to the antarctic researcher with the photograph on his desk antarctica carin clevidence going to antarctica seemed like a dereliction of duty, or an attempt at escape. nonetheless the tickets had been bought months before. staying would not bring him back. antarctica carin clevidence washington d.c. rachel swearingen to the woman who found me crying outside the senate washington d.c. rachel swearingen i’m seventeen, not old enough to vote, but i campaign for men who drink highballs, who call me “little lady” and pat me on the head, saying, “you better watch out for this one. she’s after your job.” washington d.c. rachel swearingen merida, mexico emer martin to the woman who led us into the mouth of the jaguar merida, mexico emer martin i heard your voice before i saw you. you didn’t ask me if i was ok. you just began a conversation, as if we had been talking for a long time. you took my daughter’s hand, and you told me the entrance to ek balam’s temple was just a few steps away. merida, mexico emer martin beyoğlu, turkey michael agresta to the waiter in beyoglu who left me a tip beyoğlu, turkey michael agresta pamuk, to his credit, understood the rarity of his good fortune and set out to do something purposeful with it. after collecting his loot, he conceived of a fictional project that actually, for once, merited the designation of “novel,” in the adjectival sense of the word, as something had never been tried before. beyoğlu, turkey michael agresta oaxaca, mexico sarah menkedick to the woman who spared me an orange oaxaca, mexico sarah menkedick still, even as early motherhood plunged me into full-body, full-time fear, i wanted my baby to know the wild openness of travel: bus rides deep into the mountains, a tiny village down a dirt road, turkey calls, coffee and beer at shared tables with strangers. oaxaca, mexico sarah menkedick pushkar, india marc fitten to the taxi driver who got me blessed pushkar, india marc fitten and in the dead center of the lake is a dais with a shrine to brahma—the most powerful god of the trinity—the god of all creation. he is stuck there. pushkar, india marc fitten las piramides, guatemala alla gonopolsky to the guy in guatemala who nearly untied my tongue las piramides, guatemala alla gonopolsky if i’d been wearing one of those adorable mini chalkboards around my neck like people in movies wear when they take a vow of silence, perhaps i would scribble hello, handsome stranger along with a brief explanation. it’s not you, it’s my silent retreat. las piramides, guatemala alla gonopolsky cox's bazar, bangladesh hailey sadler to the rohingya woman who showed me her bullet wound cox's bazar, bangladesh hailey sadler “she is precious,” i say. “do you have any other children?” normally, this would be an innocuous question. here, in these close, human-crammed camps of families fleeing unspeakable horrors, it’s the kind of query that unlocks a story. cox's bazar, bangladesh hailey sadler read more listen on soundcloud get the "dear stranger" newsletter. each week, a real letter in your inbox. email address write me thank you! "...and writing is, in the end, that oddest of anomalies: an intimate letter to a stranger." —pico iyer © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com