menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “letting go” how i overcame my anger to be better for my family by stephanie weiderstrand “where there is anger, there is always pain underneath.” ~eckhart tolle as a special-needs parent, it feels that i am in constant anger and fight mode. i am fighting with my children on the home front. i am fighting for … deep down you know when it’s time to let go by christine rodriguez “holding on is believing that there’s only a past; letting go is knowing that there’s a future.” ~daphne rose kingma one of the most challenging things in life is knowing when to let go—when to let go of a … dealing with online hate: what to do when people are mean by tanwi dixit “the less you respond to negative people, the more peaceful your life will become.” ~unknown i work for a website that creates videos on lifestyle, fashion, food, travel, fitness, and more. our channel has a massive following from all walks … 10 things i’ve let go and how this has set me free by sara fabian “i do not fix problems. i fix my thinking. then problems fix themselves.” ~ louise hay looking back on my life, i came to understand that perfection was my worst enemy. i was raised in an environment of high expectation… how i found the gift in my pain and let go of resentment by jamie hannigan “change is inevitable, growth is intentional.” ~glenda cloud how much time slips by when you’re living in the pain of resentment? do you ever question if your bitterness has held you back from living your true destiny? is blaming everyone … 5 powerful mindset shifts to stop worrying about what other people think by sandy woznicki “care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner.” ~lao tzu we carefully pick out what we wear to the gym to make sure we look good in the eyes of the other gym goers. we … acceptance is not passive; it’s the path to peace by shunya anding “the price of our vitality is the sum of all of our fears.” ~david whyte acceptance by its very nature is imperfect; it’s messy and often unpleasant, while ultimately leading to a place of growth, a sense of freedom, and … the art of slow living: how to reclaim your peace and joy by rebecca flasz “in today’s rush, we all think too much, seek too much, want too much and forget about the joy of just being.” ~eckhart tolle we’re going to start with a visualization exercise. set a timer for one minute, close your … how to stop feeling consumed by your fear of being alone by sonya barrett “pain makes you stronger. fear makes you braver. heartbreak makes you wiser.” ~unknown you wake up and check your phone expecting a “good morning” text, but there’s nothing there. going through your day, everything feels quieter and there’s a gaping … how i climbed out of the valley of loss and healed by jenn maronek “in our lives, change is unavoidable, loss is unavoidable. in the adaptability and ease with which we experience change lies our happiness and freedom.” ~buddha the universe was conspiring against me, i was sure of it. by the time i … free up your space: two simple questions for easy decluttering by kelly ramsdell “owning less is better than organizing more.” ~joshua becker there are lots of reasons to declutter—to free up space, to pare down belongings in advance of a move, to release any possessions that weigh you down emotionally, and to make … why i won’t just “let go” of the hurt in my heart by cassandra moore “it’s not a matter of ‘letting go.’ you would if you could. instead of ‘let it go’ we should probably say ‘let it be.’” ~jon kabat-zinn i’m not good at heartbreak. i wrestle the circumstances, hate it, and can’t let … how to journal away your disappointment in yourself by silvia bastos “forgive yourself for not knowing better at the time. forgive yourself for giving away your power. forgive yourself for past behaviors. forgive yourself for the survival patterns and traits you picked up while enduring trauma. forgive yourself for being who … it’s more important to be authentic than impressive by clarabel sage “the most fundamental harm we can do to ourselves is to remain ignorant by not having the courage to look at ourselves honestly and gently.” ~pema chödrön all my life i’ve chased after success, as i was encouraged to do … i thought it was love, but it was actually abuse by halema khan “alone doesn’t always mean lonely. relationship doesn’t always mean happy. being alone will never cause as much loneliness as being in the wrong relationship.” ~unknown i don’t know if it’s the conditioning of disney movies that makes every young girl … how to free yourself from your spiritual drama by alison kate “you have no friends. you have no enemies. you only have teachers.” ~ancient proverb my very wise aunt, a talented psychotherapist and one of my spiritual teachers, has told me many times that the people, places, and things that trigger … how to free yourself from the burden of your potential by abby krom “changing directions in life is not tragic. losing passion in life is.” we all have natural talents, and in some cases, we may have devoted years to honing our skills and turning them into a career. as we’re on the … why i’m at peace with my weight gain by ginelle testa “resistance keeps you stuck. surrender immediately opens you to the greater intelligence that is vaster than the human mind, and it can then express itself through you. so through surrender often you find circumstances changing.” ~eckhart tolle i took … why my abuse is no longer a secret by iva ursano “you own everything that happened to you. tell your stories. if people wanted you to write warmly about them, they should have behaved better.” ~anne lamott to say i had a tough life would be a gross understatement. growing up … the best thing to say to someone who won’t understand you by lori deschene “true love is born from understanding.” ~buddha i believe one of our strongest desires in life is to feel understood. we want to know that people see our good intentions and not only get where we’re coming from but get … page 1 of 3012345...102030...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top