skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about all letters log in register search go letters letters sent by or to samuel pepys. numbers in brackets indicate quantity of annotations. 27 apr 1665, samuel pepys to john evelyn (2) from a letter this day come to my hand from a shipp of ours (the little guift) that in a conflict with a hollander on the irish coast (wherein shoe though much over matched hath acquitted her selfe very well)… 1 may 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) my absence neere 30 miles from my house, when your letter came thither, will, i hope, excuse the slow returne of this answer: sir, there is neither in our commission, or instructions the least mention made of any provision for… 9 aug 1665, samuel pepys to john evelyn (0) i am once more to trouble you with my old question concerning the provision made for the sick and wounded seamen in ireland, for that a charge is and hath for a good while beene running on at kinsale in… 23 sep 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) there are divers miserably sick prisoners at wollwich, especialy in this bearers ship: if they could be conveyd downe to our fly-boates before gravesend, our chirurgeon there might looke after them; and they have also a guard; but you know… 26 sep 1665, samuel pepys to john evelyn (0) as i will in every thing else, soe i have in your request this afternoone done what you with any moderate reason can expect of mee. but i beseech you consider that what i have done reaches but for foure… 29 sep 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) this being but an iteration of what was orderd on thursday, when we were with his grace, i cannot divine how it comes to be repeated; but being told it was brought hither by two captaines (in my absence this… 30 sep 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) the inclos'd had kiss'd your hands before this, had not the most infinite trouble of other dispatches in order to your commands, hindred mee, and the present necessities of sending orders to woolwich and the places adjacent, for the quartrg… 3 oct 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i was in some doubt whither those letters you commanded me to prepare, ariv'd timely enough to accompany yours to court on saturday-night; for finding divers chyrurgeons, and sick-persons at my dores who had come from several places with sad… 12 oct 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) this enclos'd from his grace2 concernes the whole fleete so neerely: that (after our former attempts) we are even forc'd to renew our petition for prevention of the mischeife which now threatens more then ever, and especialy at chatham. i… 13 oct 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i am this afternoone to send away £1000 to deale and dover with a guard, not having been able to find any opportunity of returning the mony otherwise; which will make me so unmanerly, as not to be able to… 14 oct 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) by what i have sent you, you will have a specimen of the method observed where i have any-thing to do. if the heads be not particular enough, be pleas'd to give me your instructions where i may pertinently add:… 23 oct 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) yours of the 17th instant i found at my returne from leades, and kentish circle, requiring an accoumpt of what sea-men have been sick on shore? the ships whence they came? and the place to which? with other particulars to… 4 nov 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i have six or seaven men who have spent us a greate deale of mony, and care at deale, who are likely never to be cured, having some of them been dissmembrd2, others dissabl'd by ulcerate sores of inveterate malignity,… 23 nov 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i am but just now ariv'd; of which i will give you no farther account at present, because the post shall not goe without the direction you require, though it be not so particular as i could wish it: the… 7 dec 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) forgive me that i beg the favour of having these letters convey'd to the post by your ordinary messenger this evening: and that i do not let slip this opportunity of bespeaking your assistance and advice where i am to… 9 dec 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) your letter of the 7th concerning our prisoners in the golden-hand and prince william came not an houre since to me; by what neglect i know not: i have sent to my martiall at leeds, to be here on moneday… 12 dec 1665, samuel pepys to john evelyn (0) his royal highness hath commanded, that the golden hand and prince william be imediatly sent to new castle to fetch coales for the poore of the citty of london: i doe therefore entreat you that if they have any dutch… 13 dec 1665, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) being now willing to remove not onely the prisoners out of the golden-hand, and prince william (according to the command) but likewise to cleere all the shipps at once, that so you may be at full liberty for the future… 31 jan 1666, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i do, according to your commands, transmit you an hasty draught of the infirmary, and project for chatham; the reasons, and advantages of it, which challenges your promise of promoting it to the use design'd: i am, my selfe, convinc'd… 17 feb 1666, samuel pepys to john evelyn (1) to tell you a litle more perticularly then i could in the middle of much businesse this morning my proceeding towards the advancement of your soe laudable designe of publique infirmarys i did the very next meeting after your honouring… 17 feb 1666, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) his majestie was well pleas'd with what i shew'd him of our infirmary for chatham, which he gave me leave to explaine to him at large: if you have thought it worthy your recommendation to his royal highnesse i would… 28 feb 1666, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i had immediately yealded obedience to your commands in going downe to chatham, and prepard what was necessary to put that affaire in some forwardnesse, if i could have receiv'd the monyes which i have long expected that must enable… 26 mar 1666, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) if to render you an account of the progresse of my late proposal, be any testimony of my obedience to your commands; be pleas'd to believe, that i most faithfully present it in these papers according to the best of… 26 mar 1666, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i know not with what successe i have endeavourd to performe your commands; but it has ben to the uttmost of my skill, of which you are to be my judges: the favour i bespeake of you is, your pardon… 20 jan 1668, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i am heartily asham'd i could not performe your commands before now: it was friday 'ere i could possibly get home, and since i am here, i have ben so afflicted with the griping of the gutts, that i was… 8 feb 1668, samuel pepys to john evelyn (0) you will not wonder at the backwardness of my thankes for the præsent you made mee soe many days since of the prospect of medway, while the hollander rode master on't, when i have seriously told you, that the sight… 1 jul 1669, samuel pepys to capt. thomas elliot (0) upon the late arrival of the news of sir robert brookes's death who served as one of the burgesses for the town of aldeburgh, his royal highness was pleased upon considerations of his own to command me to endeavour after… 21 aug 1669, john evelyn to samuel pepys (0) i send you my rhapsodies; but know, that as soon as i had set pen to paper, i was diverted by a thousand accidents; then follow'd mr cowley's funeral, but i sneak'd from church, and when i came home (which… 2 nov 1669, samuel pepys to john evelyn (2) i begge you to beleive that i would not have beene ten daies returned into england without waiting on you, had it not pleased god to afflict mee by the sickness of my wife, who, from the first day of… 6 jan 1670, samuel pepys to the brooke house commissioners (0) your lordships' silence to what i (now some weeks since) presented you with relating to the common defence of this office, joined with what hath lately come to my notice touching your acceptance of separate answers on the same subject… 8 jan 1670, samuel pepys to charles ii (0) your majesty's having been pleased with one hand to receive what has been offered you in charge against the officers of your navy, i cannot without offence to your justice doubt your vouchsafing me the other, for what in most… 3 mar 1670, samuel pepys to capt. thomas elliot (0) i beg you earnestly to believe that nothing but the sorrow and distraction i have been in by the death of my wife, increased by the suddenness with which it pleased god to surprise me therewith, after a voyage so… 26 mar 1670, samuel pepys to sir richard browne (0) i have a sudden occasion offered me of asking your friendship, as well as a full assurance that i shall. 'tis this: mr ascew, clerk of trinity house, is dead. i have a brother of my own (john pepys), whose… 26 mar 1670, samuel pepys to john pepys (brother) (0) something hath offered itself which may prove of advantage to you, that makes it necessary for me to have you here on tuesday night next. it is an employment into which some or other must be elected on wednesday morning.… 2 may 1670, samuel pepys to anthony deane (0) i have yours of the 28th of the last with the enclosed particulars relating to the office of the ordnance, and shall in that, as well as in what respects our own office, endeavour to procure you all the satisfaction… 11 jun 1670, balthazar st michel to samuel pepys (0) this comes humbly to acquaint you that yesterday sailed out of the downs the falcon and speedwell (bound for the river thames), and that i have a perfect muster-book from the purser of the falcon now, who brought it me… 9 nov 1670, matthew wren to samuel pepys (0) his majesty having accidentally heard of some dispute between you and the resident of sweden, to prevent any further inconvenience that may happen, has by my lord arling-ton principal secretary of state signified his pleasure to me, to require you… 22 jun 1672, samuel pepys to balthazar st michel (0) i came last night home from the fleet, where i have spent about five days. i thank god i am well, saving some little disorder an un-easy lodging for so many nights hath given me. at my coming back i… 14 aug 1672, balthazar st michel to samuel pepys (1) you daily and hourly so comble me with (not only expressions but also) deeds of your worthiness, and goodness, as well to myself, as the rest of your most devoted humble creatures here, that i am (as well as my… 14 aug 1672, henry savile to samuel pepys (0) his royal highness has commanded me to write to you to send away with all possible dispatch to southwold bay the shallop that he ordered should be made for monsieur le comte d'estrées, that he may have it ready for… 20 aug 1672, samuel pepys to lord henry howard (0) having by his royal highness's appointment understood his highness's recommending me with success to your lordship for the burgess-ship of rising, upon the expected removal of sir robert paston to the house of lords, i hold it my duty to… 31 aug 1672, thomas povey to samuel pepys (0) i had this morning full discourse with the lord howard, who was telling me how he finds himself oppressed with his prerogative of recommending on elections: and how he stands engaged to the king for sir francis north, to the… 2 sep 1672, samuel pepys to henry savile (0) i am surprised with the coming back to my hand of a packet directed to you so long ago as you will find by its date to burlington bay, occasioned (i suppose) by the fleet's departure thence, and its being… 17 sep 1672, samuel pepys to henry savile (0) enclosed are the accompts his royal highness expects from me for the use of the comte d'estrées, viz., one of the gratuities given by the king to the relations of persons slain in his service at sea. concerning which i… 17 sep 1672, samuel pepys to col. thomas middleton (0) these are only to acquaint you, that by several express commands from his majesty, the enclosed ought to want no possible care in its dispatch to him; it being intended (as i suppose) for the use of the comte d'estrées… 17 sep 1672, samuel pepys to james southerne (0) in answer to your letter of the 14th, the rate his majesty pays to seamen for short-allowance at 6 to 4, is twopence per diem, it being not the practice of the navy to put seamen to any broken proportion… 8 feb 1673, balthazar st michel to samuel pepys (0) in answer to yours of last night which received this morning at 8 of the clock: i wonder indeed that you, whoose life and conversation, hath bine ever knowne to be a ferme protestant, shoold now be caled in question… 14 apr 1673, thomas hill to samuel pepys (0) next to the letters from those excellent ladies, we both admire, i never received any with so much ravishing delight at yours of the 10th of october. little did i think that the curse i cast on you in drollery… latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site