we're using cookies to improve your experience. click here to find out more. hidden main menu item mashable video entertainment movies gaming television culture web culture sex & relationships celebrities memes parenting social media tech business apps gadgets reviews mobile smart home how to mashable choice science climate space social good lgbtq feminism gender equality activism non-profits shop tech vpn headphones speakers laptops web hosting antivirus lifestyle home kitchen gift guides gaming culture dating pets subscription boxes carry on best of tech best vpn best cheap vpn best streaming services best cheap laptops best running headphones best bluetooth speakers best of culture best dating sites best free dating sites best dating sites for introverts best dna tests best dog dna tests best subscription boxes best of lifestyle best airfryer best cordless vacuum best instant pot best gifts under $50 best robot vacuums best vacuum for pet hair sign in follow mashable like follow mashable rss feed email subscriptions see more > search more channels video entertainment culture tech science social good company masthead licensing & reprints archive mashable careers contact contact us submit news mashable shop advertise advertise adchoices legal privacy policy terms of use cookie policy accessibility statement do not sell my personal info resources travel security how to mashable deals gift guides sites job board social good summit international mashable australia mashable india mashable me mashable se asia mashable uk lgbtq image: illustration: bob al-greene / mashable culture jameela jamil, bisexuality, and the anxiety of not feeling 'queer enough' written by anna iovine 29 days ago if you're queer and have ever felt not "queer enough," you're not alone. featured image: left: getty images; right: queers against pete culture queers against pete highlights the lgbtq community's frustration with buttigieg written by anna iovine about 1 month ago “he doesn’t want to listen to us. he's literally going out of his way to not listen to us.” bubble tea is among the 62 new emoji coming in 2020. image: emoji consortium / mashable composite tech at long last, there's a bubble tea emoji written by haidee chu about 2 months ago and a transgender flag emoji (!!) google sponsored san francisco pride's parade last year. now there's drama over whether it should be able to participate in this year's festivities. image: meera fox / getty images social good san francisco pride's ban on google, youtube gets noped by the lawyers written by natasha piñon 2 months ago they cite the number of members present for the vote. slawson uses her platform to advocate for mental health issues. image: austin ryde social good first openly bisexual contestant to compete in miss usa pageant written by natasha piñon 2 months ago she advocates for mental health causes, too. latest the resolution received seven votes from the organization's over 300 members. image: arun nevader / getty images social good sf pride voted to ban google, youtube. but it's more complicated than that. written by natasha piñon 2 months ago seven out of more than 300 members have voted. entertainment get goosebumps with the trailer for apple's docuseries about being lgbtq on tv written by caitlin welsh 2 months ago "when you see images that are reflective of your own life, it's a reminder to you that your life matters." culture youtuber nikkietutorials comes out as trans written by anna iovine 2 months ago "i am free, and today i get to be me." a vote for the importance of inclusive language. image: bob al-greene / mashable social good 'they' is the word of the decade written by jess joho 3 months ago a vote for the importance of inclusive language. american airlines is the second u.s. airline to give customers non-binary gender booking options. image: greg k__ca / shutterstock social good american airlines now offers non-binary gender options when you book a flight written by siobhan neela-stock 3 months ago transgender and gender nonconforming people can be subject to humiliating and invasive searches at airports if their ids don't match their outward appearance. what's hot ← previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 131 next → masthead jobs advertise subscribe mashable shop contact privacy terms facebook mashable twitter mashable feeds mashable pinterest mashable youtube mashable stumbleupon mashable linkedin mashable mashable is a global, multi-platform media and entertainment company. powered by its own proprietary technology, mashable is the go-to source for tech, digital culture and entertainment content for its dedicated and influential audience around the globe. ©2020 mashable, inc. all rights reserved. mashable, mashbash and mashable house are among the federally registered trademarks of ziff davis, llc and may not be used by third parties without explicit permission.