menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies libra libra this is how a libra wants to be fucked anonymous 11 things you need to know before you date a libra chrissy stockton everything you need to know about the libra in your life january nelson 16 ways dating a libra woman will set your life on fire brianna wiest 11 things you should know about a libra before dating one emma sarran 14 things every girl should know before dating a libra man astrid rain how to date a libra almie rose latest libra articles to love a libra is to love all of her kelly peacock “ to love a libra is to love love itself. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. 14 paradoxes of life as an infj libra woman lark morrigan “ what about an infj woman who’s also a libra? 8 little ways a libra woman will capture your heart michelle marshall “ she is chill af. cancer, leo, virgo, and libra: the givers of the zodiac mary angel “ virgo: the most selfless of all the givers. don’t fall in love with a libra kirsten corley “ don’t fall in love with a libra unless you are okay with letting them be the center of attention. here’s what a libra really thinks of you, based on your zodiac sign joey hung & thomas lim “ what does your libra friend actually think about you?? this is what it’s really like to be a libra isobel pareja “ she can stand on her own, everyone believes that, but she doubts herself. they don’t know her the way she knows herself. this is how a libra wants to be fucked anonymous “ luring a libra begins with the mind. as one of three air signs of the zodiac, libra needs to connect mentally before anything else. 11 things you need to know before you date a libra chrissy stockton “ libras are the perfect person to date if you are looking for a partner in crime to take over the world with. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.