newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close life 7 habits you need to start (right now) if you suspect someone in your home is sickliving here are seven steps the centers for disease control and prevention recommends if you’re living in the same home as a sick person. ashley abramson 11 (new-to-them) activities apartment therapy staffers have tried out while staying at homeliving we're getting creative, to say the least! nicoletta richardson yesterday i’ve never appreciated smart home devices more than i do right nowliving it cuts down on the "high touch" areas at home. tara bellucci yesterday our favorite amazon alternatives you can shop from right nowliving with amazon shipping experiencing major delays, here's where to shop instead. nicole lund yesterday how to be really good at jigsaw puzzles—plus, 6 to buy right nowliving a beginner's guide to doing—and loving—puzzles that'll have you finishing 1,000 piecers in no time! terri pous yesterday how to socially distance when your home feels unsafeliving whether it’s a bad marriage, a toxic parent, an abusive relationship, or something else, home isn’t an equally safe refuge for all. mekita rivas yesterday why it’s so hard for you to finish even the smallest half-done home projectsliving i have the pulls, i have the dresser, i have the screwdriver, and i have the time. but i haven’t been able to find one thing to get the job done: the motivation to simply do it. gray chapman yesterday here’s how to work from home with your partner, kids, roommate, or parentsliving regardless of the household dynamic, one thing is for certain: working from home together isn't always easy. nicoletta richardson 2 days ago the best meal kit delivery services for right nowliving they're all still making things work, despite what's going on in the world, and taking precautions to keep everyone safe. danielle centoni 2 days ago 4 reasons why you should keep your daily routines when working from homeliving it could help your productivity, among other things. inigo del castillo 3 days ago the best ways to get beer, wine, and alcohol delivered to your door — asapliving for all of your virtual happy hour needs... lisa freedman 3 days ago this $40 amazon find makes working from home with a roommate so much easierliving it's for you if you truly have no space to spare for a home office. emma glubiak 3 days ago 4 simple habits of people who always go to bed on timeliving sleep procrastination is a real thing. here's how to stop. ashley abramson 3 days ago these satin pillowcases can change how you sleep—and cost $10 a set!living steal a little bit of luxury — and some zzz’s — with this affordable set. cara lynn shultz mar 23, 2020 10 at-home spa & beauty products for when you can’t leave the houseliving in case you're missing those regular salon trips. kelsie schrader mar 23, 2020 how to sleep in the midst of a global pandemicliving if you feel like you're sleeping worse than ever, you're not alone. laura schocker mar 22, 2020 30 (mostly free) things to do when you’re bored at homeliving before you let your lethargy get the best of you, remember that boredom is a choice, not a sentence. caroline biggs mar 21, 2020 this folding chair is perfect for working from home in a tiny spaceliving just fold it up and put it away when you're done. nicole lund mar 20, 2020 everything at anthropologie is 25% off this weekend, including these little luxuriesliving time to take your self-care game to the next level. nicole lund mar 20, 2020 12 apps that help you stay connected while social distancingliving here's how to keep in touch. arielle tschinkel mar 20, 2020 94 great things to do at homeliving here is a long list of seize-the-day, great things to do at home to save you from lackluster days of not knowing what to do with yourself. shifrah combiths mar 19, 2020 check out these netflix comedies, because we’re all in need of a good laughliving if you’re looking for feel-good, laugh-worthy netflix movies to watch while social distancing, we’ve got you covered. olivia harvey mar 18, 2020 13 exercises you can literally do without leaving your bedliving introducing the workout of our dreams. diana kelly mar 18, 2020 the best bedding to get now if you have allergiesliving ease your sniffles while you sleep. kelsie schrader mar 18, 2020 the free “video voicemail” app that helps me stay in touch with my long-distance best friendliving marco polo has given me a way to hold special people close in my life regardless of our physical distance. shifrah combiths mar 18, 2020 how to stay connected with people if you’re stuck at homeliving thank god for facetime and video calling. terri pous mar 17, 2020 i tried 5 home office tips to make me more productive—and here’s what workedliving most of them are tiny changes that cost no money at all, and all of them helped me feel more productive, settled, and happy with my at-home work environment. olivia muenter mar 17, 2020 a special letter from the editor: what home means nowliving at apartment therapy, our mission has always been to help people create safe, comfortable, and supportive homes. but that message has felt especially relevant in the past week, as the covid-19 outbreaks have upended our habits and rhythms. there are so many uncertainties right now, but there’s one thing we know for sure: home is more important than ever. laura schocker mar 15, 2020 this custom pillow might just change your life—and at readers get an exclusive discountliving the hunt for the perfect pillow ends here. nicole lund mar 14, 2020 all the books the apartment therapy team is reading while we’re staying homeliving time to finish all those books on your nightstand. nicole lund mar 14, 2020 13 tips that’ll make working from home feel slightly more productiveliving 1. open your windows. terri pous mar 13, 2020 experts pick the very best board games for families, adults, couples, or anyone!living whether you’re planning a get-together in your home or you’re looking for something to do on a rainy day, look no further than these expert-picked favorites, curated by category to simplify the process. ashley abramson mar 13, 2020 the counterintuitive way my family saves $100 a month on our monthly billsliving month after month, i would look at my bank statement and resolve to spend less on food. the solution to that problem? accepting reality. ashley abramson mar 10, 2020 the best small dogs for apartments, according to a dog trainerliving looking for a pup that will thrive in a small space or hankering for a lap dog? ashley abramson mar 7, 2020 everyone should own this cast iron skillet — and it’s only $20living snag the classic kitchen must-have that's up for any task! sholeen damarwala mar 6, 2020 i tried parachute’s new bath towel, and it’s the goldilocks of towelsliving it's the perfect amount of fluffiness. nicole lund mar 5, 2020 the diy sanitizer recipes you’re seeing everywhere don’t work—here’s the right way to do itliving some people are taking sanitizing matters into their own hands (pun intended). here's why that won't work. ashley abramson mar 5, 2020 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc