call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact there are many moments throughout your life that you may need to seek an independent financial advisor. no matter where you are on life’s journey, you’ll want to look after yourself and those who depend on you for financial support – your children, your spouse and perhaps even your parents in later life. focusing on your own finances, understanding how your money is looked after and planning your financial security is a really good way to be confident that you’re best prepared for the future. unfortunately, it’s usually the tough times that make us question our financial situation the most. a divorce or bereavement for example will always bring the importance of financial planning sharply into focus. on the other hand, there are also good times to think about. getting married, job promotions, having children or planning a sabbatical are all good reasons for checking that you have your financial matters in hand. the most common life events for which people seek financial advice from me are: buying your first home buying a subsequent home starting a pension and planning for retirement investing in buy to let property estate and later life planning at any significant moment in life, it is important to think about the financial implications. some common questions i can help you with: how can you make sure your money works as hard as possible? what can you do to ensure your family’s financial security now and in the future? what is the best way to set up your pension to prepare for your retirement? i can offer financial advice at all of life’s key decision points, not just the more obvious ones. please contact me to make an appointment. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.