bustle lifestyle love to cancel plans? sorry, social distancing's making that impossibleby iman hariri-kia all levels welcome finding a good personal trainer is as important as finding a therapist by jay polish gyms & classes are expensive. these workout hacks aren’tby jay polish what experts want you to know if yoga triggers gender dysphoria for youby jay polish 7 steps to creating a working relationship with your personal trainerby jay polish trainers explain what a body-positive fitness space actually looks likeby jay polish all levels welcomeexplore is the sleep industry a waste of your money?by ashley mateo these comfy dog beds are designed to calm your anxious pup if your dog is prone to anxiety or reactivity, especially when left alone, when meeting new visitors, or even during thunderstorms, giving them one the best calming dog beds to use as their safe place is a great idea. i reached out to meg marrs,…by margeaux baulch klein everything you need to know about the uk porn block the internet provides me with most of my general knowledge, medical diagnoses, and current events news. another thing that many of us seem to turn to the internet for is legal advice. well, the guys over at data analytic company semrush have…by alice broster the latest on how the uk is tackling coronavirus this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around the new coronavirus, also known as covid-19, in the uk. with every day bringing more cases of covid-19 across the globe, it’s easy to fall into a state of panic. if you’re…by bustle uk 17 things to talk about with your partner when it feels like you’ve covered everything after you've been with your partner for a while, it can sometimes feel like you've talked about everything. you've told your stories, you've shared your dreams, and you've muttered a few words about what you'd like to eat for dinner. now, you feel…by carolyn steber welcome back to high school: sex, dating, & social distancing under your parents' roof the only thing more painful than talking to your parents about sex as a teenager? talking to your parents about sex as an adult. as more and more states issue stay-at-home orders, millennials are packing their bags and heading back home to…by griffin wynne these dining chair cushions can make working from your kitchen table way more comfortable dining chairs should be comfortable and inviting for family and friends to gather around the table. the best dining chair cushions make those seats an even better place to sit while also preserving your chairs. with several sets, cushions even make…by ileana morales valentine your ultimate guide to virtual one-night stands flattening the curve doesn't need to mean flattening your sex life. although social-distancing means you won't be taking anyone back to your place any time in foreseeable future, knowing how to have a virtual one-night stand can keep you feeling…by griffin wynne 40 cheap things that make spending time at home way better it doesn't take long for cabin fever to strike when you're stuck indoors. for me, it only takes about two days before i find myself crawling up the walls. when you've played every board game, vacuumed the carpets, and at least skim-read all your…by rebecca martinson millennials' biggest coronavirus cleaning questions, answered by experts thanks to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) and the world health organization (who), it's become common knowledge that properly washing your hands, keeping said hands away from your face, and staying home can reduce the risk of…by kaitlyn wylde how to find instagram live videos for workouts, concerts, cooking tips, & more as the country settles into new lockdown restrictions and focuses on social distancing, social media remains a saving grace for connectivity, entertainment, and engagement. knowing how to find live instagram videos that you actually want to watch…by kaitlyn wylde just say no to plastic — these reusable produce bags can help save the planet trying to reduce waste intensifies the hunt for green solutions, and that includes replacing plastic produce bags. finding the best reusable produce bags will make a trip to the grocery store not just greener, but easier. your main choice will be…by katherine gaffney why all your friends are posting "until tomorrow" captions on instagram right now among the many things people are doing to keep themselves entertained while quarantined — from virtual happy hours to push up challenges — is a new instagram trend that's gaining popularity at a high speed. with nearly 600,000 tagged posts and…by kaitlyn wylde attn phone droppers: this $9 phone grip is life-changing according to reviewers smartphones keep getting bigger, but the best phone grips can help you protect even the most cumbersome device from damaging falls. they also make smartphones easier to use — whether you’re taking selfies, tweeting, or streaming videos. in the…by elizabeth enochs what to know if you're worried about your pet catching coronavirus this post is updated regularly to reflect the latest news and science around coronavirus, also known as covid-19. according to who, the coronavirus has killed over 20,800 people, and infected more than 462,000 people around the world. the virus has…by caroline burke from curtains to couture, these are the 4 best sewing machines for beginners learning to sew can be intimidating, but the best sewing machines for beginners can help you master this skill in no time. but with tons of options online — not to mention trying to decode new terms like "presser feet" and "bobbins" — it can be hard…by katherine gaffney these 5 cheese slicers will take your brie and cheddar game to the next level pulling any old knife out of your drawer to slice cheese can lead to crumbling, dragging, smooshing, or slices that are too thin or oddly shaped — not ideal. but finding the best cheese slicer takes a little bit of thought. for example, you'll want…by katherine gaffney the nostalgic tv series you should be watching right now, based on your zodiac sign april showers may bring may flowers, but sometimes those showers give me the blues. being stuck inside for any reason is a bummer, but you know what always makes me feel a little bit better? marathon-watching hours upon hours of tv series. chocolate…by nina kahn the reason we're all obsessed with puzzles right now a global pandemic brings out a strange and specific side in all of us. canned food has basically become currency, bidet sales are booming, and even the most extroverted and impatient among us are looking for puzzles to do while social distancing.…by mia mercado how will the uk’s new lockdown measures be enforced? with daily updates and new guidelines coming out from both the uk government and health officials, you’d be forgiven for feeling overwhelmed when it comes to coronavirus advice. however, on march 23, boris johnson addressed the nation and announced…by alice broster “there is so much overwhelm”: how spiritual leaders are coping with the coronavirus crisis rev. dr. charlene han powell, executive pastor at fifth avenue presbyterian church in new york city, had been re-reading the gospels for lent when the coronavirus outbreak hit the united states. under orders to stay at home, she’s been returning to…by jennifer gerson newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons