skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources life what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference march 22, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment during times of stress and upheaval, it's easy to feel like it's too big and you can't do anything. here's how to do good no matter where you are. as humans, we often feel as though we're masters … continue reading about what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure december 16, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment when you think of teaching money lessons for teens, you probably don't think of dragging them through the car-buying process. but that's exactly what i did. i'm not talking about taking the boy … continue reading about 5 money lessons my son learned from our latest car-buying adventure an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 november 11, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment hey liz, you know you're my girl, right? we have some minor quibbles. i prefer a public option for healthcare, similar to what was originally proposed by president obama, to straight-up medicare … continue reading about an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 women making money — can we afford to be pickier? october 10, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment there are more women making money than before — at least among certain segments of the population. is that making us pickier? before we get into this, i need to acknowledge a couple of points of … continue reading about women making money — can we afford to be pickier? weighing the cost of reproductive choices as a person with a uterus september 23, 2019 by miranda marquit 2 comments at the risk of tmi, we're going to look at the cost of reproductive choices. strap in, kids. it's about to get real. back in march, after fighting with insurance companies and healthcare providers … continue reading about weighing the cost of reproductive choices as a person with a uterus my turn at being at a pundit on local tv may 22, 2016 by miranda marquit leave a comment not too long ago, i was asked to join local news anchors to talk about our local and state primary results. because i'm involved with the local dems, they asked me on to provide my thoughts as a … continue reading about my turn at being at a pundit on local tv go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 63 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com