skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: life at home i write about mice but actually anxiety. posted on sep 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings it’s funny, the things that finally set you off. like, i’ve always presumed that i was a relatively hinged person, but here i am, utterly unhinged. for some of you, this will be unsurprising. some of you will be thinking, “geraldine, you were never hinged. you have fewer hinges than a sliding door.” and i… keep reading 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on jul 30, 2019 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings my husband turned 40 at the beginning of july. i wanted a bacchanalian celebration, cake and lights and streamers and swarms of people, forgetting entirely that this milestone wasn’t about me. the realization would hit me eventually, before too much planning had occurred: he didn’t want a big to-do. nor did he want, he insisted,… keep reading become invincible. then make cadbury creme egg mayonnaise. posted on may 24, 2019 posted in: food, life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay the problem with any writer who happens to experience that rare, fleeting phenomenon known as “external validation” is that for a few moments, we go a little mad. which is to say: we start believing our own hype. and for a writer, truly, what greater madness is there than believing in yourself? don’t get me… keep reading i bumped into a guy from high school and would now like to speak to the manager posted on may 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings hello, hi, yes, i would like to speak to the manager please? no, i don’t think that this is something you could help me with … okay. okay, fine. yes, so i’ve been shopping here for several years, and it’s always been a really positive experience. but yesterday i was walking down the freezer aisle… keep reading the importance of keeping things that spark rage posted on feb 4, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings i had not worn the socks in years when i fished them out of the back of the drawer. they had survived the journey to college and six subsequent moves. they were one of the few relics of my past that had not been destroyed in the recent fire that consumed my mother’s home. they… keep reading an open letter to whoever left poo on my toilet seat. posted on jan 10, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, rants and raves, uncategorized dear friends, as you know, rand and i are social creatures. we thrive on seeing the people we love, on following the winding paths of your lives, on quietly building a history of private jokes and shared experiences together. we aren’t simply growing old with each other, we are growing old with all of you,… keep reading halloween 2018: indiana jones and punching nazis. posted on nov 2, 2018 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, random musings i don’t know when the idea for this year’s halloween costume originated. rand and i have been talking about it for years. it’s the sort of thing that stays simmering on the back burner for so long that you almost have to wonder if it’ll ever come to fruition, or if the idea will simply… keep reading pillow fight. posted on mar 19, 2018 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, uncategorized it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a married man in possession of a house will one day find himself in a shouting match with his spouse about something trivial like throw pillows. all of this will likely happen at ikea. if that man has refused to go to ikea, because he has justly concluded… keep reading moving on. posted on jan 30, 2018 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings we’ve moved. after 7 years in the townhome we rented – longer than i’ve lived anywhere in my entire, rand and i moved into our first house. it wasn’t far – just across town, but i was surprised by how hard it was, especially for two people who were constantly moving from one city to… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 6 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.