skip to content college info geek life skills menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search life skills high school and college are only the beginning of the journey, and once you graduate, there are still a ton of questions: how do you budget your money and get out of debt? what about buying a house? and how can you make sure you stay fit and healthy for the rest of your life? this collection of articles will help you optimize the aspects of your life outside of school and your career. you’ll also find many articles on how to think better, become more rational, and make better decisions. protect your health why you’re tired all the time: how to have all-day energy how to stay hydrated: here’s everything you need to know optimize your sleep: 5 tips for falling asleep faster and sleeping better learn, grow, and be happy how to make friends in college: a comprehensive guide the t-shaped person: building deep expertise and a wide knowledge base 7 ways to improve your critical thinking skills how to learn any skill in under 20 hours 5 ways to travel more in college how to move to a new city (from start to finish) manage your money how to budget and save money as a college student how i cut my average meal cost to $3.57 by meal prepping how to save $108.76 per year with amazon prime student 39 ways you can cut the cost of college the ultimate list of student discounts and deals – winter 2020 stop being broke: 100+ ways to make money in college – winter 2020 our best podcast episodes on optimizing your life 10 essential life skills that every student should have (ep. 175) social skills: how to be confident in social situations (ep. 181) how to be good at everything — the rapid skill learning process (ep. 210) 10 things we regret not doing in college (ep. 271) the hedonic treadmill (ep. 226) 10 things we’d tell our 18-year-old selves (ep. 213) easy ways to be eco-friendly (ep. 262) how to take criticism (ep. 215) the dip: how to know when to quit (ep. 202) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.