toggle navigation login sign up lightroom portrait retouching mini course using our free portrait adjustment brushes for lightroom classic cc, learn how to enhance eyes, teeth and skin. enroll in course for free retouching portraits in lightroom is easier than you think. a single brush has a lot of power, since you can customize multiple actions and settings with a single brush. the good news is that we've done that for you by including a free set of lightroom portrait adjustment brushes for lightroom classic cc. the course includes these brushes: enhance eye whites enhance iris (blue, green and hazel) soften skin (light and dark) whiten teeth you'll learn how to install the included adjustment brushes and control them with the sliders inside of lightroom to control how much of the effect you get with each stroke. we included a video module for each brush to show you techniques that you can use to enhance your portraits quickly and easily inside of lightroom classic cc, and it's all free. please note that lightroom cc doesn't yet accept adjustment brush presets like these, so the downloadable brushes are only for lightroom classic cc. your instructor william beem hi, i'm william beem. thanks for being here and taking a step toward enhancing your business and photography. i operate a few blogs and a photography podcast (the photo flunky show) that i co-host with my wife, lee. we talk about the creative aspects of photography, because you're the one who makes great photos - not the gear. we have a small family that includes our daughter and three retrievers who are constantly picking things up and putting them down somewhere else. thanks very much for being here. our goal is to help you, and we appreciate the trust you placed in us to serve you. course curriculum lightroom portrait retouching available in days days after you enroll start introduction (1:50) start how to whiten the eyes (2:47) start how to enhance the iris (5:06) start how to smooth skin (6:19) start how to whiten teeth (4:40) start conclusion (0:52) frequently asked questions when does the course start and finish? the course starts now and never ends! it is a completely self-paced online course - you decide when you start and when you finish. how long do i have access to the course? how does lifetime access sound? after enrolling, you have unlimited access to this course for as long as you like - across any and all devices you own. what if i am unhappy with the course? we would never want you to be unhappy! if you are unsatisfied with your purchase, contact us in the first 30 days and we will give you a full refund. do the adjustment brushes work with any version of lightroom? the included adjustment brushes work with lightroom classic cc. unfortunately, lightroom cc does not have the ability to load adjustment brushes. off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! get started now! free course coupon discount free enroll in course for free © suburbia press 2020 terms of use privacy policy teach online with