can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows green is the new green design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement lindsey reynolds social media editor / writer / new orleans, louisiana lindsey reynolds writes about both practical and light-hearted approaches to living a zero-waste lifestyle from a single millennial perspective. experience lucky enough to be based in new orleans, lindsey takes a holistic yet pragmatic approach to living a sustainable lifestyle. with a writing career running the gamut from airlines to higher education to the hospitality industry to sustainable living, lindsey believes that a low-waste lifestyle can be applied anywhere to anyone. working as a writer, editor, and social media strategist, she has been part of the mnn/treehugger team since 2017. previously, she was part of the first-ever social media team for southwest airlines, did public relations for award-winning chefs and restaurants, was the managing editor for tales of the cocktail, and was awarded the nathalie dupree fellowship at the southern foodways alliance, an institution based at the university of mississippi, where her research centered on journalism and the media portrayal of the american south. her work has appeared in garden & gun, cnn eatocracy, the daily mississippian, good grit, and oxford magazine. in addition, lindsey is a rescue dog enthusiast, professional introvert, and was one of time magazine’s 2017 person of the year. she lives with her two dogs in new orleans, louisiana. education lindsey holds a bachelor of science from the university of texas with a major in advertising and copywriting, and a master of arts in southern studies from the university of mississippi. latest stories from lindsey reynolds what does a gender-neutral city look like? urban design by lindsey reynolds march 27, 2020 how to simplify your beauty routine organic beauty by lindsey reynolds march 23, 2020 vinyl: the plastic found in (almost) everything plastic by lindsey reynolds march 19, 2020 the best bar soaps for every body part cleaning & organizing by lindsey reynolds march 17, 2020 how to start a circular economy in your hometown green jobs by lindsey reynolds march 12, 2020 when elected officials give up on green initiatives, bring in the youth environmental policy by lindsey reynolds march 5, 2020 why is toxic masculinity such a huge part of car culture? cars by lindsey reynolds march 3, 2020 fancy food guide adds sustainability symbol to highlight green restaurants green food by lindsey reynolds february 27, 2020 what's the deal with natural wine? green food by lindsey reynolds february 26, 2020 the eternal conundrum of dog poop pets by lindsey reynolds february 20, 2020 8 eco-friendly beauty brands from around the world organic beauty by lindsey reynolds april 9, 2018 from coops to condos, here's the latest in backyard chicken dwellings lawn & garden by lindsey reynolds march 22, 2018 this back-to-nature hobby has everyone buzzing lawn & garden by lindsey reynolds march 19, 2018 where to find the next trends in sustainability? try behind the bar. environmental policy by lindsey reynolds march 16, 2018 8 of the best cherry blossom viewing spots in the world culture by lindsey reynolds march 14, 2018 most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved