skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about categories map family tree log in register search go encyclopedia food and drink food seafood/fish ling annotations (5) references (5) 5 annotations ✹ judy b on 16 oct 2004 • link merriam webster online defines "ling" as "any of various fishes (as a hake or burbot) of the cod family." also, "lingcod." ✹ vicente on 17 oct 2004 • link ling can bite viciously [only when alive ] found off the essex coast.they doth like wrecks? many versions of ling from 2lb up the 113 lb ones: found by not fishing but goog ling distribution widely distributed around the uk shores, but less frequently taken in the upper english channel waters and north sea. it was thought that ling were not resident in the southern north sea at one stage, but recent exploratory trips to wrecks off essex have produced ling in excess of 20lbs. http://indian-river.fl.us/fishing/fish/cobia.html also known by name lingcod [ling cod] ling sounds (swimbladder) are highly sought after. it appears not all fish have a sound reflector? http://www.sealord.co.nz/xml/default.asp?globalsu… mackerel do not possess a swimbladder [an air ... result, mackerel are poor reflectors of sound, and have ... different acoustic properties to other fish] need a better definition. ✹ pedro. on 17 oct 2004 • link ✹ terry foreman on 20 mar 2010 • link common ling among the species of ling, this has the geographical distribution and name to have would up on pepys's plate. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/common_ling ✹ bill on 16 oct 2014 • link ling and chips? ling, a sort of salt-fish. ---an universal etymological english dictionary. n. bailey, 1675. log in to post an annotation. if you don't have an account, then register here. references chart showing the number of references in each month of the diary’s entries. 1660 jan 20 25 1661 oct 16 1667 mar 20 jun 3 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site