skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged links it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 18 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 17, 2020 how to create a “skip to content” link author paul ryan 9 comments join conversation skip links are little internal navigation links that help users move around a page. it’s possible you’ve never actually seen one before because they’re often hidden from view and used as an accessibility enhancement that lets keyboard users and screen readers jump from the top of the page to the content without have to go through other elements on the page first. in fact, you can find one right here on css-tricks if you crack devtools open.… read article “how to create a “skip to content” link” :focus-within accessibility hiding links article march 10, 2020 block links are a pain (and maybe just a bad idea) author chris coyier 26 comments join conversation as we noted in our complete guide, you can put an <a href=""> link around whatever chunks of html you like. let's call that a "block link." like you are wanting to link up an entire "card" of content because it makes a big clickable target. … read article “block links are a pain (and maybe just a bad idea)” accessibility links link march 9, 2020 use a:visited in your css stylesheet shared by chris coyier evert pot: unfortunately, when setting a new color (e.g. a { color: #44f }) the ‘purple visited link’ feature also gets disabled. i think this is a shame, as there’s so many instances where you’re going through a list of links and want to see what you’ve seen before. the 2 examples i ran into today were: • aws cloudwatch logs • stackoverflow search results i like those use cases. my take is that :visited is perhaps a bit … read article “use a:visited in your css stylesheet” our notes / read at evertpot.com links article march 3, 2020 4 ways to animate the color of a text link on hover author katherine kato 5 comments join conversation let’s create a pure css effect that changes the color of a text link on hover… but slide that new color in instead of simply swapping colors.… read article “4 ways to animate the color of a text link on hover” animations hover links article february 21, 2020 fixed headers and jump links? the solution is scroll-margin-top author chris coyier 21 comments join conversation the problem: you click a jump link like <a href="#header-3">jump</a> which links to something like <h3 id="header-3">header</h3>. that's totally fine, until you have a position: fixed; header at the top of the page obscuring the header you're trying to link to! fixed headers have a nasty habit of hiding the element you're trying to link to. … read article “fixed headers and jump links? the solution is scroll-margin-top” headers links scroll-margin scroll-padding article february 14, 2020 a complete guide to links and buttons author chris coyier 8 comments join conversation our complete guide to links, buttons, and button-like inputs in html, css, and javascript. buttons links article october 4, 2019 breakout buttons author chris coyier 8 comments go to comments andy covers a technique where a semantic <button></button> is used within a card component, but really, the whole card is clickable. the trick is to put a pseudo-element that goes beyond the button, covering the entire card. the tradeoff is that the pseudo-element sits on top of the text, so text selection is hampered a bit. i believe this is better than making the whole dang area a <button></button> because that would sacrifice semantics and likely cause extreme weirdness for … read article “breakout buttons” buttons links semantics article october 1, 2019 the many ways to link up shapes and images with html and css author bailey jones 6 comments go to comments different website designs often call for a shape other than a square or rectangle to respond to a click event. perhaps your site has some kind of tilted or curved banner where the click area would be awkwardly large as a straight rectangle. or you have a large uniquely shaped logo where you only want that unique shape to be clickable. or you have an interactive image that responds differently when different regions of it are clicked. you can surround … read article “the many ways to link up shapes and images with html and css” clip-path css shapes links svg article september 23, 2019 link underlines that animate into block backgrounds author chris coyier 3 comments go to comments it's a cool little effect. the default link style has an underline (which is a good idea) and then on :hover you see the underline essentially thicken up turning into almost what it would have looked liked if you used a background-color on the link instead. here's an example of the effect on the superfriendly site:… read article “link underlines that animate into block backgrounds” links text-decoration underlines article august 30, 2019 styling links with real underlines author ollie williams 10 comments go to comments before we come to how to style underlines, we should answer the question: should we underline? in graphic design, underlines are generally seen as unsophisticated. there are nicer ways to draw emphasis, to establish hierarchy, and to demarcate titles. that’s clear in this advice from butterick’s "practical typography": if you feel the urge to underline, use bold or italic instead. in special situations, like headings, you can also consider using all caps, small caps, or changing the point … read article “styling links with real underlines” links underline 1 2 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers