moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in meet link explorer this highly accurate link tool lets you check the backlink profile and domain authority of any site. link explorer get free link data how it works enter the url of the website or page you want to get link data for. create a moz account to access link explorer and other free seo tools. we send a notification to verify your email — help us keep the robots out. get a comprehensive analysis for the url you entered, plus much more! the same tools and more that open site explorer provided — powered by a completely new, fresh, and robust live link index. 37 trillion links 656 million domains 6 trillion pages get complete link metrics for any website, including page authority and domain authority. see the links to any site understand why your page or your website is ranking where it is in search results by reviewing and monitoring inbound links. research competitor backlinks compare the makeup of your competitors’ link profiles and see where they're earning their links and how. find broken links to your site maintain link equity and traffic from the quality backlinks you’ve earned by easily finding and fixing broken links to your site. check the spam score of backlinks decrease the number of spammy links pointing to your site and increase quality links. discover link building opportunities find out who’s linking to your competitors (but not to you) with link intersect. research top-performing content see which content and top pages outperform the others – plus, research your competitors. see new and lost links monitor when your content is gaining or losing links. discover the most recent links by date. analyze anchor text see how sites are linking to you with the full anchor text data for every link, url, and domain. domain authority checker check success metrics including domain authority (da), page authority (pa), spam score, and complete link counts to any site. link explorer is instrumental in our audits for prospective clients, and moz page authority and domain authority communicate link metrics and site strength in a clear fashion for our prospects. other link products are not as clear. anita vp of operations at topspot part of the most trusted seo analytics platform propel your search strategy with competitive intelligence, roi-improving insights, and a complete view of your organic search performance. link explorer get free link data moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today