skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: links i love 3 links i love: shut ’em down, give ’em money 3 links i love: shut ’em down, give ’em money this week’s featured link the case for shutting down u.s. airlines now – skift it should be shut down, but it’s not just the threat of spreading the disease. it’s also the economic carnage of continuing to operate nearly-empty airplanes. i say bring back the cab, divvy up the routes … cf on mar 26, 2020 mar 27, 2020 3 coronavirus-free links i love: goodbye to midwest, klm 747s, and rick rogers 3 coronavirus-free links i love: goodbye to midwest, klm 747s, and rick rogers this week’s featured link wisconsin’s midwest express airlines ends elite partnership – ch-aviation remember how midwest express was going to come back with chocolate chip cookies and all? scratch that. the airline was going to outsource flying to elite, but that has now fallen apart and descended into lawsuits. midwest … cf on mar 19, 2020 mar 20, 2020 3 links i love: which airline fails next, volotea bails iag out, and ba wins 3 links i love: which airline fails next, volotea bails iag out, and ba wins this week’s featured link coronavirus is pushing some airlines to the precipice – skift the end is near for some. if this continues, there will be a whole lot of airlines either waiting for government bailouts or failing. outside of norwegian, it’s hard for me to think of any huge … cf on mar 12, 2020 mar 13, 2020 3 links i love: lot of trouble, tecnam time, cathay’s unenviable position 3 links i love: lot of trouble, tecnam time, cathay’s unenviable position this week’s featured link lufthansa will verträge mit condor auslaufen lassen – handelsblatt what, you don’t speak german? neither do i, but that’s why google translate is my friend. basically, this says that lufthansa is going to let its agreements with condor expire when they’re up. that’s somewhat surprising to … cf on mar 6, 2020 mar 6, 2020 2 links i love and an update i don’t: eva fines, o’leary sounds off, heathrow blocked again 2 links i love and an update i don’t: eva fines, o’leary sounds off, heathrow blocked again sorry to disappoint you, but there’s no featured link this week. see, i didn’t think it was worth a full post to update you on what happened with cranky concierge’s massive $6,500 bill from eva air, so i figured i’d just drop it in here as an update. (read … cf on feb 27, 2020 feb 28, 2020 3 links i love: norwegian keeps going, an expensive a380 move, pleasures of plane spotting 3 links i love: norwegian keeps going, an expensive a380 move, pleasures of plane spotting this week’s featured link norwegian doubles 2019 underlying operating result before ownership costs and achieves cost-reduction target – norwegian press release even though norwegian has released its most recent results, i’m not going to write them up because it’s just more of the same. the airline continues to try to … cf on feb 21, 2020 feb 21, 2020 3 links i love: alitalia gets great news, contour sneaks up, how planes fly 3 links i love: alitalia gets great news, contour sneaks up, how planes fly this week’s featured link qatar airways statement on air italy – qatar airways press release air italy is dead, and it’s not thanks to unnecessary us regulation. as i said less than a year ago in a post entitled “don’t waste the effort, let air italy fail on its … cf on feb 13, 2020 feb 14, 2020 3 links i love: avianca rising, demolition in phoenix, norwegian says no heathrow 3 links i love: avianca rising, demolition in phoenix, norwegian says no heathrow this week’s featured link interview: avianca ceo applauds airline consolidation in latin america – airways keep your eyes on avianca. with united’s support, avianca has the time and resources to restructure. the new ceo is assembling a team to really make some noise. i’m expecting to see good things out … cf on feb 6, 2020 feb 8, 2020 3 links i love: a wrong boeing turn, new delta seats, flying on a cargo aircraft 3 links i love: a wrong boeing turn, new delta seats, flying on a cargo aircraft this weeks featured link boeing’s new ceo needs to show commitment to deep overhaul – the seattle times a scathing — though early — review of boeing’s new ceo. the seattle times is not impressed. at least the newspaper realized that major change needs to happen, even if the ceo … cf on jan 31, 2020 jan 31, 2020 3 links i love: hating spirit, eastern again, jetblue pricing 3 links i love: hating spirit, eastern again, jetblue pricing this week’s featured link if everyone hates spirit airlines, how is it making so much money? – marker by medium good read on spirit. i keep waiting for the airline to do something playful with trevor noah the same way arby’s did with jon stewart back in the day. separately, … cf on jan 23, 2020 jan 24, 2020 3 links i love: brutally boeing, flybe saved, american fights in boston 3 links i love: brutally boeing, flybe saved, american fights in boston this week’s featured link december 2019 letter – richardaboulafia.com i keep wanting to write about the ever-worsening situation at boeing, but i just don’t pay close enough attention to the aerospace side to be able to add enough value on the minutiae. i will certainly have more to say when … cf on jan 16, 2020 jan 17, 2020 3 links i love: a ukrainian look at the crash, another hall-of-famer retires, jetblue goes green(er) 3 links i love: a ukrainian look at the crash, another hall-of-famer retires, jetblue goes green(er) this week’s featured link how ukrainian plane crash went from ‘engine failure’ to ‘iranian attack’ – kyiv post i find myself wondering if we’ll every truly know what brought down the ukrainian plane upon departure out of tehran, but i thought it worth looking at coverage coming out of ukraine … cf on jan 9, 2020 jan 10, 2020 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 16 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!