welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley published on: may 19, 2017 by sara reich 14049 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post become the most wanted tech employee with our collection of online courses. the technology market is becoming more and more competitive, and companies are on the hunt for employees with a specific set of skills. if you want to land that coveted job in silicon valley, you’ll likely need to possess one or more of the most in-demand skills required for the 2017 technology job market. below are the... read more about 2017’s top tech skills for getting a job in silicon valley 12 courses learners love published on: feb 14, 2017 by sara reich 8466 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post celebrate your love for learning today, we celebrate love of all types, including the love of learning. hearing from our learners inspires us everyday, especially when they share their favorite courses. check out these 12 courses learners love. 1. the science of happiness – ucberkeleyx (self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 2. world of wine: from grape to glass – adelaidex (self-paced) learner rating:... read more about 12 courses learners love 10 tech courses on edx this summer! published on: may 21, 2015 by mukta g 5605 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post add experience with a new technology or a specific tech-related skill to your resume, college application, or linkedin profile. demand for tech experts in every field continues to increase, and edx is here to help you gain the necessary expertise. check out inc.’s top 6 tech skills you need in 2015, and then browse the courses below and start learning. whether you want to learn a new skill, or brush up on an... read more about 10 tech courses on edx this summer! advance your career and save on “introduction to linux” published on: feb 23, 2015 by michele palmer 4261 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post linux has become a resume “must-have” in the tech industry. now taking the introduction to linux course to advance your career doesn’t have to break the bank with this limited $99 verified certificate offer. what if you could develop a strong working knowledge of linux for less than a hundred dollars? the good news is, you can. for a limited time only, edx and the linux foundation are offering introduction to linux verified... read more about advance your career and save on “introduction to linux” introducing 300,000 people to linux published on: nov 25, 2014 by michele palmer 3165 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this post originally ran on linux.com on november 18. the next introduction to linux course starts on january 5. sign up today. individuals inspire us. from the open source community to the maker community, individuals are changing the way software and hardware are built. together they are advancing the most exciting areas of technology, from linux to cloud and supercomputing to consumer electronics, the internet... read more about introducing 300,000 people to linux why learn linux? published on: aug 12, 2014 by candace hazlett 25932 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post linux is everywhere – you are most likely already using linux on a daily basis linux is versatile – you can use linux on virtually anything you develop linux is a community – you can work with other linux developers to share knowledge and learnings we kicked off the linuxfoundationx introduction to linux course a little over a week ago. so far more than 240,000... read more about why learn linux? free linux mooc: live twitter chat with linux foundation executive director and edx ceo published on: apr 02, 2014 by candace hazlett 4938 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in just a few months the linux foundation’s first training mooc, introduction to linux, will launch. the course has already attracted nearly 100,000 registrations since it was announced only three weeks ago, making it one of the fastest growing courses we’ve ever had on edx. our partnership with linux will make in demand training available to anyone, anywhere, bridge a critical skills gap, and... read more about free linux mooc: live twitter chat with linux foundation executive director and edx ceo a perfect match: linux and moocs published on: mar 10, 2014 by candace hazlett 4701 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 2,500 registrations in first 24 hours. 40,000 and counting in 4 days. moocs appeal to different people in different ways. from the college student who wants to supplement his or her coursework to the stay-at-home dad who wants to brush up on chinese history (and there are hundreds of other examples), the appeal is obvious and the opportunities endless. one area where we believe moocs... read more about a perfect match: linux and moocs search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close