skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer list folks top rated tech reviews home hand & power tools electronics guides 6 best diy security systems for your home 20/03/2020 by shawn bell we always want to make our homes more secure and it’s really important but that’s not always easy as it seems. you are not only frustrated to lose the stuff but you feel your house violated by burglaries. what you need to do it to keep your house secure from these violations in the first place. so, we listed the best diy security systems for your home, install them yourself and feel … [read more...] about 6 best diy security systems for your home best bathroom exhaust fan with humidity sensor 05/03/2020 by shawn bell want to buy the best bathroom exhaust fan with a humidity sensor and couldn't figure out the best piece. there are a lot of variants of exhaust fans and it’s a little bit tricky to find out the exhaust fan that has a good humidity sensor in it. well, you are not alone. we shortlisted the best pieces over here to save your time and investment. humidity is not bad but its excess is. … [read more...] about best bathroom exhaust fan with humidity sensor 8 best camping gadgets 28/12/2019 by shawn bell camping is a wonderful opportunity for some folks. if you want to enjoy some time outdoors here is an extensive list of best camping gadgets. these camping gadgets would add more to your outdoor adventures, meanwhile, providing you comfort along with entertainment. 1. ncamp wood burning camping stove ncamp claims that with their gadgets you have to pack small and adventure big … [read more...] about 8 best camping gadgets best mechanical pencil for writing 25/12/2019 by shawn bell mechanical pencils are being used for more than 4 centuries. old mechanical pencils were equipped with a very basic clutch whose purpose was to just hold the graphite shaft and to make it stay in its place when a user is writing. now the mechanical pencils are modern than before both in functionality, build, and design. mechanical pencils come with built-in mechanism to hold the … [read more...] about best mechanical pencil for writing the best mechanical pencil for math 16/09/2019 by shawn bell math is like poetry for some folks and they just love doing it. if you also love to do the math and aren't sure what is the best mechanical pencil for math then keep reading, you will surely find the answer. we have done the hard work for you by narrowing the choice for the best mechanical pencil for math. there are a lot of things that are considered when buying a mechanical … [read more...] about the best mechanical pencil for math the best rotary cutters for quilting 2020 08/09/2019 by shawn bell the rotary cutter is just like a comfort station for any person engaged in quilting. if you had never had an experience with a rotary cutter, then, you might miss an adventure, correct me if i am wrong. the best rotary cutter can do the same work as you can do with a pair of scissors. so, why not give a chance to the rotary cutter? for your convenience, we have reviewed the top … [read more...] about the best rotary cutters for quilting 2020 best laptops 2020 – 11 best budget laptops reviewed 04/08/2019 by shawn bell laptops are more portable, efficient and user-friendly than before. are you finding a laptop for yourself? well, you are in the right spot. we have reviewed the 11 best laptops in 2020 on the market right now. there are laptops for every price range on this list. with that said, the laptops have gone through a substantial change within a short span of time. they are even more … [read more...] about best laptops 2020 – 11 best budget laptops reviewed olfa vs fiskars rotary cutter 30/06/2019 by shawn bell all the rotary cutters are made for the same purpose and that is quilting. most of the people have a kink in their mind when choosing between olfa and fiskars rotary cutter. so, we decided to make a comparison of the best selling rotary cutters - fiskars vs olfa rotary cutter. they both are doing well and occupy a substantial part of the market in the rotary cutters category. so, … [read more...] about olfa vs fiskars rotary cutter what is the best ergonomic mouse for wrist pain 31/01/2019 by shawn bell the ergonomic mouse is specifically designed to keep its user's hand in the most neutral position. it also gives the least strain to the wrist and provides a comfortable grip at the same time. all ergonomic mice have a comfortable design but for some folks, they don't work for reducing muscle strain. so, what is the best ergonomic mouse that reduces wrist pain? the ergonomic mouse … [read more...] about what is the best ergonomic mouse for wrist pain go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 9 go to next page » primary sidebar search this website recent posts 6 best diy security systems for your home best bathroom exhaust fan with humidity sensor 8 best camping gadgets best mechanical pencil for writing the best mechanical pencil for math footer listfolks.com listfolks.com is an idea based on providing quality information to the people and help them pick the best product. we give our utmost efforts to provide unbiased reviews in the form of listicles. affiliate disclosure listfolks.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associate program. we earn commissions on purchases made through our affiliate links. “amazon and the amazon logo are trademarks of amazon.com, inc. or its affiliates.” important pages about us contact us privacy policy amazon affiliate disclosure all rights reserved. copyrights © 2017 - listfolks.com pin it on pinterest