kolakube about stream portfolio contact list of available widgets in marketers delight 2 table of contents optin form popular posts testimonials/quotes orbs affiliate links marketers delight 2 comes with some pretty sweet built-in widgets to make customizing your sidebar really easy. here is a list of all available widgets as of version 2.2 optin form description: allows you to easily place an optin form in your sidebar, while adding some other cool things to enhance the form. widget screenshot: output on site: fields: title: set the headline of the widget description: add a short description of your headline optin code: paste your optin code (be sure to read best practices for styling an optin form) social proof: add a quote or a testimonial someone said about you to make yourself look more appealing. 😉 who said it: the name of the person/organization who said that about you popular posts description: generates a list of most popular posts on your site by comments and neatly lists them in your sidebar. widget screenshot: output on site: fields: title: the headline of the widget # of articles: set how many articles should be listed (no limit…be careful!) show comments?: this will toggle whether or not the number of comments will show after each post testimonials/quotes description: allows you to add testimonial/quote boxes to the sidebar. widget screenshot: output on site: fields: title: set a headline to appear before the quote widget quote: write what the actual quote/testimonial is who are they?: a short description of who the person who said it is their picture: a 60×60 image of the quote author orbs description: like the orb page lead, you can use your very own orbs in your sidebar! widget screenshot: output on site: fields: title: the title of the orb (will display inside the orb) description: the description of the orb (will display inside the orb) outer text: any text you want to write to appear outside of the orb button text: if you want a button to show up, enter text here button link: where the button will lead to once clicked button color: easily change the color of your button affiliate links description: promote your favorite affiliate products through this nifty affiliate product widget! widget screenshot: output on site: fields: featured title: adds a ribbon to the top of the widget with a featured title in it name of affiliate product: the title of the product you are promoting your affiliate link: your special affiliate url featured image: a small thumbnail of the product (recommended: 65×65) description a quick description of what the product is, and how it can help your viewers. previous post: how to add a colored button to the header menu next post: how to add a custom message to the end of all posts learn how to build a smarter website explore wordpress development and business strategy with alex mangini, the writer behind kolakube and the developer of marketers delight. go my wordpress products i work fulltime building products on wordpress, mainly marketers delight. here's my work from around the web: marketers delight (theme) cryptowp (plugin) md forums wordpress.org profile built in kolakube is built on marketers delight + wordpress. web hosting by siteground · contact alex.