us edition u.s. canada u.k. australia brazil españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) maghreb quebec close news u.s. news world news business environment health social justice politics congress donald trump 2020 election tracker extremism entertainment culture & arts media celebrity tv & film life style & beauty food & drink parenting travel finds wellness relationships money home & living work/life communities queer voices women black voices latino voices asian voices special projects impact: project zero impact: this new world highline listen to america podcasts black history month 2020 huffpost personal video horoscopes from our partners headstrong women's work my hair, my story what's working: purpose + profit newsletters coupons international australia brazil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) quebec u.k. u.s. follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. breaking news tap here to turn on desktop notifications to get the news sent straight to you. open search log in join huffpost plus news politics 2020 elections entertainment community life personal video shopping u.s. canada u.k. australia brazil españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) maghreb quebec u.s. edition san diego, ca (10/6) sacramento, ca (10/8) reno, nv (10/10) boise, id (10/11) boulder, co (10/15) phoenix, az (10/18) what issues do people care about most in places we don’t hear from often enough? that’s what huffpost set out to discover last year on our listen to america bus tour. we interviewed nearly 1,700 people (you can hear more than 300 of them in this beautiful interactive) and listened. what we heard surprised us, and informs the stories we’re telling at huffpost today. heading into the 2018 election cycle, we’re going to go out and educate ourselves again. we’re out on the road for a two-week journey through five western states (four of which we didn’t manage to visit last year) to talk about issues affecting communities in california, nevada, idaho, arizona and colorado. we’re partnered with local media organizations to produce town hall events in each location where we address an issue of specific concern. for more detail, here’s what we’re doing in sacramento, reno, boise, boulder and phoenix. all events will be livestreamed on this page, and huffpost’s social accounts. want to make sure you hear from us on the road? subscribe to huffpost’s morning email and you won’t miss a thing. want to share an issue that’s important to you and your community? email us at listening@huffpost.com. see you when we’re back! watch the latest listen to america livestream we will be livestreaming each of our town hall events on this page. check back to see the latest from california, nevada, idaho, arizona and colorado. where we are going illustration: isabella carapella thank you to our news partners today is national voter registration day! we made it easy for you to exercise your right to vote! register now! news politics entertainment life communities huffpost personal video newsletters huffpost about us advertise about our ads contact us rss faq careers archive user agreement privacy policy comment policy huffpost press room coupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.