home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one tips tips for writers by barbara poelle editor’s note: today’s post is from barbara poelle. as vice president of a literary agency herself, she understands exactly what it takes to get the interest of literary agents. and, with hundreds of manuscripts landing on agents desks week in, week out, she also understands just how quickly you need to hook an agent’s attention. so here are 10 quick tips to do just that – oh, and to make sure it’s a good agent you’re hooking 🙂 so, you’ve made your 2020 resolutions- this is the year you get an agent and get that book deal! i’m with ya! these shoes don’t buy themselves, so let’s set you up for success because i have my eye on some peep toe pradas. first and foremost let’s go over the key components necessary for a successful submission and review process. your query letter is your novel’s resume, and you would never head to a job interview with a shoddy resume, so let’s make sure your book has the same professionalism and pizazz. so… how’s your query looking? is it including all of the meat with very little fat? a quick and easy recipe for making sure you are serving your novel up perfectly- your query should consist of: the hook: an intro including logline (a one-sentence refined summary that boils the work down to its broadest definition, word count, and genre. this is also a good point to include any comparable titles: “this is ___ meets __”). the book: four to five sentences explaining the premise. the cook: a bit about the author. basically: why this book, why me, why now. if you can check these boxes, let’s take a look at the pages themselves. most agencies are looking at the first ten pages and a synopsis of your work. so: 4. how is your first line? they are so important! we want that first line to drop the hook in the agent’s mouth and pull. a quick and easy litmus test: go your bookshelf and pull several titles and read the first line out loud. (some of my personal favorites are sena jeter naslund’s ahab’s wife, andy weir’s the martian, lee childs’ killing floor, and graham brown’s black rain.) take a beat to assess what works about the opening line. does yours deliver as well? 5. after you’ve hooked us with that first line, we are turning our attention to the first ten pages of the manuscript, so are those first ten pages in the best shape possible for literary agents to look at? are they giving a hint that whatever to come is unputdownable? 6. finally, how is your synopsis? it should be three to five paragraphs, and get into more about the characters and their conflicts. it is not a detailed pitch, but a true summary. thus it should explain the full story arc, sometimes even including a solid hint at the ending, even if it’s with that old chestnut “and a twist that [the character] never saw coming”. we’re at the checkered flag, one last round we go…before you start your submissions, let’s crash course a couple of other flags to make sure you are communicating with reputable agents: 7. reading fees: green flag reputable literary agents will confirm that they only get paid when you get paid. no legit agent will ask for a reading fee. ever, at any point. we get paid when you get paid. period. red flag an agent that has a conversation about fees at the submission stage. 8. media presence: green flag: reputable agents will have a website or at least a page on publishers marketplace detailing clients and sales. red flag: an agent who reaches out through a social media account with no other media presence. 9. submission plan specifics: green flag: an agent should be able to tell you which imprints—and sometimes even specific editors—she is considering sending the book to, and why. red flag: an agent who says broad terms concerning submissions like “harper collins” or “publishers”. an agent who says they want to represent the work based on the query or before they have read the full manuscript. 10. references: green flag an agent should connect you to another client(s) as reference upon offering representation. red flag: an agent that makes excuses on why you cannot speak to any current client. literary agents: go nab a good one okay, grab your resolve and start your resoluting! i’ll be peeping my peep toes waiting for your query! tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author barbara poelle barbara poelle is vice president at the irene goodman literary agency, representing a variety of genres but focusing on suspense, thriller, upmarket and young adult fiction. her book funny you should ask: mostly serious answers to mostly serious questions about the book publishing industry based on her writer’s digest column of the same name, arrives in bookstores jan 14, 2020. you can visit her at funnyyoushouldaskbook.com or irenegoodman.com/barbara-poelle ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here visualize, organize, and write anything faster and easier than ever before! writer's blocks is simple, powerful writing software that makes your writing faster, easier and smarter. grab the fully-functional free trial of writer's blocks here writing for life workshops master the craft of fiction writing. popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera market your writing qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one by sneh choudhary copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >