subscribe by email rss life in leggings a healthy lifestyle blog home about contact family work out with me faqs press disclaimer recipes breakfast lunch snacks dinner & entrees desserts & sweets soups & stews drinks & smoothies vegetarian fitness cardio workouts circuit workouts nasm & study guides running & race recaps workout playlists weekly workouts sponsor reviews favorites friday favorites beauty health fitness blogging tutorials & videos dance highlights & faqs coffee talks travel orlando & florida detroit & michigan wedding little things that have made me smile this week march 20, 2020 by heather leave a comment hi there! it sure has been a long year this week. i know i’m not alone in thinking we’re living in a strange version of the world right now. my heart and prayers are going out to every family that has been affected by this horrible virus in any way. i’ve seen a lot of posts and articles go around that suggest how we can help by taking action. small efforts go a long way … buy gift cards from local restaurants, shop online from small businesses, stay connected and check in on loved ones, tip generously and support those who are out working right now, donate to food banks, get your family to write cheerful letters to the elderly, or even offer childcare for someone who might need some help. we are in a state of crisis right now, and if there’s anything that i’m learning from it, it’s to hold your loved ones tight and soak in the time that we’ve been given with each other. this friday favorites post is all about the things that made me smile this week, because i think we could all use a break from the news and serious talk. am i right? latest faves: finding the silver lining skyler’s second birthday scott and i were super bummed to cancel skyler’s birthday party that was originally scheduled on his birthday last sunday. but, we made made the right decision, and i don’t think that he’ll ever know the difference. we started the day with mickey mouse shaped pancakes (he loved them and ate an entire one himself!), and ended it with ice cream and a chocolate cake with two candles on it. our baby is two! we had a lot of special moments in between, including a long walk through the park and the debut of frozen ii on disney+. update — he is now equally obsessed with frozen as he has been with toy story and will name every character from both from top to bottom. it’s impressive! my emotions were swarming all over the place during this birthday. even though he has been considered a toddler since his last birthday, it hit me that skyler is no longer in the baby category. we’re in a place where we don’t know if there will be another baby in our future (although i’d love that to happen … but that’s a post for another day), so the thought that i may not experience all of the “baby stuff” again is really getting to me. that said, skyler as a toddler is very fun! it’s also challenging. you can read more about what life is like at this stage in skyler’s two year update. happy birthday, skyler king — you are the biggest blessing through all of this! the fitness industry coming together online it’s been so inspiring to see fitness professionals and companies stream classes online, offer free workout programs, and rally during such an unsettling time. i know it’s motivated me, and i’m guessing that it’s helping those who depend on fitness as an outlet and sense of normalcy right now. you can find just about any workout online right now, and that’s an amazing thing. and, by the way, make sure to check out this giveaway some fellow fitness-minded mommas and i are raffling off if you haven’t already! it’s a good one. healthy lifestyle bootcamp speaking of offering free workouts online, i have something exciting in the works, and i’d love to extend the invitation for you to join! it’s a crazy time for all of us right now, so i wanted to channel my energy into something positive that can get us moving, feeling better, and connecting with an uplifting community – all while safely practicing social distancing. who’s down for a week of group training and healthy lifestyle coaching on me? i created a private facebook group called healthy lifestyle bootcamp, and i’m offering a new workout that you can do at home every morning, my go-to healthy recipes and throw-together meals that i’ve been turning to for years, and tips for cleaning up your beauty routine. i don’t have all the answers, but i do have a platform to do what i can to make it a more positive and mindful week ahead. if you’d like to be added to the group, message me or you can request an invite here. the group officially kick off on monday, but i’ll be posting here and there to get things started. i’m excited! ditching cable i can’t remember the last time that scott and i have actually used our cable subscription, outside of my weekly viewing of grey’s anatomy (which i now stream online). we hung on to it for a while for sports, but we’re just not home enough (except for right now, ha) or care to tune in enough to justify a subscription any longer. i often use the time that i have at night to work online, so i usually only have something on for background noise, if at all. since canceling our subscription, we satisfy our itch for watching television with a good netflix series, and of course, disney+ for skyler. it gets the job done for sure! cooking together the silver lining to all of this madness for me is the family time.there has been a lot of quality time, and scott and i have also been back in the kitchen cooking together, which hasn’t happened in a hot minute. i almost forgot that it was st. patrick’s day on tuesday, and i figured it out when my family sent me well wishes. this year’s celebrations looked a lot different than the previous years, but we decided to end the day cooking an irish stew, mashed potatoes, and cabbage. i didn’t get a picture of it that night (whoops), so i snapped this photo the next day for lunch after i added some peas. gotta love the leftovers that come with making big pots of stew! 10% off clean beauty products & gratitude for beautycounter i wanted to share a fantastic promotion that is currently going on, which i am going to do. but first, i want to start this section with gratitude. after listening to a quick message from our founder and ceo last night, i’ve never been more proud to be a part of beautycounter as i have over the last month and especially today. in case you missed it, gregg renfrew (our founder/ceo) testified before congress to improve their clean beauty laws to make the industry safer for everyone — regardless if they buy beautycounter products. i watched a video from her last night that ensured the company is doing anything they can think of to help during this hard time for so many. but … people are going to continue to wash their hair. people are going to run out of lotions and might want to feel good and apply mascara and lip gloss while working at home. i know i certainly feel more put together when that happens. the point is, the beautycounter retail stores are shut down, but nothing else has paused there. they’re showing up for the customers, and also for the consultants who depend on the company for income. they’ve waived the enrollment fee through 3/31 (so it’s been extended twice), and created a starter kit of samples for $100, which has never happened. it’s literally never been easier to join. here’s a flashback to meeting gregg at the retail store in nyc last year! i’ve been in a weird spot in deciding what to do with this space and with my beautycounter business during this time. and i’ve shared that everything surrounding us has had a direct effect on us as well. scott’s job is paused … until further notice, and that’s pretty scary. i think it’s important to acknowledge the struggle, but also press on and stay optimistic. so that’s what i’m doing, and why you’ve seen content continue to appear on the regular. if i can lift somebody’s spirits and provide a lighthearted distraction, then it’s a win! that said, i need to mention that the entire beautycounter website is 10% off through 3/31! this sale was supposed to be for new customers only, but they decided to expand it to everyone. the best part is that regimens, collections and the flawless in five are included in the sale, too. (all are usually excluded from site-wide sales, as they’re already discounted!) if you’ve never ordered before and don’t know where to start, send a message over to beautycounter@lifeinleggings.com and/or fill out this quick survey. i’ll get back to you with customized suggestions on what products would be best for you, and would love to chat. thank you so much for supporting my business, and … well, there may or may not be a huge beautycounter giveaway coming to those in the bootcamp and who subscribe to the newsletter. just sayin’. #spreadjoy favorite lil posts » 12 beneficial things to do during social distancing i don’t want to dance around the fact that what the world is experiencing with the covid-19 outbreak is uncanny. it’s also scary. but, a lot of what is happening is out of our control, and the last thing we need to do is create extra stress and worry for ourselves. so. let’s talk about social distancing, how we can get through this, and even use the time that we have at home to our advantage! » indoor/outdoor at-home strength circuit get moving at home with this indoor or outdoor workout … all you need is a set of medium dumbbells, a weight plate, a kettlebell, or even just a rock you can grab outside! all right, friends. it’s been a long one today and i have a lot of preparing to do for next week. i truly wish you can find some light to hold onto through the hardships going on, and i wish you a safe and well weekend ahead. talk soon! xo related posts: friday favorites #202: week of 5/19 friday favorites #199: week of 4/6 friday favorites #200: week of 4/20 friday favorites #201: week of 4/27 friday favorites #203: week of 6/15 about heather heather is a blogger, studio manager, nasm-certified personal trainer, and new mom living in new york city. life in leggings is a personal healthy lifestyle blog that follows her adventures in the city and helps others reach their goals by sharing quick and healthy meals, challenging workouts, and everyday fitness tips. thanks so much for stopping by! « 12 beneficial things to do during social distancing running & strength outdoor workout » leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment notify me of followup comments via e-mail name * email * website current ye@r * leave this field empty welcome follow facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter follow search stay in the loop with newsletter updates and exclusive promotions! email address: categories categories select category anniversaries appetizers aspen & cali auditions baby bachelorette party baking barre beauty beautycounter bible quotes blogging blue diamond books breakfast bridal party bridal shower broadway bucket list budget cardio casseroles causes celebrations charities chicken circuit training classes classpass coffee talk coffee talks & thoughts concerts conferences countdowns cpt culture dance day in the life decor desserts detroit dining in michigan dinner diy entertainment faith fall family faqs fashion fashion favorites fitness fitness fashion food friday favorites gifts giveaways grocery hauls group fitness guest posts hair hair & beauty tips half marathon training halloween health healthy eating holiday gift guides holidays home honeymoon interviews lean beef lil baby lil giveaway week lil workout wednesdays looking back lunch makeup mimm motivation moving nails nasm new jersey new york new york city news no bake recipes on-the-go organization orlando pastas photo dump pregnancy press projects q&a races random thoughts and things recipe recaps recipes reviews roadie round-ups running salads scott side dishes skin smoothies snacks soups sponsored sports spring stitch fix summer surveys thanksgiving things i’ve learned in my 30s thinking out loud thought of the day training travel turkey tutorials uncategorized vegan vegetarian vendors videos wedding wedding hints wedding recaps weddings weekend in photos weekly workouts wiaw winter words of wisdom workout roundups workouts yoga twitter tweets by @lifenleggings pinterest copyright © 2020 · foodie child theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in copyright © life in leggings 2020 | designed by murnan creative