see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login live chat software, but more helpful. say farewell to overwhelming chat volume, staffing nightmares, and frustrated customers abandoned in chat windows. ready to make your website more helpful? free 15-day trial get a demo your browser does not support the video tag. happy customers, fewer chats beacon puts your help content front and center so your customers stay on track. every self-service answer is one less chat for your team. lead with instant answers you can recommend articles based on the page customers are viewing, so they don't even have to search. self-help is fun now browsing articles is easy, and customers never have to leave the page. easy escalation when customers can’t find an answer, help from a real person is just a couple clicks away. "beacon allows our customers to chat or email in, but most importantly provides them direct access to docs because we want to offer them self-help before reaching out." — ashley, customer support specialist at teamsnap your browser does not support the video tag. don't leave customers hanging great experiences happen when you set the right expectations. that's why beacon never shows a live chat window unless someone is available to help. a chatbot that helps help bot won't waste your customer's time. it's only there to connect you with a real person. give customers a choice when chat is available, customers can reach out using the channel that works best for them. flexibility to meet your goals customize the user experience to meet your goals with beacon modes. guide customers toward a self-service path, encourage visitors to chat or email, or display both options side-by-side. self service visitors don't see contact options until viewing help articles neutral visitors see help content and contact options side-by-side ask first visitors see contact options prioritized over help content it’s more than just live chat software. beacon is a better way to talk with your customers. get started see help scout in action. get a demo tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout