home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog 15 things only soccer players will understand june 26, 2019 by erin weiss 3 comments now that the women's world cup team is doing so darn good, i wanted to bring back this post! go team usa! when you grow up playing soccer, it becomes a part of who you are. with the year-round soccer seasons, there ends up being so many things that only people who grew up playing soccer can relate to. these top 15 things bring me back to my childhood soccer days and make me … [read more...] cute halloween treats october 12, 2017 by erin weiss leave a comment cute halloween treats that are easy to make and will be a hit at your next halloween party! scroll through the 20+ halloween recipes and feel free to pin any to remember for later! mummy pops {let's dish} … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 best fall drinks & cocktails october 1, 2017 by erin weiss leave a comment make sure to hover over this image and share/pin to pinterest to remember these for later! … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 iron tek review july 20, 2017 by erin weiss leave a comment this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of iron-tek. all opinions are 100% mine. hello everyone! it's been a few weeks since i've posted and i'm sorry about being mia. i've been beyond swamped at work and have been staying super busy outside of work every evening as well. this leaves very little time to blog lately but i plan on changing that soon. pre soccer … [read more...] rugged maniac 2017 – charleston april 28, 2017 by erin weiss 1 comment hey guys! guess what i did again??? i did the rugged maniac charleston again this year! mud runs are seriously one of my favorite things in the world to do and the rugged maniac always puts on a good race and such a fun atmosphere. it was at boone hall plantation again this year and they have such a great spot for this type of event. remember my post last year when i did … [read more...] diy salt dough paw print ornament december 20, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment i have been all about some pinterest and diy adventures lately. my latest goal was to find an easy way to make an ornament with my dog's name on it for her first christmas. i started searching pinterest and found out about the fabulous world of salt dough (apparently i've been hiding under a rock for my whole life and have never heard of this amazingly easy stuff!). i … [read more...] popsugar november must have box november 22, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment one of my favorite days of the month is here! my popsugar november must have box was at my doorstep for me to try and needless to say, another awesome popsugar november must have box is in the books! this subscription box never disappoints. my absolute favorite part of this month's box was the adorable bracelet by kenda scott. i literally have worn it every day since i got … [read more...] 5 get fit tips for every day energy november 7, 2016 by erin weiss 6 comments this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of clif bar & company. all opinions are 100% mine. are you stuck in a cubicle all day and just counting down the minutes until you can hit the gym and get your sweat on? do you hate that it seems like 70% of your awake hours are spent sitting at a computer sedentary? this is the life i live as well, but have found many … [read more...] popsugar october must have box october 27, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment popsugar sent me the october must have box to try and needless to say, another awesome popsugar october must have box is in the books! this subscription box never disappoints. this month was filled with some great new products that i can’t wait to try (especially the bubble bath and hot chocolate out of my new mug!) now that the weather is getting cooler, this box nailed … [read more...] 50 funny workout tanks august 27, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment too legit to quit burnout tank find the too legit to quit tank here. fit-ish (works out but definitely likes donuts) tank find the fit-ish (works out but definitely likes donuts) tank here i only do butt stuff at the gym tank find the i only do butt stuff at the gym tank here. friday is my second favorite "f" word tank find the friday is my second favorite "f" word … [read more...] pages: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in