home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog about me about live life active my name is erin and i’m an active, food loving, sports minded, midwestern girl who is now living in charleston, sc. i’ve always battled with emotional eating. when i’m sad, mad or even happy, i will turn to food as a means to cope or celebrate my emotions. i’m working on my relationship with food to make it less of an emotional connection. how i got started i started live life active to document my journey (if you’re interested in starting a blog yourself, i’d highly suggest doing so – here’s my post on how to start a blog). starting a personal blog was one of the best decisions i’ve made in my life to keep myself accountable on my health and it unexpectedly soon turned into quite a lucrative business adventure as well! anyway, if you’re on the fence of starting your own blog. do it!!! a year from now, you’ll wish you started today. never mind, scratch that, you’ll wish you started yesterday. moral of the story…best decision i’ve made thus far. before and after ugh … this is the hardest thing to show to the world!!!! here are some of my before and after pictures. the two pictures are about 3 years apart however i didn’t try to make a change in my body until about 2 years after the left picture was taken. it took me about a year to get to my after picture by learning to eat clean and incorporate weight training in my routine. the left picture was before i was introduced to weight training. at the point of this picture, i would workout every once in a while..and by working out…i mean running on the treadmill for 30 minutes once or twice a week. the right picture is a picture from my first bikini competition. my heaviest weight was in college where i weighed about 30 lbs more than i do today. through healthy eating and exercise, i’ve been able to lose those 30 pounds and maintain a healthy lifestyle 🙂 i’m far from perfect after i did my show (above after picture) i’ve battled a few issues of getting back to a healthy lifestyle. when you go to such an extreme for a show, you have a hard time remembering what’s normal. for my show, i got to a weight that i didn’t know my body could even get to and to be honest, i don’t want to ever be that weight again. being at 115lbs for my show is not maintainable or realistic to be for more than a day. i’m still working on dealing with this jump back to reality, but i think i’ve finally found a healthy balance between staying fit, eating healthy and still going out and having fun with my friends on the weekends! i’m living a very busy life. i work full time at a hospital, own a business, have 2 dogs, a boyfriend, workout about 3-5 times a week, eat clean and still manage to find time to let loose, travel and have fun! what’s next for me i’ve recently taken my love for fitness to another level and got my certificate in personal training, competed in my first fitness america bikini competition, started a career in fitness modeling and started online-training clients across the country!!! i have absolutely found my passion which is helping others learn how to live a healthier and more active life! if you have any questions or comments, feel free to ask! you can also email me directly at livelifeactive@gmail.com. disclaimer: the articles written on this blog are not written by medical professionals. it is a personal blog, and the writings found here are opinions based on personal experience. i am not a doctor so you should always consult your physician before starting any exercise program if you have any existing medical conditions. live life active is not affiliated with weight watchers or weightwatchers.com. although i appreciate the weight watchers diet, i am in no way affiliated with them. weight watchers livelifeactive is a separate program. privacy policy don’t forget to follow along with my journey on facebook! (if you’re interested in starting a blog yourself, i’d highly suggest doing so – here’s my post on how to start a blog) popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in