see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login help scout classes free training from the help scout team. recurring classes getting started with help scout new to help scout? get a full tour of the app and get all your questions answered with one of our resident customer champions. all times in , | getting started (45 min) register × you're registering for a class on: monday, march30 11am edt , | getting started (45 min) register × you're registering for a class on: tuesday, march 31 12pm edt , | getting started (45 min) register × you're registering for a class on: wednesday, april1 4pm edt , | getting started (45 min) register × you're registering for a class on: thursday, april2 9am edt , | getting started (45 min) register × you're registering for a class on: monday, april6 11am edt advanced classes get started with beacon and live chat beacon makes it easy to be helpful. it’s instant answers, live chat, and conversation history all rolled into one customer companion. we’ll show you how to create your first beacon — improving customer satisfaction and reducing conversation volume along the way. all times in , | class + q&a (30 min) register × you're registering for a class on: wednesday, april1 12pm edt level up your support game check out our jumpstart videos, in-depth help scout classes, and best practice deep dives to up your support game! 28:31 product leveraging beacon api learn how to update customer profile and custom attributes, segment your customers and prospects, and get custom snippets for popular actions. 31:42 product beacon basics get a walk-through of your beacon settings and learn how to provide instant, inline answers, recommend answers and much more. 8:25 product learn about docs knowledge base get a quick tour of help scout’s integrated knowledge base in this introduction video. empower your customers to find answers when they need them. 48:38 product beacon 2.0 preview live chat, self-serve, and email — oh my! find out what everyone’s chatting about, and see a full demo of what's coming to help scout. 51:23 product automating with workflows the ins and outs of workflows, with lots of examples to make your team more productive and keep you organized. 58:32 product get more from help scout reports dig deeper into your reporting stats to discover opportunities to improve your metrics, service, and roi. 44:38 product get organized with tags watch a help scout demo that’s all about tags. from best practices to in-depth examples, get the skinny on using tags for organizing, automating, and reporting. 40:15 product what's up docs? what’s the easiest way to make your team more productive? we talk best practices for setting up a docs site and beacon to let your customers help themselves. 59:24 product help scout, gdpr, and you! watch megan chinburg, help scout's security lead, explain the steps we are taking to bring help scout into gdpr compliance for the may deadline. 68:29 product so, you're a new admin this is for you if you are still learning the ropes of your new role. find out the best ways to optimize help scout for your team. 55:30 product how to get organized and improve reporting learn how custom fields & teams can add structure to your setup. categorize conversations to enhance reporting, manage priorities, and make search a breeze. 56:32 product top 15 help scout integrations learn about our customers’ favorite integrations that keep their teams on the same page and set them up for success. 55:56 product make help scout your communications hub we cover how to bring chat, facebook messenger, phone, and other channels into help scout to improve your customer experience. 29:35 product supercharge your customer experience with hubspot find out how the new integration can improve your support and success efforts and keep your growth team in the loop. 25:39 product integrate with salesforce + jira learn how to share crm and conversation information between salesforce and help scout, and sync up your jira issue tracking. 61:16 process a peer approach to managing support learn the strategies our help scout support team employs to work collaboratively in the queue, following a shared ownership model. with abigail phillips, help scout's head of support. 30:06 process h-api-ness 2.0 - new mailbox api custom reporting, specialized integrations, and advanced automations are just some of the things you can do with our 2.0 mailbox api. find out what's new in this release. 41:14 process making the most of downtime is it your slow season? take the time to make help scout work smarter and harder for your team. we’ll go over 10 winning ideas to make you more productive when it’s all back to business. 42:41 product easy automation for busy support teams join thomas hils and andra roston of zapier, and mo mckibbin of help scout, for a nuts and bolts live chat on using zapier to deepen existing integrations. pre-recorded webinar 30 minutes register × short on time? watch the demo now tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout