skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: living room enhance your living room with fresh ideas for furniture, paint colors, lighting and more. break these bad living room cleaning habits & transform your living space are bad living room cleaning habits keeping you from your best home? image: nelleg/getty images cleaning is a hassle. but you might be making it harder on yourself than is absolutely necessary. whether you’re tidying up your bedroom, kitchen or… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in living room 6 living room storage tricks from top interior design pros if you've ever wondered how to make the most of your living room storage, you're not alone. nearly every homeowner is on the hunt for ways to keep their most-used room functional while still keeping it aesthetically appealing. in light of that, we decided to ask the experts for their advice. we asked six interior design pros to share their best living room storage tricks. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in living room these 4 living room trends for 2019 will inspire your next home design project every year, new trends hit the interior design landscape and 2019 is no different. in particular, this year there is an emphasis on living room trends. we’ve decided to take a closer look at them today. read on to learn about these new living room trends and tips on how… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in living room 25 gorgeous minimalist fireplaces to keep you cozy this winter minimalist fireplaces prove that function can follow form and still, well, function. image: prentiss balance wickline architects in the winter, having a fireplace is a little slice of heaven. when the sun sets behind the horizon, it invites you to grab a cozy throw, a book and… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in living room interior designer inspiration for styling your coffee table styling your coffee table sets the vibe for your entire living room. image: pottery barn we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. we love the… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in living room still think you don’t need a formal living room? the formal living room has become an endangered species. freshome reached out to experts around the country, and the responses were the same. “there was a time when everyone wanted three bedrooms, two baths, formal living and dining and a basement den – but those days are over,” says… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in living room hate that brick fireplace? 12 ways to make it look better your brick fireplace is a dependable source of heat and, if it’s wood-burning, also helps keep your heating costs low. but the outdated design may have become an eyesore, and years of soot can make it look even worse. we found several ways to make your brick fireplace look better… by terri williams on march 13, 2020 in living room 15 inspiring sectional sofa designs whether you’re looking to redo a living room or you have a brand new room to fill, you may want to consider using a sectional sofa. by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in living room here are the 6 best tv wall mount systems on amazon and why they rock we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a share of sales from the links on this page. amazon is a great place to source and buy a multitude of products. most items ship free if you’re a prime member, and amazon… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in living room 20 of the coolest indoor fireplaces indoor fireplaces have been a mainstay in homes for centuries. in the early days, they served purely functional roles in the home before modern-day heating systems. but now, even with automatic heating systems, the feeling of relaxing beside a fire is hard to resist. today, fireplaces occupy a speci… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in living room 1 2 … 5 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss