welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog learning advice from an expert: meet nina published on: mar 16, 2020 by livia halltari 1163 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post for someone who loves teaching, designing learning experiences at a global scale brings together all of its best elements: joining learner and instructor perspectives, supporting learners to achieve their goals, and engaging with learning scientists to advance education from research. that’s one of the things we learned from our conversation with nina huntemann, senior director of academics and research at edx, in this installment of... read more about learning advice from an expert: meet nina community feature: edxers share what international women’s day means to them published on: mar 08, 2020 by livia halltari 1364 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post experience is a great teacher, and everyone has lessons to offer in this regard. that’s why each time we interview people across edx hq for our edx insider series, we try to gather a unique point of view from that person’s specific experience. lessons we’ve learned span across career advice, tips for returning to work, team-building, and learning styles. to celebrate international women’s day, we’re... read more about community feature: edxers share what international women’s day means to them making time for innovation: meet stephanie published on: mar 02, 2020 by livia halltari 1637 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what does it take to innovate? some things that may pop in your head probably include: thinking outside of the status quo, bright minds, making room for mistakes and learning from them. but what often gets overlooked is perhaps the most obvious answer — time. that’s one of the lessons we learned from our chat with stephanie, cmo of edx, in this edition of edx... read more about making time for innovation: meet stephanie it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business published on: feb 28, 2020 by livia halltari 2426 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in a rapidly evolving world, workplaces are changing in ways that affect every aspect of conducting business. from how products are designed to how decisions are made, businesses are becoming more complex and data-driven than ever. this shift is bound to influence everything between your human resources department to information technology. the good news? this change means new emerging opportunities to innovate and find competitive... read more about it’s no longer business as usual: 10 courses for the future of business grit, google, and gratitude: meet nimisha published on: feb 19, 2020 by livia halltari 2307 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post a recurring theme in the field of computer science seems to be the rate at which new capabilities are discovered means that it’s never too late to start learning. this rang true in nimisha’s story, edx’s chief architect, who shared her best advice for those new to (or in her case, returning to) web development in this edition of edx insider. how has your educational... read more about grit, google, and gratitude: meet nimisha edx insider: data analysis in marketing published on: jan 31, 2020 by livia halltari 2335 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post even if you don’t work in the data science field, data analysis skills and tools are still very likely to come in handy. we chatted with a few members of the edx marketing team to find out the ways these skills arise in their day-to-day work, how they were able to pick up on tools in this field despite not having a background in data... read more about edx insider: data analysis in marketing edx insider with anant agarwal published on: jan 22, 2020 by livia halltari 1852 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post welcome to the latest edition of edx insider, where we give you a behind-the-scenes look at edx hq. in this special installment, we sit down with edx ceo & founder anant agarwal to discuss innovation, edx’s history, its future, and more. what thing are you most proud of that edx has accomplished since 2012? 2012 was an incredibly exciting time, when we had no idea... read more about edx insider with anant agarwal top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond published on: jan 02, 2020 by livia halltari 4396 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this next year and decade won’t be defined by a singular trend, but rather a combination of emerging technologies and skill sets — the growing focus on ai, automation, digital leadership, and more. an easy start to get a leg up on the trends is one course, but to dive even deeper, consider starting a program. start exploring our hand-picked list of top-ranked programs created... read more about top-ranked programs that will prepare you for 2020 and beyond these knowledge areas will define the next decade published on: jan 01, 2020 by livia halltari 4612 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post will 2020 be the year of ai, the year of automation, or the year of data? the answer isn’t any one of these. the next year, and more broadly, the next decade, will be defined by a combination of new technologies, with a new emphasis on the necessity to reskill and upskill to keep up with the new prevalence of artificial intelligence, machine learning, cybersecurity,... read more about these knowledge areas will define the next decade becoming environmentally conscious: meet the edx sustainability team published on: nov 22, 2019 by livia halltari 2691 views no comments posted in: edx insider like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the sustainability team, a group of people committed to making the edx workplace more environmentally sustainable, was formed during hackathon xxii — a quarterly event with the goal of driving innovation and problem solving. the team’s first initiative was measuring edx’s carbon footprint and collecting potential projects to make a positive impact. the group has since grown, and has taken on a wider array of... read more about becoming environmentally conscious: meet the edx sustainability team page 1 of 3 current page: 1 page 2 page 3 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close