welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog tips for successful online learning published on: mar 16, 2020 by liz joyce 3298 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re new to online learning, first of all, welcome! learning online is a fantastic way to increase your knowledge and skills in a unique, flexible environment with its own distinct strengths and opportunities. whether you’re trying online classes for the first time or looking for ways to strengthen your current habits and approaches, there are a few key areas to consider to set yourself... read more about tips for successful online learning hybrid jobs: a 4-minute primer on fast-growing, lucrative career paths published on: mar 06, 2020 by liz joyce 2286 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post jobs are mutating to be unexpected, hybrid combinations of skills that burning glass technologies call “the secret of career success in the digital world ahead.” according to their hybrid job economy report, hybrid roles are growing at twice the rate of the overall job market, and are 20-40% higher-paying than their more traditional counterparts. in fact, often, the introduction of a single skill can increase... read more about hybrid jobs: a 4-minute primer on fast-growing, lucrative career paths this mit program is building the next generation of finance leaders published on: mar 04, 2020 by liz joyce 1851 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when asked what the hot topic in finance will be in 2020, paul mende, senior lecturer in the finance group at the mit sloan school of management, says “risk.” “financial markets and the global economy are facing increasing challenges beyond the realm of traditional forecasting and decision-making,” mende said. the challenges of modern global markets and increased opportunity for finance innovation is part of what... read more about this mit program is building the next generation of finance leaders your next step in business isn’t a new job title, it’s a new lens published on: feb 26, 2020 by liz joyce 1924 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post business classes and degrees traditionally rely on theories developed for a products-based economy and are built in discrete units of accounting, marketing, finance, and so on. meanwhile, the economy has drastically changed. “we’re in a time of profound economic change. and in fact we believe that the economic change today is as big as the economic change a century ago with the rise of giant... read more about your next step in business isn’t a new job title, it’s a new lens purdue engineering graduate degrees top 2020 national online program rankings published on: feb 20, 2020 by liz joyce 1377 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post online master’s programs continue to become increasingly popular, for their accessibility, flexibility, affordability, and more. in the same way that students look to resources like rankings to help direct on-campus decisions, online program rankings can help to signal schools and programs that offer the academic rigor, quality, and impact that matches your goals. the 2020 best online programs rankings from u.s. news & world report,... read more about purdue engineering graduate degrees top 2020 national online program rankings beyond the buzzword: experts share 3 predictions for ai in the next decade published on: feb 17, 2020 by liz joyce 1559 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post linkedin named artificial intelligence (ai) specialist the #1 emerging job in the u.s. for 2020. the field has been called “the new electricity.” but the transformational impact of electricity took time, and completely new ways of thinking, to achieve. while experts agree that ai will be a game changer, when and how remain open questions. so what is artificial intelligence poised to deliver? what role... read more about beyond the buzzword: experts share 3 predictions for ai in the next decade the computer science skills you need were just invented published on: feb 10, 2020 by liz joyce 2857 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post computer science isn’t new, but what it looks like is. the computer science skills, languages, libraries, and tools professionals use every day are constantly shifting, now more than ever. it’s a field that demands continuous learning, but that anyone can jump into right away. opportunity is everywhere and endless. “what makes computer science really interesting is the rate at which it changes means that no... read more about the computer science skills you need were just invented advice from an ibm data scientist: start with python and you’ll go far published on: feb 05, 2020 by liz joyce 6667 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post across industries, data scientists are bringing buzzwords to life: artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data, data visualization. behind the buzzwords are software skills like python, r, sql, and java. the list goes on and can sound intimidating, but getting started is more approachable than ever and the value of foundational, entry-level data science skills is taking off. “today with data science, for a lot of... read more about advice from an ibm data scientist: start with python and you’ll go far data science: a 21st century job skill for every discipline published on: jan 28, 2020 by liz joyce 3163 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2020 and the coming decade, you no longer need a phd to work in data science. there’s not only a job market for a wider range of data science skills — and affordable onramps to gain those skills at any level — but also a fast-growing shift to the perspective that these skills are essential for any discipline, in any industry. “data science is... read more about data science: a 21st century job skill for every discipline stackable, modular learning: education built for the future of work published on: jan 16, 2020 by liz joyce 4461 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the workplace has changed: as technology continues to rapidly transform industries and jobs, staying relevant and competitive requires continuously updating, diversifying, and building completely new skill sets. on one hand, this new reality requires continuous investment in education, which can feel daunting. traditional education requires significant financial and opportunity cost, sometimes without a clear return. but the delivery of education is changing to adapt to... read more about stackable, modular learning: education built for the future of work page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close