newsletters coronavirus cheat sheet politics entertainment world news half full culture u.s. news scouted travel lloyd grove editor at large @thelloydgrove lloyd.grove@thedailybeast.com lloyd grove is editor at large for the daily beast. formerly a contributor to new york magazine and a contributing editor for condé nast portfolio, he wrote a gossip column for the new york daily news from 2003 to 2006. prior to that, he wrote the reliable source column for the washington post, where he spent 23 years covering politics, the media, and other subjects. cnn, msnbc bosses ignore staff pleas to cut trump pressers ‘no public benefit’ trump’s daily pandemic briefings have devolved into an “open-mic night” full of “misinformation,” cable staffers said, but networks are still broadcasting nearly every moment live. lloyd grove, maxwell tani published mar. 25, 2020 scientology chief is a coronavirus denier, says top critic ‘planetary bullbait’ according to a dismissive internal memo rife with scare-quotes, the church of scientology seems to be officially scoffing at the coronavirus pandemic. lloyd grove published mar. 24, 2020 sean spicer makes a surreal debut as white house ‘reporter’ other side of podium months after his eight-week stint on “dancing with the stars,” the former trump flack showed up friday to a white house press briefing—as a reporter. lloyd grove published mar. 20, 2020 a new documentary exposes trump’s parade of charlatans the fakest of news andrew rossi’s new hbo documentary “after truth,” premiering march 19, tackles disinformation and fake news, and is especially timely in the midst of the novel coronavirus. lloyd grove published mar. 19, 2020 al roker pulled off air as coronavirus hits the ‘today’ show exclusive morning sickness a staffer for the third hour of the morning show has tested positive for the coronavirus leaving nbc to try and trace their contacts with other members of the team at 30 rock. jamie ross, lloyd grove published mar. 16, 2020 why is ‘quack’ dr. oz on nbc’s ‘coronavirus crisis team’? bad medicine? the famed tv doctor has been accused by medical journals and associations alike of peddling misinformation, but he’s been all over nbc’s coverage of the growing pandemic. lloyd grove published mar. 09, 2020 msnbc boss went to d.c. to beg chris matthews to quit how it happened the “hardball” host’s wife had long expressed concerns to msnbc brass that matthews’ increasingly controversial on-air antics would ruin him, sources told the daily beast. lloyd grove, maxwell tani, andrew kirell published mar. 03, 2020 jack welch, the ‘gold standard’ business icon, dies at 84 leader the former chairman who transformed general electric into the world's biggest company was revered by global business leaders. lloyd grove published mar. 02, 2020 o’keefe’s journalism sage rejects his stings: ‘good grief’ ‘it’s distressing’ in an occasionally combative chat after getting an abc news reporter suspended, the right-wing star cites a media expert to validate him. that ethicist rejects o’keefe’s tactics. lloyd grove published feb. 27, 2020 nyt publishes taliban ‘terrorist,’ all hell breaks loose ‘disgrace’ internal and external outrage exploded after the paper published an op-ed by a man whose family “network” was linked to the kidnapping of a times reporter. lloyd grove published feb. 20, 2020 load more coronavirus cheat sheet politics entertainment world news half full culture u.s. news scouted travel about contact tips jobs help privacy code of ethics & standards terms & conditions copyright & trademark sitemap coupons © 2020 the daily beast company llc advertise with us