skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / articles / local by flywheel published jul 6, 2017 ❥ sponsor i've switched all my local wordpress development over to local by flywheel. i heard about it from y'all when we did a poll not to long ago about local wordpress development. bottom line: it's really good. it does everything you want it to, well, with zero hassle, and nothing more. running multiple wordpress installs (php, mysql, web server) that's kind of the whole point. local by flywheel spins up a local site for you with all the dependencies that wordpress needs. just by picking a few options and giving the site a name, you've spun up a new wordpress install in a few seconds. and it's ready to go! nice ui surely what local by flywheel is doing under the hood is quite complicated, but the ui for the app isn't at all. i'm a big fan of apps like this. the super clean ui makes everything feel so easy and simple, despite it actually being complex and powerful. just the information and controls you need! https (ssl) the web is moving more and more toward all-https, which is fantastic. with all the setup options local by flywheel offers, you can get your production and development versions of your site pretty close. we should be taking that another step further and be working locally over https, if our production sites are. local by flywheel doesn't just make it easy, it automatically sets up https for you! and of course, it just works. you probably want to trust that local certificate though to make it even smoother. but wait! don't follow my awkward and slightly complex instructions. there is a one-click button right in local by flywheel to trust the certificate. combining with codekit for all my simple mostly-solo projects, i've long been a fan of having codekit watch the project, so i preprocess all my css and javascript, optimize my images, and all that good task runner stuff. that's easy, just point the codekit browser refreshing url at the local by flywheel url. migrating another one-click button i love in local by flywheel is the one that jumps you right to sequel pro. this was mighty handy for me as i was migrating from a couple of different setups. for a zillion years i used mamp, and configured sequel pro to be my database manager. then for a bit, i switched over to docker to manage my local wordpress stuff, which was fun and interesting but was ultimately wasn't as easy as i wanted it to be. i also used sequel pro when i was in that phase. so i was able to really quickly export and import the databases where i needed them! it's also worth mentioning that if you don't have an existing local setup you're migrating from, but do have a production site, i highly recommend wp db migrate pro for yanking down that production database in an extremely painless fashion. live link as if that wasn't enough, they tossed in one more really cool little feature. one click on the "live link" feature, and it fires up an ngrok url for you. that's a live-on-the-internet url you can use to share your localhost. send it to a client! debug a mobile issue! very cool. tldr: i'm a fan of local by flywheel! need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. comments goose permalink to comment# july 6, 2017 when the article starts with “i’ve switched all my local wordpress development over to local by flywheel”, is that chris speaking, or the sponsor. if it’s not chris, he should be more careful of the content of sponsored content because it reads as though he’s started using flywheel when he hasn’t. chris coyier permalink to comment# july 6, 2017 it me. dalton permalink to comment# july 6, 2017 i was one of the ones who voted for local in the earlier poll. it’s a great piece of software, i’ve been using it since the early days when it was a paid product. i’ll also add that it’s not just for wordpress, although it’s clearly optimized for wp. it also works great for craft cms, as well as others, i’m sure. james permalink to comment# july 6, 2017 if anyone has a quick, pain-free way of migrating a bunch of local sites from desktopserver, then i’d be onto it. pd permalink to comment# july 6, 2017 reading your https section, i thought you were going to say someone had solved this annoying certificate exception malarkey. with let’s encrypt automating ssl certificates, when will we start to see transparent use of https within applications like this? we should be able to get certificates and use them in dev scenarios just as easily as production, shouldn’t we? the add exception thing is an oddity that will hopefully be consigned to the past soon. sam permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 sounds good! i’ll be trying this out on the weekend! thanks brendan permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 hey chris, awesome suggestion, thanks so much for posting! from playing around with it this morning i can already tell it will save me tons of time and i’m sure it will get even better. one snag i ran into was getting the external server address to work on codekit – were there any extra steps you ran besides what you showed in the article above? i turned on ‘external server required’ and added my .dev address from local, but the codekit preview icon still links out to the bonjour address. the .dev address works, but codekit doesn’t auto-refresh it. just curious if you did something else that i didn’t pick up on! brendan permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 welp, i’ve got egg on my face! i didn’t realize that custom dev domains weren’t part of the deal with codekit. it’s working exactly as it should. jon christensen permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 ever since the the poll article, i had the (mis)fortune of moving to a new development machine. when i did, i decided to give local a whirl, as it looked pretty good at that time, and i was looking into other setups. i really think it has helped me a lot in my local development workflow versus my old setup (mamp pro). since i do development on osx and windows (crazy, right?), i actually liked that i could use the same program in both places in the same way. and for free too! it has really sped things up for me as well by setting the wp install defaults and then doing a pull down of a site with wp db migrate pro. i can pretty much be up and running with a site in a few minutes. qa likes that i can send them “preview” links of issues we’re fixing, and i like that it is easier to debug on mobile and my vms. i’m thinking i may recommend our whole dev team be on it, but we’ll see. i’ve already seen a few updates for the program since i got it, so it seems like they’re continuing to improve it. katherine permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 would love to see a walk through video jamie bell permalink to comment# july 10, 2017 hey katherine! we have a nice lil’ demo video of local by flywheel here: check it out! jordan permalink to comment# july 7, 2017 hey chris, you mentioned using wp migrate db pro. what is it that you enjoy about it? have you tried the all in one migration plugin? it exports your entire site into a single file for upload. database, files, everything! you need to pay for the unlimited extension for large sites, but it’s a one off fee. https://en-ca.wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-migration/ chris coyier permalink to comment# july 8, 2017 there are no files at all with wp db migrate pro, it just communicates directly between local & production (or any two sites, really) and does its thing. gary pickles permalink to comment# july 9, 2017 hi, have you tried all in one word migration with local flywheel, i couldn’t get it to activate after installing it? gary mic sumner permalink to comment# july 10, 2017 also important to note is that local by flywheel is completely free! and that they’ve got a great community forum/discourse where you can ask and expect a quick reply. the community forums’ vibe is really good. but it’s important to note as well that this is wordpress only. ale permalink to comment# july 16, 2017 is very good, yes. other program good is desktopserver, it allow all the things you’re write and direct deploy to production server, but much of this things are paid. anyway, the two alternatives are great. this comment thread is closed. if you have important information to share, please contact us. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers