home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog locked in and knocked up – i never thought my first pregnancy would be like this – corona virus and pregnancy march 22, 2020 by erin weiss leave a comment hi friends! as you all know, i’m currently 21 weeks pregnant. my pregnancy started off as a very normal and standard pregnancy, but as weeks go by, my “normal” pregnancy has now been completely derailed due to the corona virus covid-19. i’m currently living in california and our state is on lock down so i really haven’t left my house in about 14 days now other than taking the dogs for walks. corona virus and pregnancy (covid19) most of you don’t know our story of my road to pregnancy, but the quick version of it all is… i’m 36 years old and it took a long dang time but we finally did it! i’m so thrilled and grateful to be pregnant. i just never thought my first and possibly only pregnancy experience (due to my age and difficulty) would be quite like this. it’s becoming so limited and i’m not able to do the things i had always dreamt of doing when pregnant. i feel selfish saying how i feel because there’s many worse things that could be happening to me right now but it’s still adding an insane amount of stress and anxiety to my pregnancy. corona virus and pregnancy the corona virus is in full force around the world now but there is still very limited research yet on how covid19 affects pregnancy and newborn children. my amount of anxiety with pregnancy continues to rise and i know from other pregnant friends, i am not alone in these thoughts. i thought i’d share all the things that i’m adapting to, now that the corona virus is spreading so rapidly. locked in and knocked up – my current concerns and stressors i’ve been hearing some hospitals are not allowing your husband in delivery room. i cannot imagine delivering my first child alone. i probably have to cancel my baby shower that’s in early may. i’ll either have to do a virtual baby shower or cancel completely. my parents may never see me pregnant. i live in california and my family lives in chicago. this may be my only pregnancy and flying is not safe for pregnant women at this time. worrying about having the virus when giving birth and being separated from our baby. anxiety about going to a hospital with infected people to give birth. i’m wondering if i’ll be quarantined at home and need to deliver at home with no medical staff. i’m scared to go to my obgyn appointments when they should be fun and exciting times. i can no longer go get a massage or my physical therapy appointments for my chronic neck and back pain and it’s getting worse with pregnancy. the “first time mom” classes are being cancelled in order to learn all the essentials that i need so very badly to learn how to take care of an infant. anxiety about having diapers, wipes and what i need in stock when baby arrives. right now the grocery stores are stripped of these essentials and i have none of that yet i’m anxious as my parents are no longer able to work due to the virus shutting their work places down …and sad about stupid little things like not being able to go out shopping for baby stuff and doing prenatal yoga like i wanted to try again, i know i’m fortunate to be healthy and have a job during this time. i just wanted to share my thoughts on being locked in and knocked up and my thoughts on this corona virus and pregnancy. i know i am not alone in these thoughts from other pregnant mommas out there. we are all in this together! stay well everyone! xoxo, erin filed under: personal, pregnancy tagged with: corona virus and pregnancy, locked in and knocked up, pregnancy and covid19 you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in