kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about logos see also... design video 2016 election hillary clinton politics music remix reagan ray donald trump michael bierut branding typography saul bass movies sports iconic art & design reimagined for the social distancing era posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 while it predates the covid-19 pandemic and its accompanying social distancing by several years, josé manuel ballester’s concealed spaces project reimagines iconic works of art without the people in them (like what’s happening to our public spaces right now). no one showed up for leonardo’s last supper: hieronymus bosch’s the garden of earthly delights is perhaps just as delightful without people: and botticelli’s the birth of venus has been rescheduled: ben greenman, andy baio, and paco conde & roberto fernandez have some suggestions for new album covers: designer jure tovrljan redesigned some company logos for these coronavirus times. coca-cola even modified their own logo on a times square billboard to put some distance between the letters. (via colossal & fast company) update: some emoji designed specifically for covid-19. the earth with the pause button is my favorite. (via sidebar) more about... andy baio art ben greenman design emoji jose manuel ballester jure tovrljan logos music paco conde remix roberto fernandez ads via carbon logos of video game consoles from 1976 to the present posted by jason kottke nov 14, 2019 reagan ray has collected the logos of video game consoles from 1976 to the present. he ignores the first generation of consoles because there would have been too many to include. (historical interlude: i didn’t know gaming consoles were broken down into generations. apparently we’re in the 8th generation now — wii u, ps4, xbox one, and switch.) see also ray’s collections of classic airline logos, record label logos, 80s action figure logos, american car logos, etc.. more about... design logos reagan ray video games metro logos of the world posted by jason kottke oct 30, 2019 from metrobits, a fantastic resource for all things to do with metros and subways around the world, comes this collection of metro logos (older page w/ larger logos here). see also metro fonts (names + designers), fare collection schemes, and ratings of the art and architecture of metro stations from around the world (highest marks go to moscow, paris, saint petersburg, and stockholm). the moscow and saint petersburg stations are incredible. more about... design logos subway the chic 2024 summer olympics logo posted by jason kottke oct 23, 2019 on oct 21, the emblem for the 2024 summer olympics and paralympics was unveiled in paris, site of the games. it features a round symbol that represents a gold medal, the olympic flame, and marianne, the “national personification of the french republic since the french revolution”. the emblem’s marianne is quite chic, so parisian freelance journalist megan clement concocted a vignette of that young woman’s life. it begins like so: the french olympic logo tumbles out of bed on a parisian morning. she tousles her messy bob, dons breton stripes and ballet flats and whisks down the stairs from her fifth-floor apartment to grab a baguette before enigmatically texting two men who are pursuing her romantically. the french olympic logo has an expresso and a cigarette for lunch. (via @legalnomads) more about... 2024 summer olympics design logos megan clement olympic games classic airline logos posted by jason kottke may 20, 2019 reagan ray has collected a bunch of classic logos from american airlines, from the big ones (delta, united) to small regional airlines (pennsylvania central, cardiff and peacock) to those no longer with us (pan am, twa, northwest). i sent him the logo for my dad’s old airline, blue line air express…i hope it makes it in! see also reagan’s collections of record label logos, 80s action figure logos, american car logos, vhs distributor logos, and railway logos. careful, you might spend all day on these… (via @mrgan) update: ray was kind enough to add blue line into the mix! thank you! more about... design flying logos reagan ray the extinction symbol posted by jason kottke apr 23, 2019 with its recent use by the participants in the extinction rebellion, the extinction symbol has become much more widely known, on its way to becoming the peace symbol of the climate movement. the symbol above represents extinction. the circle signifies the planet, while the hourglass inside serves as a warning that time is rapidly running out for many species. the world is currently undergoing a mass extinction event, and this symbol is intended to help raise awareness of the urgent need for change in order to address this crisis. estimates are that somewhere between 30,000 and 140,000 species are becoming extinct every year in what scientists have named the holocene, or sixth mass extinction. this ongoing process of destruction is being caused by the impact of human activity. within the next few decades approximately 50% of all species that now exist will have become extinct. such a catastrophic loss of biodiversity is highly likely to cause widespread ecosystem collapse and consequently render the planet uninhabitable for humans. the symbol and a stencil template are available for download “for non-commercial purposes”. there’s a disclaimer at the bottom of the page about merchandise, which reads in part: no extinction symbol merchandise exists, and it never will do. the free use of the extinction symbol by individuals in their personal artwork or other forms of expression is strongly welcomed and encouraged, but any form of commercial use of the symbol is completely against its ethos and should therefore be refrained from. to reiterate, please do not use the symbol on any items that will be sold, or for any other fundraising purposes. there are no exceptions to this policy. here’s the thing: i want a t-shirt with the extinction symbol on it so i can signify my support (in a small way) for climate justice. if i’m reading this correctly, i can make a t-shirt for myself but not have one made for me? or can i have a single print-on-demand shirt made for me at cost? making my own shirt (i’d need to buy a bunch of single-use supplies) or getting a one-off printed doesn’t seem very climate-friendly at all. how about taking orders from other interested folks (like you all) and selling the shirts at cost? that seems much more climate-friendly but also firmly against the symbol maker’s strict policy. i think we’re bumping up against an inconvenient truth about capitalism here: it is sometimes (or perhaps even often) the most efficient and least wasteful way to produce something because it’s actually a deeply collectivist endeavor. let’s say you’re holding a climate protest, 100,000 people are coming, and those people want to bring shirts or signs or other protest equipment to the protest to “advertise” their displeasure to those watching, near and far. is it more climate friendly for all those people to individually buy supplies and each produce their own things or would it be better to rely on a organization whose sole purpose is to produce protest supplies (using carbon-free energy and materials) and pay them more than the cost of the supplies so they can provide their employees a living wage and even advertise their services a little so they can actually remain in the protest supplies business and take even more advantage of economies of scale to keep prices down? run it as a non-profit if you’d like. that seems far less wasteful to me than people buying one-off supplies, even on a group basis. you might interject here that producing anything that uses any natural resources for such a protest is wasteful and unethical. i think that’s a fair point! what’s the roi for protest materials? is it wasteful to spend a little co2 now to possibly save a bunch of co2 in the future or is it smart? gah, all i want is a shirt to express myself! are there any simple and ethical solutions in a world that’s so densely networked and interconnected? more about... business design global warming logos bauhaus-style logos of famous brands posted by jason kottke mar 13, 2019 to commemorate the 100-year anniversary of the founding of the bauhaus design movement, 99designs challenged their community of designers to reimagine the logos of famous brands in a bauhaus style. (via moss & fog) more about... design logos remix logos for trump’s space force from eight leading designers posted by jason kottke aug 01, 2018 bloomberg businessweek asked eight designers to design a logo for trump’s proposed new branch of the military, space force. 89-year-old milton glaser, designer of the iconic i ❤ ny logo, can still bring the heat: i really really *really* want this on a hat. (via df) more about... design donald trump logos milton glaser hundreds of amazing 1980s tech company logos posted by jason kottke may 30, 2018 this 1985 catalog for engineers contains hundreds and hundreds of tech logos from the 70s and 80s. they are glorious. marcin wichary turned more than 1400 of these logos into a screensaver “for your random viewing pleasure”. more about... design logos marcin wichary famous logos drawn from memory posted by jason kottke sep 26, 2017 signs.com asked dozens of americans to draw the logos of well-known companies from memory, including domino’s, apple, adidas, and starbucks. as you can see, there was a wide range in aptitude and some logos fared better than others; overall the starbucks and foot locker logos were the worst drawn while ikea and target were the best represented. there is also this (a true story): adidas, the second largest sportswear company in the world, acquired its three-stripes logo in 1952 from footwear brand karhu sports for two bottles of whiskey and the equivalent of $2,000. see also drawing all 50 states from memory, can you draw a working bicycle from memory?, and maps drawn from memory. more about... adidas burger king design logos starbucks i’m with her: designing hillary clinton’s campaign identity posted by jason kottke mar 31, 2017 pentagram’s michael bierut and his team designed the identity for hillary clinton’s 2016 presidential campaign (of which i was not initially a fan but came around later). here’s how it happened. i put together a three-person team: me, designer jesse reed, and project manager julia lemle. we would work in secret for the next two months. our first meeting with the clinton team began with a simple statement: “our candidate has 100 percent name recognition.” there is a well-known marketing principle that is often credited to midcentury design legend raymond loewy. he felt that people were governed by two competing impulses: an attraction to the excitement of new things and a yearning for the comfort provided by what we already know. in response, loewy had developed a reliable formula. if something was familiar, make it surprising. if something was surprising, make it familiar. that same principle applies to political campaigns. in 2008 sol sender, amanda gentry and andy keene were faced with the challenge of branding a candidate who had anything but name recognition. barack obama’s design team responded with a quintessentially professional identity program, introducing — for the first time — the language of corporate branding to political marketing. obama’s persona — unfamiliar, untested, and potentially alarming to much of the voting public — was given a polished logo and a perfectly executed, utterly consistent typographic system. in short, they made a surprising candidate seem familiar. we faced the opposite problem. our candidate was universally known. how could we make her image seem fresh and compelling? this is a great look at how a designer at the top of his game approaches a problem…and reckons with failure. even this little bit: it wasn’t clever or artful. i didn’t care about that. i wanted something that you didn’t need a software tutorial to create, something as simple as a peace sign or a smiley face. i wanted a logo that a five-year-old could make with construction paper and kindergarten scissors. leading up to the election, how many photos did you see of hillary logos hand-drawn by kids on signs and t-shirts? lots and lots…my kids even got into the act. anyway, a huge contrast to the process and impact of the trump campaign’s identity. more about... 2016 election branding design donald trump hillary clinton logos michael bierut politics logobook, a catalog of great logos posted by jason kottke feb 28, 2017 logobook is a growing catalog of “the finest logos, symbols & trademarks” in the world. the 5000+ logos are divided into groups like letters & numbers, shapes, animals, objects, and nature and are extensively categorized by industry, designer, and country of origin. great resource. they’re backed up with new submissions right now, but you can still send them your logos and they’ll get back to you when submissions are open again. (via @buzz) more about... branding design logos weird 80s font convergence posted by jason kottke apr 13, 2016 just learned/realized that the old logos for reebok, apple, and trapper keeper all use the same typeface, motter tektura. (via @pieratt) more about... apple design logos reebok trapper keeper typography 1969 bell system logo redesign pitch video by saul bass posted by jason kottke sep 04, 2015 from 1969, this is the video that saul bass made to pitch at&t on a new corporate identity. what a time capsule. here’s the logo, which remained in use until 1983, when bass designed the “death star” logo to replace it. more about... at&t design logos saul bass video google has a new logo posted by jason kottke sep 01, 2015 ….and it still looks like a middlebrow kids clothing brand logo. so why are we doing this now? once upon a time, google was one destination that you reached from one device: a desktop pc. these days, people interact with google products across many different platforms, apps and devices-sometimes all in a single day. you expect google to help you whenever and wherever you need it, whether it’s on your mobile phone, tv, watch, the dashboard in your car, and yes, even a desktop! today we’re introducing a new logo and identity family that reflects this reality and shows you when the google magic is working for you, even on the tiniest screens. as you’ll see, we’ve taken the google logo and branding, which were originally built for a single desktop browser page, and updated them for a world of seamless computing across an endless number of devices and different kinds of inputs (such as tap, type and talk). update: the design team shares how they came up with the new logo. update: when i said that google’s new logo “still looks like a middlebrow kids clothing brand logo”, this is pretty much what i meant. gymboree’s identity (1993-2000) vs. google’s new identity (sep 01, 2015) (via @buzz) more about... design google gymboree logos video big brands swap logo colors posted by jason kottke aug 27, 2015 paula rúpolo took some famous brands’ iconic logos (mcdonald’s, starbucks, ebay) and swapped the colors with logos of their competitors (subway, dunkin donuts, amazon). here’s fedex and ups: more about... design logos paula rupolo nasa’s logo: the worm vs. the meatball posted by jason kottke aug 20, 2015 nasa’s original logo looked something like this: it was referred to, colloquially, as the meatball. in the 1970s, the meatball was switched out for the worm, a more modernist take: this logo was done by richard danne and bruce blackburn, and danne wrote an essay about the experience. and here is one of the most interesting exchanges i’ve ever witnessed in a design presentation: fletcher: “i’m simply not comfortable with those letters, something is missing.” low: “well yes, the cross stroke is gone from the letter a.” fletcher: “yes, and that bothers me.” low: “why?” fletcher: (long pause) “i just don’t feel we are getting our money’s worth!” others, not just the designers were stunned by this last comment. then the discussion moved back to the strong red/rust color we were proposing. we had tried many other colors of course, including the more predictable blue range, but settled on red because it suggested action and animation. it seemed in spirit with the can do nature of the space agency. fletcher: and this color, red, it doesn’t make much sense to me.” low: “what would be better?” fletcher: “blue makes more sense… space is blue.” low: “no dr. fletcher, space is black!” nasa’s graphics standards menu utilizing the worm logo can be seen here. the space agency switched back to the original logo in 1992. michael bierut compared the two: the worm is a great-looking word mark and looked fantastic on the spacecraft. by any objective measure, the worm was and is absolutely appropriate, and the meatball was and is an amateurish mess. (thx, jarrett) more about... bruce blackburn design logos michael bierut nasa richard danne the mighty morphing hillary logo posted by jason kottke jun 11, 2015 soon after the logo for hillary clinton’s campaign was revealed, i wrote “i am not a big fan of the arrowed h”. well, the campaign’s clever use of the logo has won me over. quartz’s annalisa merelli explains. it is through all these iterations that clinton’s logo fully displays its iconic value: it is highly recognizable despite the changes, and the much-criticized right-facing red arrow is now appears as it was likely meant to: pointing the way forward. the different backgrounds aren’t just an innovative graphic solution-they are the visual embodiment of the values clinton is building her campaign around. it vehicles a leadership based on collectivity and inclusiveness rather than the elitist individualism clinton is often accused of. more about... 2016 election annalisa merelli design hillary clinton logos politics handdrawn logos posted by jason kottke may 08, 2015 seb lester can somehow freehand draw the logos for the ny times, honda, ferrari, coca-cola, and many more. watching the video, i didn’t even notice any tracing…it’s all freehand. keep up with lester’s drawings on his instagram account. more about... design logos seb lester video hillary clinton logo typeface posted by jason kottke apr 14, 2015 inspired by the logo for hillary clinton’s 2016 presidential run, designer rick wolff created an entire uppercase alphabet for a typeface he’s calling hillvetica. from his twitter stream, it appears that wolff is attempting to make an actual hillvetica font so stay tuned. fyi, pentagram partner michael bierut designed the logo. the simplicity is appealing, but overall i am not a big fan of the arrowed h. update: the washington post made a little text editor so you can write whatever you want in hillvetica. the clinton campaign has already put it to use: putting hillary bold to good use. http://t.co/nvtjlsoh5u pic.twitter.com/m3q3nswqyv — hillary clinton (@hillaryclinton) april 14, 2015 more about... 2016 election design hillary clinton logos politics rick wolff typography neon chinatown posted by jason kottke feb 18, 2015 a project called chinatown takes familiar logos like pepsi, starbucks, ups, and lego and translates them, imprecisely, into their chinese equivalents. it uses basic words for translation, such as “caramel macchiato” for “starbucks” in order to maintain the visual continuity. by arranging the words this way, ‘chinatown’ pushes viewers to ask themselves what it means to see, hear, and become fully aware. ‘chinatown’ also demonstrates our strangeness to 1.35 billion people in the world, when you can’t read chinese. (via @pieratt) more about... design language logos responsive logos and abstraction in design posted by jason kottke jan 12, 2015 responsive web design is a technique used by web builders where the design adapts to different screen sizes. designer joe harrison has built a page with responsive logos for several well-known brands, including coca-cola, nike, disney, and levi’s. if you resize the page, you can see the logos change. here’s how the disney logo looks as your browser window gets smaller (from l to r): as the browser gets smaller, the logos lose detail and become more abstract. by the time you get to the smallest screen width, you’re down to just the disney “d” or nike swoosh or heineken red star, aka the bare minimum you need to render the logo recognizable, if only on a subconscious or emotional level. which reminds me of scott mccloud’s discussion of iconic abstraction (and the big triangle) in understanding comics, which is still one of the best books on design and storytelling i’ve ever read. here’s a bit of the relevant passage: defining the cartoon would take up as much space as defining comics, but for now, i’m going to examine cartooning as a form of amplification through simplification. when we abstract an image through cartooning, we’re not so much eliminating details as we are focusing on specific details. by stripping down an image to its essential “meaning”, an artist can amplify that meaning in a way that realistic art can’t. the reason why those particular logos work responsively is because they each have abstract representations that work on that meaningful emotional level. you see that red levi’s tag or nike swoosh and you feel something.1 i think companies are having to design logos in this way more frequently. contemporary logos need to look good on freeway billboards, on letterhead, as ios icons, and, in the case of the facebook, twitter, or pinterest logos, affixed to tiny tweet/like/pin buttons. (via ministry of type) i’ve talked about this elsewhere, but in designing the “identity” for kottke.org (such as it is), having an abstract logo identifying element has been an important part of the process. i wanted to have an element (currently the blue gradient) that if you saw it and recognized it, you had a reaction to it on a emotional level. here’s what i wrote about an older kottke.org design: “the yellow-green thing at the top is a tag. like the red tag on levi’s jeans or even the red stripe on prada shoes. it’s small, out of the way, but when you see it on something, you know exactly what you’re holding in your hands.” it’s my favorite design trick and likely influenced by understanding comics more than i realize. ↩ more about... books design joe harrison logos scott mccloud understanding comics inside the brain of a designer posted by jason kottke dec 10, 2014 if you’ve ever wondered how a designer does their thing (or even if you haven’t), this look-over-the-shoulder view of aaron draplin designing a logo for a fictional company in about 10 minutes is great. a nice reminder that design is truly about making it up as you go along. i love draplin. internet treasure, that guy. and that lefty writing claw! go lefties! more about... aaron draplin design logos video airbnb’s unfortunate logo characters posted by jason kottke oct 27, 2014 when the new airbnb logo was introduced, the company caught a lot of flack from the internet because the logo resembled an odd combination of almost every sexual body part. i actually liked the logo right away and after a few months with it, the juvenile connotations have faded. but you know what makes airbnb’s logo really really really look like a cartoonish vagina butt? putting arms and legs and hats on the logo and animating it. airbnb is sponsoring the nyc marathon this year, and the logo characters were created for the event. maaaaybe they’d like to rethink this? more about... airbnb design logos who drew the sriracha rooster? posted by jason kottke oct 03, 2014 the rooster on the sriracha bottle has made its way to iphone cases, t-shirts, and water bottles. but no one (not even the founder of the company) knows the name of the street artist who created the now famous logo. more about... design food logos designing idiocracy posted by jason kottke oct 03, 2014 over at trivia happy, phil edwards interviewed ellen lampl, who designed the logos for mike judge’s underrated idiocracy. some logos came from the script, while some came from the designers’ brainstorming sessions. brawndo and carl’s jr. were written, while lampl made logos for companies like nastea and fedexx once the overall look was approved. for lampl, it was a great release, because “coming from the past constraints of advertising, it was cathartic to have the liberty to be bawdy and irreverent. making everything ridiculously over-emphasized with bright colors, outlines upon outlines, and exaggerated drop shadows was my personal jab at the world of branding and in-your-face typography.” more about... design ellen lampl idiocracy logos mike judge movies the hidden message in the old milwaukee brewers logo posted by jason kottke jul 07, 2014 somehow i lived in wi for the first 17 years of my life, was a brewers fan for many of those years, and never realized the old brewers logo contained the letters “m” and “b” hidden in the ball and glove. wow. if your mind is blowing right now too, there’s a facebook group we can join together: best day of my life: when i realized the brewers logo was a ball and glove and the letters m and b. (via kathryn yu) ps. if you’ve somehow missed the hidden arrow in the fedex logo, here you go. best kind of natural high there is. more about... baseball design logos sports evolution of the warner bros logo posted by jason kottke feb 25, 2014 fine work as usual from christian annyas: a look at the design of the warner bros logo from 1923 to the present. the classic “wb” shield of my bugs-and-daffy-saturated youth will always be a favorite, but i do like the saul bass logo of the 70s and early 80s: affleck’s argo and soderbergh’s magic mike both used the bass logo in place of the contemporary logo, which is the kind of little detail i love. more about... christian annyas design logos movies saul bass the art of the rap logo posted by jason kottke jan 31, 2014 the art of the rap logo is a collection of rap logos from nwa to snoop dogg to def jam. more about... design logos music football as football posted by jason kottke nov 14, 2013 football as football is a collection of american football team logos in the style of european football club badges. here are badges for the detroit lions (in the italian style) and new england patriots (in the spanish style). more about... design football logos soccer sports older posts kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives