this app works best with javascript enabled. first came love. then came logo. turn your passion into a brand - logomaker generates hundreds of options in seconds. search create your free logo a.i.-powered logomaker create your logo in the blink of an a.i. no design skills? who needs them anyway? just enter your brand name—and slogan, if you have one—and our a.i.-powered logomaker will instantaneously generate hundreds of eye-catching, high-resolution logo options tailored to your specific niche. your browser does not support the video tag. play_circle_filled flexible design logo your way. unlike a lot of logo-building tools, we’ve engineered one that doesn’t rely on templates. instead, logomaker finds unique design elements to fit your brand. virtually every element—from color to fonts to icons—can be customized till it’s just the way you want it. free downloads download your logo for free. letting you create a free logo, only to charge you for downloads? we’re not that logo builder, either. with logomaker, your design is free to download—in multiple high-res file types—and ready to use everywhere, including your website, marketing materials, t-shirts, and more. logo-making tips what makes a great logo? your logo is often a consumer’s first impression of your brand. here are a few tips to help your logo stand out (in a good way). keep it simple. what do logos like mcdonald’s, google, and ebay have in common? they’re not ridiculously flashy. but they are ridiculously memorable. pay attention to color. every color evokes an emotion. use bright and bold colors to generate excitement. and don’t rule out black and white, along with other neutral hues. make sure it's readable. you might have a great-looking logo. but what happens when you print it on, say, a business card? experiment with text size, font, and color. dare to be different. a lot of logos play it safe. but sometimes, standing out means stepping out of your comfort zone and trying something less expected. resource center resources to help you do more business. ready to give this logo thing a go? get hundreds of customizable options in seconds.create your free logo email marketing email marketing overview email templates marketing automation facebook & instagram ads google ads ecommerce integrations email campaign ideas email marketing pricing free trial information websites websites overview website builder online store logomaker websites pricing domains free website builder services & help marketing advisors professional services online marketing blog product help center knowledge base email campaign ideas success stories the download about constant contact partners agencies technology partners affiliates franchises associations about us company careers news investors contact us it pays to have friends. literally. refer a friend check out our mobile apps join mailing list enter email address× by entering your information, you permit us to reach out to you with future communications. got it! be on the lookout for your first email from us. terms & conditions privacy california privacy rights security anti-spam do not sell my info © constant contact, inc. 1996 – 2020