home trends hair styles search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. onfocuz home trends hair styles home trends look fashionable when working out with these five brands trends look fashionable when working out with these five brands by jobin - march 3, 2018 594 0 share facebook twitter fashionable work out brands when you keep in mind how you are dressed and how you look throughout the day, why should your time spent working out be any different? people work out in order to stay healthy and improve their self-confidence. knowing that you look great even when you are working out can go a long way in helping you exercise even harder, therefore getting even better results. besides, you do not want to look like someone dragged you to the gym and is making you do your cardio under gunpoint. dress up in gym clothes that make you look good and you will want to exercise a lot more regularly. here are the top 5 brands that design fitness wear which is not only comfortable but trendy as well 1.lululemon undoubtedly one of the most popular fitness wear brand in the market right now, lululemon is a hot favorite among women of all ages and their range of fitness wear are comfortable and fashionable. if you wanted to look cute while you worked out, then you cannot go wrong with lululemon. their range of clothes is focused on cardio and yoga, and their dresses come with an assurance that they will easily last you up to 5 years. they are the complete solution for anyone who loves intense workouts. 2. athleta athleta is for fitness lovers and gym junkies who just cannot get enough working out. the company offers gym wear that is ideal for a wide range of exercises and also offer special options for those who enjoy activities like skiing, swimming, and hiking. you also get to buy matching accessories such as hair bands and water bottles that complete your gym attire perfectly. 3.underarmour it’s not just women who like to look their best at all time. underarmour is a brand that creates fitness wear that is designed to make men look good when working out. clothes that are trendy yet durable, underarmour is the brand to pick. their products lie on the expensive side, but the years of use that you can get out of them, combined with the fact that they make you look strong and fierce are reason enough to consider buying them. 4. alala famous athlete denise lee started her range of fitness wear for busy women under the brand name alala, and her products are quickly becoming a rage amongst new yorkers. chic and comfortable, alala offers gym wear and exercise clothes that fit well and make working out a pleasant experience. material like neoprene and mesh inlay make the clothes perfect for even the most intense workout. 5. without walls urban outfitters is a reputed name in the apparel industry, and without walls is their attempt at offering gym wear to the young buyers. the apparels are designed to worn outdoors as well as indoors and keep fashion and sensibility in mind. the name comes from the company’s idea to get outside the confines of the wall and indulge in a more active lifestyle. products include leggings, windbreakers, crop tops, and more. share facebook twitter tweet next article2019 fall trends- top hairstyles for women that are a rage of the season jobin http://onfocuz.com leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here must read all all hair styles trends top hair trends for men this 2019 jobin - february 16, 2019 2 jazz up your hairstyle by latest trends with summer just around the corner, the man of today can’t help wondering how to make it work... look fashionable when working out with these five brands march 3, 2018 2019 fall trends- top hairstyles for women that are a rage... february 16, 2019 popular category hair styles2 trends1 a one-stop option for all your fashion solutions and lifestyle choices, we bring to you choicest trends from across the globe. categories hair styles trends advertise with us premium advertising disclaimer buy now © onfocuz.com 2019