about books maybe you should talk to someone marry him stick figure dear therapist services individual therapy couples therapy reproductive counseling consulting/coaching speaking events press articles contact menu about books maybe you should talk to someone marry him stick figure dear therapist services individual therapy couples therapy reproductive counseling consulting/coaching speaking events press articles contact dear therapist in my weekly “dear therapist” column for the atlantic, i tackle readers’ dilemmas, big and small, by sharing how a therapist might think about the kinds of issues brought in by patients. before this, i answered reader questions in a weekly advice column for new york magazine’s the cut. i love hearing from readers all over the world whose letters remind me how essentially similar we all are. a few of my readers’ favorite columns are the ones about attractiveness and self-worth, spouses who threaten divorce when they argue, and unconscious processes in choosing a partner. view the column submit a question latest columns dear therapist | the atlantic dear therapist: my best friend’s wife cheated on him i don’t want to be cruel to her, but i cannot be her friend. dear therapist: if my sister won’t leave her awful boyfriend, i’m done with her my sister is beautiful, talented, and successful, and i don’t understand why she’s wasting her time with this guy. dear therapist: my husband accidentally caused the death of our family’s dog my son blames his father and won’t speak to him, but my husband is making matters worse by not apologizing. dear therapist: i’m considering leaving my wife for my co-worker should i work on my marriage or leave to make myself happy? dear therapist: my mom ruined my finances and won’t apologize over the years, she opened several credit cards in my name and now owes more than $10,000. whenever i ask her to pay it back, she gets defensive and blames me. dear therapist: my boyfriend has an engagement ring meant for someone else i’m worried that he hasn’t completely moved on and that this will hurt our future together. dear therapist: my son makes my new husband feel alienated in our family my husband feels disrespected and unloved, and i don’t know how to bring harmony back to our family. dear therapist: my roommate is cheating on her boyfriend with me she wants to have a casual relationship with me while staying with him and i’m afraid to leave her. dear therapist: i can’t stand my sister-in-law everything about her rubs me the wrong way. dear therapist: i survived cancer, but now i’m afraid my husband resents me he regrets retiring early to take care of me when i was diagnosed. dear therapist: i cut my volatile brother out of my life. but my parents haven’t. i haven’t spoken to him in months and i’m angry that my parents continue to maintain a relationship with him. dear therapist: my mother wants me to cut my fiancé out of my daughter’s life i’m happy with the way my fiancé and i are raising my daughter, but my mother isn’t. dear therapist: my son is angry about the way he was treated last christmas he returned home a year ago feeling sad and anxious. we tried to be supportive, but he felt slighted and he’s not over it. dear therapist: my girlfriend and i are at a crossroads in our relationship she wants to start a family now, but i don’t want to make a decision based on her biological timeline. dear therapist: i will probably take the secret of my sexuality to the grave i’ve gone through life pretending, and my heart aches. dear therapist: my dad expects me to spend thanksgiving with his new family my parents recently divorced, and i’m not ready to spend the holiday with new people. dear therapist: my daughter moved back home and treats me like a roommate she’s been bringing a steady stream of men back to my house, and her behavior is testing my patience. dear therapist: i’m afraid my boyfriend’s sexuality will end our relationship he says he’s bisexual, but i’m worried he’s actually gay. dear therapist: i’m tired of explaining why i don’t want to get pregnant what i do, or don’t do, with my uterus is nobody’s business. dear therapist: my girlfriend had an affair with my co-worker i’ve forgiven her, but i can’t forgive him. subscribe to my newsletter your first name your last name your email address sign up facebook twitter instagram © lori gottlieb, 2020. all rights reserved. licensed marriage and family therapist, mfc #54049 | terms as an amazon associate i earn from qualifying purchases. site by sarah mattern. your browser is out-of-date! update your browser to view this website correctly.update my browser now ×