home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog the soup diet plus 10 healthy soup recipes to try! june 9, 2015 by erin weiss 2 comments as i was on the treadmill today, i was watching an episode of the doctors. i'm always a bit hesitant of shows that promote a lot of different products and diets, but today something caught my eye and i wanted to research it a bit more and do a post about it. today's topic was all about the soup diet. what is a soup diet? it's as simple as it sounds. it's a diet where you … [read more...] carb cycling april 23, 2013 by erin weiss 5 comments prior to the past couple weeks, i had never done any type of carb cycling before. since i'm so close to my next fitness shoot, my coach had me carb cycle a little bit to prep for the big day. what is "carb cycling"? carb cycling is a term where you manipulate your carbohydrate intake. you will change the amount of carbs you have each day from high ranges to lower … [read more...] dairy free meal replacement april 8, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i'm soooo excited about this!!!! isagenix just announced that they are now offering a dairy free, soy free, all natural meal replacement shake!!!! i have had so many clients ask me about a product like this and it's now here!!! so to sum it all up from the image above.... natural berry harvest the dairy-free shake alternative isalean® shake natural berry harvest … [read more...] 7 day clean eating meal plan february 14, 2013 by erin weiss 9 comments 7 day clean eating meal plan download i've been working on this for quite a while now, and i've finally finished it! i get asked all the time what my meal plan looks like so i figured i'd make a document with 7 days worth of meals so you can diet just like me! with this plan, you will be eating 6 meals a day. make sure to eat every 2-3 hours to keep your metabolism on … [read more...] my isagenix story february 1, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i originally heard about isagenix in march of 2012. i heard about the hype from a lot of my bikini competitor friends and being the type of person that i am, i immediately thought...."there's no way this isagenix stuff is really that much better than other stuff i can find at gnc". i was training for my first bikini competition at the time i heard about it. i watched all my … [read more...] fitness america midwest championships picture october 24, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment i finally got my first professional picture back from the photographer who shot my competition! i was so excited about it that i had to share it with you guys! fitness america midwest championships 2012 - bikini tall class sportswear/theme-wear costume: chicago bulls luvabull photographer: don bersano photography location: palatine, il (harper college) the cd is … [read more...] 500 workout may 25, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment if you follow me on facebook, you know that i created a workout yesterday called "500" that i was dedicating to my facebook fans as a thank you for getting me to 500 "likes" recently. i wanted the workout to consist of 500 reps and i wanted it to be something that everyone can do anywhere. i headed to my backyard and kicked this workout's butt...for you, my facebook … [read more...] i’m getting better at this clean eating thing march 20, 2012 by erin weiss 5 comments so i have found that being prepared is the key to eating clean. on sunday i spent a few hours prepping my food for the next few days. it has helped me out tremendously! i was able to divide my foods up into their serving sizes to make things much easier on me. when i'm hungry, or headed to work, i just grab enough fruits, veggies, protein and starches. i still have to figure … [read more...] go butler! april 2, 2010 by erin weiss 7 comments happy friday!!! butler weekend is finally here. indy is getting crazy as the ncaa tournament and big game is getting closer. since we are not going to the game anymore, we are renting out a private room at one of the popular bars with all you can drink and eat for 3 hours. should be a great time. it will be unbelievable if butler can pull through this and make it to the … [read more...] hungry girl april 1, 2010 by erin weiss 8 comments eyyylloooo! happy thursday. we're almost to the weekend, kids! hang in there. wednesday was filled with sunshine, a run, books, food and house flippin'. i started the day with some oatmeal. i just can't get myself to like this stuff. i want to like it, but just don't. i think i need to find some good mix-ins that are low cal for me to like it. i just had plain oats … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in