skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth lottie & walter (hardcover) by anna walker clarion books, 9781328470386, 40pp. publication date: may 7, 2019 list price: 17.99* * individual store prices may vary. description an original, compelling, and visually stunning treatment of a common childhood predicament: overcoming a fear of the water. lottie goes to swim lessons every saturday, but she never gets in the water. that’s because she is convinced there is a shark in the pool, a shark that wants to eat her and only her. but then walter appears. walter likes singing and reading books and bubble baths, and his favorite food is fish sticks, just like lottie. when saturday rolls around again, lottie is no more ready to jump in the pool than she was before. or is she? sometimes it just takes a special friend to find the courage that was inside you all along. about the author author and illustrator anna walker has won numerous children’s book design and writing awards in her native australia. the artwork and stories she’s created in her melbourne studio have reached young readers worldwide. www.annawalker.com.au, twitter: @basementbird, instagram: @_annawalker_ praise for lottie & walter… "walker’s (“florette”) watery, dreamy art casts a spell yet offers down-to-earth reassurance."—the new york times book review "quiet prose...and soft, thoughtful watercolors give this story of facing one’s fears an intimate, confiding feel, with...just the right amount of gentle amusement."—publishers weekly "walker's soft and appropriately watery illustrations complement and extend her whimsical text, lending a dreamlike feel to the story.... a quiet book about making a giant leap." —kirkus "[a] gentle story addressing a common childhood fear.... soothing gouache-and-pencil illustrations feature lots of white space, muted colors, and an eye for fine details." —booklist "[t]his tale of courage found through strength from a friend, however imaginary, validates a child’s feelings and may encourage discussion of personal fears."—school library journal "the illustrations capture lottie’s emotions as she transitions from fearful to fearless." —school library connection buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association