call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact louis dyson i have worked in the financial services industry for almost twenty years, and i am qualified to diploma level. i am married with three children and five grandchildren. my hobbies include spending time with the family, holidaying in spain and fast cars. whether your needs are simple or complex, from a simple investment to a complicated pension or inheritance planning, i can help you plan for the future, creating a strategy that can be as flexible as you need it to be, as you never know what is round the corner or how your needs will change. all good plans need to be reviewed on at least an annual basis if not more often, which is why it is important that you choose the right adviser in the first place. all my clients look forward to my client reviews and see them as an enjoyable experience rather than a chore. the key to successful financial planning, is to choose an adviser, that you feel at ease and you are comfortable with. working with me i provide advice and help following a financial review which can take place at a convenient time and place for you. usually a review will start with a very broad discussion of your concerns and aspirations, before moving on to a more thorough review. following your initial review, i will take time to consider your situation, needs and priorities before reporting my recommendations. we will discuss this face to face in a follow up meeting in which i’ll fully explain my recommendations and agree affordable priorities to assist you in achieving your objectives. please contact me to book a review. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.