editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 44 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 45 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 48 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime louisiana docs are buying hospital gowns on ebay due to supply shortages medical personnel talk at a drive-thru covid-19 testing station at west jefferson medical center on march 17, 2020 in new orleans, louisiana. (photo by chris graythen/getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 26, 2020 11:57 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. former louisiana secretary of health dr. rebekah gee reported on thursday that doctors in the state have been making up for medical supply shortages through desperate measures as they combat the covid-19 pandemic. “we’re a couple of days away from being out of masks. we’re buying gowns on ebay in some cases,” gee told cnn “new day” host john berman. the doctor warned that “we have not seen the peak of this crisis yet” in the bayou state, which currently has nearly 1,800 cases of the coronavirus. “did you say that there are doctors and health officials buying gowns on ebay?” berman asked. “that’s correct,” gee replied, adding that doctors have also been forced to create masks using office supplies. “making masks from office depot, plastic covers that you’d put on documents that you’re trying to make look formal and putting string and punching holes in them,” she said. “this is the kind of thing that’s happening,” the doctor continued. louisiana gov. john bel edwards (d) told reporters this week that his state has the third highest number of cases per capita after washington and new york, and has the highest case growth rate in the world. medical experts suspect the sudden spike stems from new orleans’ famed mardi gras celebration near the end of february, which millions of people had attended. president donald trump has yet to invoke the defense production act, which health care providers say is urgently needed to help states mitigate the medical supply shortages, particularly ventilators. trump refused to do so after major corporations lobbied against the move, according to the new york times. watch gee below: former louisiana health secretary says doctors are buying hospital gowns on ebay due to medical supply shortage. pic.twitter.com/0j3cbcpzgr — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire) march 26, 2020 cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19louisianatv clip more in news 44 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 45 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 48 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy