style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop design love during coronavirus by grace farris by the lovely grace farris. p.s. a sixty-second way to feel good and ways to say i love you. tags: comics, grace farris march 27, 2020 11:21am comments 27 you may also like… design how to sleep when your baby sleeps may 31, 2019 67 design signs the book you’re reading is great september 13, 2019 48 design reading positions january 17, 2020 36 comments 27 post a comment una says... i’m a nurse-midwife in pa and the last one punched me in the gut. it’s a dark time for us all, but i actually find that being on l&d for my shifts is the brightest time for me. with all of the fear and uncertainty and pain in this upside down time, on our floor, life marches on and humanity’s resilience is on full, joyful display. to all mamas and mamas to be – sending you lots of love. march 27, 2020 3:05pm / reply marissa says... yes, it’s been a time for us midwives to really appreciate the joy in what we do. i had my first experience with a mom who tested positive giving birth, and it was incredibly hard for everyone involved. i was holding back tears after catching her baby in a space suit blowing air in my face, then having to immediately hand over her perfectly healthy baby to be taken away to a separate room. it’s just not really possible to provide much comfort to a new mom who’s all alone, not even allowed to have her partner with her, shocked and terrified by what she just experienced. there’s going to be generational trauma. march 27, 2020 4:36pm / eleanor says... can we get an extra special shout out to dr. farris, who is a doctor in nyc helping covid patients, while also making these kickass comics for us all to appreciate?? i am in awe. march 27, 2020 2:03pm / reply audrey says... agreed! and she’s so positive on instagram. a great follow. march 27, 2020 2:43pm / joanna goddard says... yes!!!! she’s amazing. march 27, 2020 2:51pm / marisa says... oh, wow!! i just realized what you meant by dr. farris being the cartoonist!! yes, she’s absolutely amazing!!! impressively talented and an impressive human being! maybe cupofjo could do some kind of interview with her after all of this, and we can all write messages to her? march 27, 2020 3:16pm / andrea says... 31 weeks pregnant and can’t stop thinking about how my family and friends won’t get to hold my sweet new baby :( facetime just isn’t the same for this one! march 27, 2020 1:57pm / reply celeste says... a lot can happen in 9 weeks, you never know! certainly not by easter, though. best wishes for a healthy end of pregnancy! march 27, 2020 3:00pm / diana says... 36 weeks and worrying right along with you! hoping for both our sakes that our children will be the bright spot in this unsettling time. march 27, 2020 3:50pm / cew says... the shift from “social media is making us depressed” to “social media is what will keep us from depression” is giving me whiplash. march 27, 2020 1:41pm / reply kristen says... i’m 23 weeks pregnant right now and have both a cousin and a best friend due any day now. this one got me in the feels. thanks for the good cry – i needed that release. much love to all of you right now. march 27, 2020 1:14pm / reply kaitlyn s says... stay strong kristen! i’m also pregnant (19 weeks) and my sil just had her baby 2 weeks ago and my friend is due this weekend! we can make it through and our babies will be strong just like us :) march 27, 2020 2:02pm / cristy says... my sister is also 23ish weeks pregnant! my heart hurts that i can’t be with her. wishing you all the best! march 27, 2020 2:05pm / olivia says... upside of isolation is that no one sees me bawling in response to this. march 27, 2020 1:10pm / reply katie says... in the last week, i’ve experienced two of these. we celebrated my friend’s 40th, virtually last saturday. tuesday, my sister had a baby. i’ve been holding it together since the outset, but today, i’m losing it. i’m mad that people (and by people, i mean the govt. and citizens alike) didn’t take the virus seriously and there is no end in site. i’m mad that so many people are out of jobs. i’m sad that so many milestones and events are put on hold. i’m even sadder for all the people who have the virus and those taking caring for them. march 27, 2020 1:08pm / reply danielle says... i also opened this post and started bawling. i’m an emergency nurse in canada and went into see my first really sick covid patient last night looking just like the picture above i reached to open the patients door and a paramedic looked at me and said “you got this.” march 27, 2020 12:47pm / reply lauren lyons says... my dear father is turning 70 on wednesday, april 1st and he was recently placed in a nursing facility temporarily to have twice daily physical therapy. we had big plans for his 70th, but now won’t be able to see him since we’re all on lockdown. my husband and i live in philadelphia and my dad is in southern delaware. he’s mentioned his birthday a few times and it is literally breaking my heart. (he doesn’t fully comprehend what’s going on.) what hurts even more is absolutely no one can visit him. no one. on a funny note, he’s been entertaining himself by watching “keeping up with the kardashians.” (so not his norm.) so, thank you for posting this. as much as i don’t want anyone else to feel the sadness i’m feeling, it does help to know we’re all going through this together. wishing everyone great health and happiness. let’s all plow through this uncertainty and come out shining. xo march 27, 2020 12:45pm / reply g says... my parents are in a similar situation and nursing facilities have been at the top of my mind recently. sending love to you and your father, and wishing him a very happy 70th birthday <3 march 27, 2020 1:24pm / andrea says... i wonder if a local reader could take a sign for his window from you all?!? march 27, 2020 2:20pm / eliza says... happy birthday to your dad! let him know people in different parts of the world will be thinking of him on his birthday thanks to this little post! (i’m on vancouver island, bc). i hope enough people click through and see andrea’s suggestion and someone might be able to wave to him through a window <3 march 27, 2020 3:15pm / molly says... andrea, what a lovely suggestion. lauren, say yes! march 27, 2020 3:59pm / emma says... oh, that last illustration got me… i am a doula in san francisco, and it’s been me on the other end of that phone for some of my clients in the last weeks. it’s heartbreaking and tough, but it has also been the most amazing display of determination, self belief and empowerment from these amazing women. they just rolled up their sleeves and did it. even though they were scared, even though these times are not how they planned their pregnancies and births to be. i’m so proud of them. march 27, 2020 12:22pm / reply kl says... my husband and i just welcomed our 3rd child monday morning and feel like no delivery has ever gone according to plan. congrats to your clients who find such success and sorry to be the skeptic, but i have realized that childbearing has been a complete process of recognizing my own limitations, the need to trust experts, and letting go of certain expectations. my recovery with this child has been so much easier, but the uncontrollable part this time was the environment and community circumstances. still i feel so grateful. parenting is just not perfect and for me, pregnancy/delivery has been an initiation into that reality (especially as an engineer). march 27, 2020 3:01pm / jessica says... excuse me while i bawl my eyes out, again! it’s particularly poignant because i believe that dr. farris (a hospitalist in new york city) is self-isolating to protect her family, so she is facetime-ing her own young kids every day instead of seeing them – which seems like torture to me. and yet here she is giving us all a reason to feel tender good things. she really is an entire gem of a human. march 27, 2020 12:16pm / reply jordan gamart says... agreed! i noticed that too and it takes a special human to recognize this and to comment on it. so thank you~ march 27, 2020 12:41pm / allie says... all the feelings. thank you! march 27, 2020 11:47am / reply jordana @whitecabana says... hearts for this. march 27, 2020 11:42am / reply cancel reply comment name email website notify me of follow-up comments by email. about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me design most popular my sister’s home makeover 8 awesome podcasts john derian lives in a sea captain’s house behind the scenes: making a magazine cover what’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever read? the #1 item you need for house guests our brooklyn family apartment 9 great instagram accounts 14 genius tips for living in a small space this cozy minnesota home will make you want a candelabra load more design favorite books design movies & tv design weekend link lists disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style a week of outfits: hana asbrink food how cool are these cloud eggs? design four fun things travel how to find that great vacation restaurant, and other burning questions relationships ‘my favorite moment of my wedding’ motherhood what are your kids’ personalities? about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out