international edition international edition uk edition us edition australian editionthe guardian - back to home search jobsdating sign in search news opinion sport culture lifestyleshowmore fashion food recipes love & sex health & fitness home & garden women men family travel money brief lettersfood love it or hate it, or simply combine it letters marmalade | living to 100 | ‘royal’ branding | yellowbellies | new £20 note the perfect pairing for marmalade? photograph: reuters published on mon 24 feb 2020 18.18 gmt our canadian friends needn’t waste their time toasting bread (letters, 22 february). when i was a young girl our household income was very limited, so i ate whatever my mother put in front of me. a friend invited me to tea, and i was offered marmalade or marmite to spread on my bread. shocked by being offered a choice, i said both – much to the amusement of my hosts. i have been enjoying the treat of marmalade and marmite sandwiches for nearly 60 years. lis mills swindon • nice to be greeted on my 84th birthday by your feature telling me the “natural ceiling to human life is somewhere around 115” (the briefing, journal, 24 february). what it doesn’t say is whether my very affectionate children will be quite so well disposed to having me still around when they’re the age i am now. robin milner-gulland washington, west sussex • in the fuss over the sussexes’ use of royal (harry and meghan to drop word ‘royal’ from their brand, 22 february), can someone explain why the privatised “royal” mail isn’t a bigger problem? andrew mclauchlin stratford-upon-avon, warwickshire • decades after the farm workers’ strikes, norfolkmen used “yeller-bellies” (letters, 21 february) to abuse “furreners” imported from lincolnshire to break the strike. john whysall york • you say the £20 is “britain’s most popular” banknote (first polymer £20 note to be launched today, 20 february). offer people a choice, a £50 or £20 note. my guess would be the £50 would easily win on popularity. peter reid plymouth • join the debate – email guardian.letters@theguardian.com • read more guardian letters – click here to visit gu.com/letters • do you have a photo you’d like to share with guardian readers? click here to upload it and we’ll publish the best submissions in the letters spread of our print edition topics food brief letters ageing prince harry meghan, duchess of sussex monarchy the queen norfolk letters reuse this content fashion food recipes love & sex health & fitness home & garden women men family travel money news opinion sport culture lifestyle contact us complaints & corrections securedrop work for us privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions help all topics all writers digital newspaper archive facebook twitter advertise with us search uk jobs dating discount codes back to top © 2020 guardian news & media limited or its affiliated companies. all rights reserved. (beta)