menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “love & relationships” how i overcame my relationship anxiety and doubts by ella “to love is to risk not being loved in return. to hope is to risk pain. to try is to risk failure. but risk must be taken because the greatest hazard in my life is to risk nothing.” ~leo … why you should love your imperfect self by katia aguirre-vega “love yourself first and everything else falls into line.” ~lucille ball if you were to ask me ten years ago what self-love meant, i would’ve probably said something general like “being happy.” but self-love goes way deeper than that; it … if you’re hoping they’ll change, they’re not right for you by vivienne singer “love is the ability and willingness to allow those that you care for to be what they choose for themselves without any insistence that they satisfy you.” ~wayne dyer when i married my ex, he had the potential to be … 10 things you need to know to have a strong, happy relationship by kj hutchings “the most painful thing is losing yourself in the process of loving someone too much, and forgetting that you are special too.” ~ernest hemingway when i was in my early twenties, i was in a relationship with a man … how to stop agreeing to things that aren’t good for you by hailey magee “agreeing to things just to keep the peace is actually a trauma response. when you do this you’re disrespecting your boundaries.” ~dj love light two years ago, i moved from new england to the pacific northwest. it was time for … when you focus on yourself, don’t forget everyone else by sonya matejko “time and good friends are two things that get more valuable the older you get.” ~unknown in recent years, we’ve collectively been talking a lot about creating boundaries and letting go of things that no longer serve us. many of … how to keep the love flowing in your relationship by daniel a. miller “the beginning of love is to let those we love be perfectly themselves, and not to twist them to fit our own image. otherwise we love only the reflection of ourselves we find in them.”~thomas merton, no man is an … dealing with online hate: what to do when people are mean by tanwi dixit “the less you respond to negative people, the more peaceful your life will become.” ~unknown i work for a website that creates videos on lifestyle, fashion, food, travel, fitness, and more. our channel has a massive following from all walks … 7 signs your parents’ love was (and is) conditional by kimberly diaz-rosso “the beauty of the truth; whether it is good or bad, it is liberating.” ~paulo coelho it’s around the time of your mother or father’s birthday. you browse through the card aisles of your local store getting more and more … are you being roached in your “relationship”? by renée suzanne “don’t make assumptions. find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness and drama. with just this one agreement, you can completely transform your … radical compassion: how to heal our hostile world by thad cummings “an enemy is a person whose story you do not know.” ~irene butter we all know the status of our currently hostile nation—it feels as though you can’t make it through a single speech or read an article or engage … why strong chemistry doesn’t always lead to a strong relationship by carrie l. burns “the meeting of two personalities is like the contact of two chemical substances: if there is any reaction, both are transformed.” ~c.g. jung everyone says it. they say chemistry is a must. i know i say it. but why do … why i was a people-pleaser and how i stopped by adrienne courtney “when you say “yes” to others, make sure you aren’t saying “no” to yourself.” ~paulo coehlo for as long as i can remember i have been a people pleaser. i have prided myself on being well-liked, on saying yes and … how i healed from gaslighting and found self-love after the abuse by hayley brooks “i smile because i have survived everything the world has thrown at me. i smile because when i was knocked down, i got back up.” ~unknown had you asked me only two years ago i wouldn’t have even been able … if you want a healthy relationship, value yourself by marlena tillhon-haslam “it’s all about falling in love with yourself and sharing that love with someone who appreciates you, rather than looking for love to compensate for a self-love deficit.” ~eartha kitt i always found the concept of self-love embarrassing and horrifying. … you are not “too much” to be loved by hailey magee “if you always feel like you’re too much or too little, maybe you’re adding yourself to the wrong recipe.” ⁠~sophia joan short there is an art to shrinking yourself. as a young girl, i was painfully earnest. i hadn’t … growing up with a narcissist: how i’m healing from the abuse by victoria grande “you could have grown cold, but you grew courageous instead. you could have given up, but you kept on going. you could have seen obstacles, but you called them adventures. you could have called them weeds, but instead you called … why i was desperate to be with an unavailable man by louise piper “if you don’t love yourself, you’ll always be chasing after people who don’t love you either.” ~mandy hale in january, a couple of years ago, i had been declared unfit for work, suffering from anxiety and mental exhaustion. for too … how i found the gift in my pain and let go of resentment by jamie hannigan “change is inevitable, growth is intentional.” ~glenda cloud how much time slips by when you’re living in the pain of resentment? do you ever question if your bitterness has held you back from living your true destiny? is blaming everyone … how yoga gave me the courage to stop people-pleasing by caitlin kelly “yoga is the journey of the self, through the self, to the self.” ~the bhagavad gita growing up, i couldn’t have been further from my ‘self.’ early childhood experiences taught me to focus all of my energy externally. to put … page 1 of 5912345...102030...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top