about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ my cookbook now available! about the book the path to a healthy body and happy belly is paved with real food―fresh, wholesome, sustainable food―and it doesn’t need to be so difficult. no one knows this more than kathryne taylor of america’s most popular vegetarian food blog, cookie and kate. with love real food, she offers over 100 approachable and outrageously delicious meatless recipes complete with substitutions to make meals special diet-friendly (gluten-free, dairy-free, and egg-free) whenever possible. her book is designed to show everyone―vegetarians, vegans, and meat-eaters alike―how to eat well and feel well. what’s inside the basics 100+ recipes, all of which are meatless 90% brand new recipes, plus a few blog favorites (better than ever!) 36 of the recipes offer tested “change it up” tips for how to change the recipe with the seasons, etc. vibrant photos of every recipe hardcover isbn-10: 1623367417 published by rodale books official release date may 16, 2017 chapters introduction good morning salads soups happy hour let’s feast sweet treats extras special features cooking tips and flavor boosters my favorite ingredients foods for dogs five steps to creating an epic salad cooking cheat sheet: tape it inside your kitchen cabinets menus and helpful recipe lists and more! special diet details each recipe offers special diet labels for the following categories, as applicable. the recipes offer simple dietary substitutions/modifications whenever possible (all thoroughly tested!). 100+ vegetarian recipes 97 dairy-free/dairy-free option recipes 95 egg-free/egg-free option recipes 97 gluten-free/gluten-free option recipes 89 nut-free/nut-free option recipes 100 soy-free/soy-free option recipes 96 vegan/vegan option recipes praise “kathryne taylor’s first book stays true to the motto of her massively popular blog, cookie and kate: “celebrating whole foods”. this wonderful collection of delicious, nutritious and satisfying vegetarian recipes is divided into breakfasts, salads, soups, cocktails, feasts and sweet treats. written in a friendly and reassuring style, the recipes are simple enough for the home cook to easily follow.” ― the independent, 14 best vegetarian cookbooks “kathryne taylor from popular blog cookie & kate is one of the most personable people on the internet, and her new cookbook, love real food, is just as accessible and bright as her blog, filled with plant-based recipes that are low enough on the complicated-scale to actually be made.” ― mind body green, game-changing salsa “as a longtime reader of cookie and kate, i’ve anticipated this book for years. and not surprisingly, it 100% delivers. the recipes and photos perfectly echo kate’s taste and aesthetic, while providing new and exciting dishes for the beginner and advanced cook alike. i can’t wait to get in the kitchen and try everything.” ― dana shultz, author of minimalist baker’s everyday cooking “kathryne’s debut cookbook is packed with all the wholesomeness, approachability, and charm that fans of her blog, cookie and kate, have come to love. featuring flavorful recipes made from simple, whole foods, a ton of helpful tips, and many heartwarming cameos from taylor’s canine sidekick, cookie, love real food is sure to become an everyday staple in kitchens everywhere―mine included!” ― angela liddon, author of oh she glows every day “i’ve always loved kathryne’s approach to cooking because of her focus on flavors and easy-to-master meals. her cookbook is no different: it’s filled with beautiful, approachable vegetarian recipes that the entire family will enjoy. this book will easily become a staple for everyday cooking!” ― erin alderson, creator of naturally ella “i just love kathryne’s approach to real food! simply put, this is the food that i want to eat every day. it’s a celebration of real, beautiful, and wholesome food. the book has a range of healthified favorites, like easy carrot cake and roasted eggplant lasagna, as well as recipes with super creative flavor combinations, like chickpea tikka masala and fresh greek nachos (yum!). no one is going hungry at this party―i think we can all raise our glasses of strawberry rose sangria and (avocado) toast to glorious satisfying food.” ― jeanine donofrio, author of the love and lemons cookbook where to buy hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}