skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: loving the entrepreneur 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on jul 30, 2019 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings my husband turned 40 at the beginning of july. i wanted a bacchanalian celebration, cake and lights and streamers and swarms of people, forgetting entirely that this milestone wasn’t about me. the realization would hit me eventually, before too much planning had occurred: he didn’t want a big to-do. nor did he want, he insisted,… keep reading halloween 2018: indiana jones and punching nazis. posted on nov 2, 2018 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, random musings i don’t know when the idea for this year’s halloween costume originated. rand and i have been talking about it for years. it’s the sort of thing that stays simmering on the back burner for so long that you almost have to wonder if it’ll ever come to fruition, or if the idea will simply… keep reading lost and founder. posted on jul 19, 2018 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, random musings, writing my beloved wrote a book. how it came to be was radically different from my own path. when i wrote a book, it became a job, it became the thing i was doing because on a daily basis, there’s not that much else that is asked of me. but there are always things asked of… keep reading scenes from a bookstore posted on jun 22, 2018 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, random musings, writing “why do they have so many copies of my book? is that a bad sign? does that mean no one’s buying it?” “no. your book has been out for a year, and they have a lot of copies. that’s a good sign. that means they keep it in stock.” “are you sure? because doesn’t it… keep reading from the mediterranean to cheddar bay. posted on may 3, 2018 posted in: food, loving the entrepreneur, random musings, restaurants my husband and i are driving through southern oregon, like we have every summer since we were married. i see a red lobster. i scream. i tell him to pull over immediately. he ignores me. after more than a decade together he can distinguish between my “something is urgently wrong” scream and my “i need… keep reading my husband is more stylish than me. and that’s okay. posted on jul 25, 2016 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, personal essay, random musings i have a confession. my husband, rand, is more fashionable than me. this is contrary to everything that movies and television have taught me, where the female sex is supposed to be stylish, and men can run around looking like they’re in the middle of washing their car. behold. but that’s not the case with… keep reading the mathematics of churros, valencia, spain. posted on jun 30, 2016 posted in: food, loving the entrepreneur, random musings the proprietor stands behind the counter, eyeing us warily. “how many do you want?” he asks. lisa and i look at each other. “maybe twenty?” she offers tentatively. keep reading predatory hunt: powerscourt estate, wicklow, ireland posted on jun 2, 2016 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, photos, random musings “dear god,” i told him when i saw the photo. “i look positively predatory.” rand laughed. “you do,” he agreed. “you look like you are hunting me.” keep reading in austin, we find turtles and forget to adult. posted on jun 1, 2016 posted in: loving the entrepreneur, random musings rand has to be the grown-up most of the time. this is largely my fault. last night he was trying to come up with dinner ideas and i suggested raw cookie dough (note: i didn’t suggest it as the main dish. i’m not totally irresponsible. i just suggested it as a side, instead of vegetables).… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 9 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.