home page | latest posts | links | must reads | update profile | rss | login/register | ad-free rules & faqs | privacy policy | search | post | contact | logout | forgot password | search using google post new article friday, march 27, 2020 german cathedral shines spotlight on little- known st. corona and we thought it was named after a beer. coronavirus is killing the biden campaign — and making him look like a fool it's not the virus, it's the man himself. paging george orwell: watch la mayor announce spy program to threaten open businesses during covid-19 scare why isn't animal farm required reading in public schools? joe biden’s picks for the first female veep it's just satire with a hint of truth. covid-19 deaths so far: where is the crisis? (updated) 80,000 died of flu in 2017 but nobody noticed. note to ldotters . please limit replies to one hundred words or less. dupe posts will be automatically deleted. one sentence posts automatically deleted. please do not posts from sites with paywalls. lucianne.com ad-free subscription learn more or enter code latest posts will the sussexes settle in malibu? prince harry and meghan markle viewed $20million mansion in a-list neighborhood known for its privacy, opulent beach-side villas and natural beauty before quitting canada for la replies daily mail (uk), by hayley richardson original article posted by earlybird — 3/27/2020 6:52:45 pm post reply meghan markle and prince harry have reportedly left canada for good to set up a permanent home in los angeles - and it's likely affluent malibu is top of their list. last night a royal insider claimed the duke and duchess of sussex decided to leave vancouver island - where they have been staying since announcing they were stepping down as senior royals in january - amid fears the us-canada border could close due to coronavirus. the sussexes want to be close to 'their new team of hollywood agents and prs' as well as meghan's friends and mother doria, the source told the sun. they are now believed to be in lockdown cnn analyst joe lockhart rips dr. birx for shredding alarmist theories: she’s a ‘stepford doc’ replies daily wire, by paul bois original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 6:27:25 pm post reply dr. deborah birx is about to learn what happens to people when they go against the media’s narrative. on thursday, dr. birx instilled hope in the american people when she shredded some of the alarmist models being cited in the media, particularly, the imperial college london model that dramatically decreased its predicted number of covid-19 cases from 500,000 to 20,000. “i am sure many ever you saw the recent report out of the u.k. about them adjusting completely their needs,” she said. “this is really quite important biden says phillies ball cap the ‘way to be able to sleep with my wife’ in kimmel appearance replies breitbart clips, by jeff poor original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 6:19:55 pm post reply during a wide-ranging interview with abc’s jimmy kimmel that aired on thursday that touched everything from president donald trump’s coronavirus response to his eventual running mate selection, former vice president joe biden revealed that his allegiance to major league baseball’s philadelphia phillies had to do with his wife’s preferences. biden’s wife jill biden, a native of willow grove, pa, which is just outside of philadelphia, the home of the phillies franchise. exchange as follows: kimmel: hello, joe biden. biden: what’s that hat you have on? kimmel: uh, new york mets breaking: trish regan out at fox business replies daily caller, by shelbytalcott original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 6:13:36 pm post reply former fox business anchor trish regan is out at the network, according to statements from fox business and regan. regan hosted “trish regan primetime,” which was put on hiatus amid the novel coronavirus crisis. the show was put on pause two weeks ago because of the demands of coronavirus coverage, according to the network. “trish regan primetime” was paused after regan made controversial comments about the novel coronavirus on march 9. fox business did not say this was what caused her hiatus, and announced friday that the network had “parted way” with regan. meghan and harry forget all about their vow to never live in america so long as trump is president, moving to hollywood replies american thinker, by monica showalter original article posted by pageturner — 3/27/2020 5:50:46 pm post reply meghan markle and hubby prince harry weren't as sour about sharing a country with president trump as we last heard from meghan. according to page six at the new york post: prince harry and meghan markle have fled coronavirus in canada to set up a permanent home in california, taking a private jet to los angeles, a source confirmed to page six. the couple, with their 10-month-old baby, archie, took a secret flight to the la area, leaving their recent bolthole on vancouver island after canadian prime minister justin trudeau announced the country's borders were closing last week. dreamers to supreme court: coronavirus is reason to preserve daca replies washington times, by stephen dinan original article posted by ribicon — 3/27/2020 5:48:43 pm post reply illegal immigrant “dreamers” told the supreme court on friday they are a key resource to combat the coronavirus crisis and that it’s another reason the high court should reject president trump’s attempt to end the daca program. in a letter to the justices, lawyers for dreamers said there are 27,000 daca recipients working in health care as nurses, home health aides, pharmacists and the like. “the pandemic sheds new light on the reliance interests of healthcare providers and the public health consequences of ignoring those interests,” the lawyers wrote.(snip) the court heard oral argument on the case earlier this term and a decision president trump signs into law $2 trillion coronavirus bailout replies new york post, by ebony bowden & steven nelson original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 5:34:29 pm post reply washington — president trump on friday signed into law a historic $2.2 trillion coronavirus rescue package, the largest stimulus deal in united states history, as the pandemic devastates the nation’s economy and sickens thousands.“this will deliver urgently needed relief to our nation’s families, workers and businesses and that’s what this is all about,” trump said in the oval office flanked by gop lawmakers and administration officials.“i want to thank republicans and democrats for coming together, setting aside their differences and putting america first,” he added china supplied faulty coronavirus test kits to spain, czech republic replies national review, by miaread mcardle original article posted by flyright — 3/27/2020 4:43:12 pm post reply up to 80 percent of the 150,000 portable, quick coronavirus test kits china delivered to the czech republic earlier this month were faulty, according to local czech news site expats.cz. the tests can produce a result in 10 or 15 minutes but are usually less accurate than other tests. because of the high error rate, the country will continue to rely on conventional laboratory tests, of which they perform about 900 a day. usa ryder cup star davis love iii escapes as home burns down in terrifying blaze replies mirror [uk], by darren wells original article posted by northerndog — 3/27/2020 4:15:31 pm post reply pga tour golfer davis love iii and his wife escaped unharmed from a huge fire which burnt their house to the ground. the former usa ryder cup team captain - who led the us to victory in 2016 - was inside the property in sea island, georgia, with spouse robin when it caught ablaze in the middle of the night. glynn county firefighters were called to tackle the fire at 5:18am, but the house was already destroyed when the first truck arrived at 5:23am. chief of the precinct r.k. jordan said: "the house was gone upon our arrival." in total four dead on carnival-owned cruise ship amid new coronavirus outbreak aboard replies cnbc, by william feuer original article posted by northerndog — 3/27/2020 4:04:57 pm post reply four passengers died aboard holland america’s “zaandam” cruise ship and two people on board tested positive for the coronavirus, the company announced friday. the company, which is owned by parent carnival corp., did not say how many passengers and crew were tested but said 53 passengers and 85 crew members are exhibiting symptoms consistent with the coronavirus. there are more than 1,800 people aboard the ship, the company said, adding that four doctors and four nurses are also on board. the zaandam is now at least the third carnival-owned ship to become the site of a coronavirus outbreak. the company trump orders gm to open their shuttered ohio plant and 'start making ventilators now' as he threatens to invoke special defense powers claiming company tried to price gouge replies daily mail (uk), by goeff earle original article posted by harlowe — 3/27/2020 3:13:41 pm post reply president donald trump is demanding general motors start manufacturing desperately needed ventilators 'now' – after a stunning report his administration stalled a potential deal over the cost.(snip) general motors must immediately open their stupidly abandoned lordstown plant in ohio, or some other plant, and start making ventilators, now!!!!!! ford, get going on ventilators, fast!!!!!!' trump wrote. trump also teed off on the company in an additional tweet, blaming the firm for the breakdown in the deal--amid signals that the big three manufacturer's hometown of detroit is in for some difficult days of shortages due to the coronavirus. covid-19: lakewood police crash another wedding replies daily voice [englewood, nj], by jon craig original article posted by ribicon — 3/27/2020 2:23:03 pm post reply lakewood police cited yet another jersey shore wedding host for holding a large gathering during the coronavirus outbreak, authorities said. officers responding to another call thursday saw 40 or so people gathered on wayne street, ocean county prosecutor bradley billhimer said friday. they issued a summons to local resident william katzenstein, 39, for "violating any rule or regulation adopted by the governor," the prosecutor said. then everyone dispersed, he said. lakewood police last week broke up 17 over-sized gatherings that violated state coronavirus prevention orders. they didn't arrest anyone, contrary to multiple media reports. gov. phil murphy signed an executive order coronavirus in new york: letitia james leads fight to stop texas abortion ban replies new york post, by rebecca rosenberg original article posted by ribicon — 3/27/2020 2:11:23 pm post reply new york attorney general letitia james is leading a coalition to stop texas from blocking abortions during the coronavirus pandemic, her office announced friday. earlier this week, texas issued a directive banning all non-emergency surgeries and procedures, including abortions, to free up resources. “texas and other states are using the coronavirus as an excuse to deny women their constitutional right to an abortion,” james said in a statement. “this is a full-on assault on women’s reproductive rights not only in texas, but across the country, and i will not allow any state to usurp the rights of women enshrined in the constitution.” lawsuit accuses ice, sherburne county of jailing and trying to deport us citizen replies kstp-tv [minneapolis st. paul], by eric rasmussen , ana lastra & joe augustine original article posted by voxpopuli — 3/27/2020 2:10:15 pm post reply a coon rapids man is accusing a minnesota county jail and the federal government of unlawfully detaining him for nearly a year, even after an immigration judge ruled he was a united states citizen and should not be deported. the american civil liberties union of minnesota (aclu-mn) filed the lawsuit thursday in the u.s. district court in minnesota on behalf of ali abdalla, 34. (snip) they’re also asking the courts to award abdalla compensatory damages. what is a ventilator? the 'critical resource' is in short supply replies nbc news, by elizabeth chuck original article posted by earlybird — 3/27/2020 2:05:02 pm post reply the coronavirus is straining the global health care system, and one piece of lifesaving medical equipment is in particularly scarce supply: mechanical ventilators. (snip)ventilators are hospital bedside machines that assist with two critical functions: getting enough oxygen into the bloodstream and clearing out carbon dioxide, which can build up when the patient is too weak or sick to move air in and out of the lungs. a ventilator helps patients who cannot properly breathe on their own by pumping air into their lungs through a tube that has been inserted into their windpipes. because covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, affects the respiratory system, the number of hospitalized patients in coronavirus likely to kill 81k in us over next four months, study warns replies new york post, by lee brown original article posted by altad — 3/27/2020 1:58:36 pm post reply the coronavirus is likely to kill more than 81,000 people in the us over the next four months — but the death toll could be twice that if precautions like social distancing are relaxed too soon, according to an alarming new study. deaths from the contagion are largely expected to peak in the second week of april — later in states where the spread (snip) an analysis by the university of washington school of medicine forecasts.the final death toll is unlikely to be less than 38,000 nationally and could be as high as 162,000 — with the team predicting the most likely number to be 81,114 deaths. opinion: gov. whitmer, request funds from fema replies detroit news, by tori sachs original article posted by jackburton — 3/27/2020 1:48:39 pm post reply four weeks after gov. gretchen whitmer joined sen. gary peters in sending a press statement welcoming federal funds to michigan for the coronavirus crisis response, it was confirmed by the federal emergency management agency (fema) that whitmer has yet to formally request federal emergency funds for our state. whitmer has spent the past couple weeks making national tv appearances(snip) nearly every time, whitmer has blamed the federal government ‘times up biden’ trends as dems fret over 2020 chances: ‘trump’s going to eat him alive!’ replies bizpac review, by tom tillison original article posted by ladydawgfan — 3/27/2020 1:28:43 pm post reply for a host of reasons, not the least of which being newly reported details of an alleged sexual assault, a social media campaign has emerged to remind joe biden that his time is up. the hashtag #timesupbiden began trending online after a former staffer accused then-sen. biden of forcibly penetrating her against her will with his fingers in 1993. as bizpac review reported, tara reade accused biden of inappropriate touching last spring, and she just admitted to rolling stone magazine that the 2020 democratic front-runner’s behavior extended way beyond just mere touching. “i was wearing a blouse, and he just had me up against the wall, and the wall was cold,” reade said. justice department sues anthem for alleged diagnosis fraud scheme totaling millions of dollars replies washington examiner, by jerry dunleavy original article posted by earlybird — 3/27/2020 1:21:51 pm post reply the justice department sued anthem, one of the nation’s largest health insurance providers, over an alleged fraudulent scheme to inflate diagnosis numbers to scam medicare out of millions of dollars a year. it is among the largest medicare fraud lawsuits yet. investigators said that they filed this civil lawsuit because anthem “falsely certified the accuracy of the diagnosis data it submitted to the centers for medicare and medicaid services for risk-adjustment purposes under medicare part c and knowingly failed to delete inaccurate diagnosis codes” between 2014 and 2018. thomas massie's forced coronavirus vote is irresponsible replies washington examiner, by kaylee mcghee original article posted by earlybird — 3/27/2020 1:03:43 pm post reply the house was expected to pass a $2 trillion relief package friday morning to ease the economic burden that has resulted from the coronavirus pandemic. but republican rep. thomas massie may have just delayed that relief from reaching businesses and families. massie announced friday morning that he would defy gop leadership and request a roll call vote on the relief package, which means that if 216 lawmakers are not physically present in the house to vote on the measure, the relief package will remain at a standstill until quorum is reached. while rep. alexandria ocasio-cortez also considered blocking the bill, it seemed set to pass quickly on friday, until massie donald trump: throw thomas massie out of republican party replies washington examiner, by charlie spiering original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 12:56:27 pm post reply president donald trump berated rep. thomas massie (r-ky) on friday, demanding the republicans throw him out of the party for obstructing the massive coronavirus rescue package.“win back house, but throw massie out of republican party!” trump wrote on twitter. (tweets) the president described the famous republican libertarian as a “third rate grandstander” who was obstructing the bill. “he just wants the publicity. he can’t stop it, only delay, which is both dangerous and costly,” trump wrote. 'you will see darkness': shouting democrat ruled out of order in house floor speech on coronavirus bill replies washington examiner, by spencer neale original article posted by imright — 3/27/2020 12:52:14 pm post reply in a heated debate regarding a proposed economic relief bill to provide financial protection for american businesses and workers during the coronavirus pandemic, one michigan democrat demanded to be heard after her allotted speaking time on the house floor had expired.donning pink latex gloves, rep. haley stevens shouted at colleagues on thursday even as she was ruled out of order. steven's voice grew louder despite house majority leader steny hoyer's attempts to give her more time to finish speaking.“sharing in the profession with those who have not come before you!” stevens said. hhs inspector general reportedly planning multiple probes into trump admin covid-19 response replies bizpac review, by vivek saxena original article posted by ladydawgfan — 3/27/2020 12:41:28 pm post reply the office of inspector general (oig) for the u.s. department of health and human services reportedly plans to launch multiple investigations into the trump administration’s coronavirus response, in part because of another whistleblower complaint. “a spokesperson for the hhs inspector general [said] that investigators will carry out at least five reviews ‘related to hhs’s planning and response of the covid-19 outbreak,'” the washington examiner reported wednesday. “the inquiries will scrutinize issues such as nationwide hospital responses, quarantine procedures, the training and protective gear provided to front-line health workers, nursing home standards amid a disease with an exponentially more deadly effect on the elderly and the already ill, inside joe biden’s bizarre coronavirus bunker replies politico, by ryan lizza original article posted by garnet — 3/27/2020 12:13:14 pm post reply the biden campaign has been studying the ’18 midterms. no, not the ones two years ago when democrats took over the house by aggressively recruiting moderates and sweeping swing districts across the country, a precursor to biden’s own centrist strategy in the democratic presidential primaries this year.they’ve been studying the midterms of 1918, the year of the spanish flu pandemic when large gatherings were banned in many places and candidates were forced to invent new ways to communicate with voters and run their campaigns. turnout plummeted that year to 40%, from 50% in the 1914 midterms. “we went back and looked at voting in 1918,” said anita dunn, more articles home page | latest posts | links | must reads | update profile | rss | login/register rules & faqs | privacy policy | search | post | contact | logout | forgot password | search using google post new article