home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home photography luminar 4.2 is out now with a new ai augmented sky tool! luminar 4.2 - sky-based composite photography opportunities photography recommendations templates luminar 4.2 is out now with a new ai augmented sky tool! reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email sky-based composite photography opportunities with luminar 4.2. skylum recently announced the latest update for its flagship product, luminar and we had the honor to have a closer look at the pre-release. version 4.2 is now available as a free update for all luminar 4 users. it contains important enhancements across the application, plus the brand-new “ai augmented sky” feature that helps photographers and digital artists to create eye-catching effects in no time. you can learn more below or click on the following link to download the latest version of this award-winning image editing software. purchase here. use luminar’s new ai augmented sky tool to create stunning visual effects. with new features such as the new ai augmented sky tool, the award-winning photo editing software expands into a creative powerhouse, allowing both photographers and digital artists to express themselves through new ways of editing images. the revolutionary feature enables you to place different objects directly in the sky. creatives can choose objects from the luminar database or use their own. this way, you can either create a realistic landscape or transform it into a surreal artwork. even images with detailed backgrounds like trees or buildings are suitable without masking or layering. the ai augmented sky tool automatically detects a photo’s sky and adds the chosen object to the area. it’s fun to see how the objects seamlessly fit into the photograph. foreground objects are taken into account automatically by content-aware technologies, making them blend naturally with the sky. learn more about other features below or click on the following link to try the software on your own. purchase here. ai augmented sky luminar 4.2 also comes with new updates to the popular portrait tools. the software can now help you restore skin in overly shiny areas as well as more effectively slim faces. equipped with a new architecture of the face features detection neural network, luminar 4.2 provides even better automation when it comes to enhancing portraits. the technology detects different faces in all sorts of positions. it can detect people of any hue of skin or age as well as spotting all the faces in a group photo. these are just a few enhancements of version 4.2. to learn more about all new features, just follow the link below. purchase here. ai augmented sky (before & after) ai augmented sky (before & after) purchase here. all images © by skylum and the respective artists and photographers. header image © by aaron sebastian. subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy no ratings yet. please rate this article. rate here: tags image editing luminar luminar 4.2 software reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author photography luminar — photo editing software design the best web design software for use in 2020 recommendations art text – lettering and typography software for mac photography google snapseed app – photo editing for android and ios design getting started with e-commerce design fl studio mobile – interaction and user interface design leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled