i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: roasted pumpkin and sage grilled cheese recipes → comfort → mac and cheese pie recipe jump to recipe comfort/mains/meat/recipes/that noodle life mac and cheese pie recipe posted december 4, 2013 by stephanie i’m fresh off the plane from my trip to australia, and the one thing that stuck out for me about the land down under, aside from the abundance of cute marsupials, is the fact that they love pies. there were so many pie places, it was crazy. i think their official food might be meat pie. pies and sausage rolls. they were sold everywhere: coffee shops, random street stands, and of course they had several dedicated pie only shops. i was surprised because i never knew that pie was such a big food thing in australia. and that kind of got me thinking: what weird food things are people surprised by when they visit north america. i mean, of course we have burgers, hot dogs and fries, but there are a bunch of speciality shops popping up that sell one thing and one thing only. in vancouver we have a mac and cheese only specialty shop and i know they have one in new york city as well. and in fact, this recipe is inspired by just that type of restaurant: homeroom, a restaurant in oakland, california that serves only mac and cheese. i’ve never been to homeroom in oakland, i love mac and cheese and i love shepherd’s pie, so when i saw this crazy mashup on buzzfeed (i admit, i have a wee addiction to the time suck that is buzzfeed), i though: genius! it’s truly amazing: creamy, cheesy mac on top of savoury beef and vegetables. mike and i polished off the entire dish in one sitting — we just kept going back for seconds, even after we were like, “okay, okay, last time.” i think you’ll be addicted to this too, give it a try! mac and cheese pie recipe inspired by the mac + cheese cookbook serves 2-4 beef base oil 1/2 small onion, diced 1 small carrot, diced 1/2 lb ground beef 1/2 cup frozen peas salt and pepper mac and cheese 1 cup macaroni 1 1/2 tablespoons butter 2 tablespoons flour 1 1/4 cups milk 1 1/2 cups grated cheddar salt and pepper to taste preheat the oven to 400°f. in a skillet, heat up a bit of oil over medium high heat. add the onion and carrots and cook until slightly softened. remove from the pan and set aside. add a bit more oil to the pan and cook the beef until deeply browned. drain off excess fat, if needed. stir in the onions, carrots, and frozen peas. taste and season with salt and pepper. spoon the beef mixture into a oven proof dish and set aside while making the macaroni and cheese. cook the macaroni according to the package, drain and set aside. over medium heat, melt the butter. add the flour and stir constantly over medium heat for about three minutes, until smooth. pour in half of the milk in a thin stream while whisking. when smooth, add the rest of the milk. keep on medium heat and stir for about 10 minutes, until the sauce thickens. taste and season with salt and pepper. stir in 1 cup of cheddar. add the drained macaroni and stir to coat. top the beef and sprinkle on the remaining 1/2 cup of cheese. bake until cheese is melted and bubbly, about 15-20 minutes. enjoy warm. 16 comments sarah | the sugar hit says: december 4, 2013 at 5:01 pm i can’t believe you didn’t know about aussies and pies! i thought we were famous for it! this looks like an awesome fusing of our two cultures. reply amie says: december 5, 2013 at 10:32 am this makes me want to cry tears of joy. reply anna @ bashful bao says: december 5, 2013 at 10:56 am i am loving the cheesy-meaty action going on here. gotta try this sometime soon! reply wyn says: december 6, 2013 at 7:16 am everytime i try to make mac and cheese, the sauce become grainy and not cheesy. how did you get your mac and cheese to look so cheesy and sticky? reply erin says: december 9, 2013 at 6:53 pm add the milk slowly to the butter/flour mixture and the sauce won’t break. reply bad andy says: january 8, 2014 at 12:15 pm you can add even a lot of cold milk quickly so long as the roux (butter/flour mix) is a 1:1 uratio and you let the hot butter start to cook the flour. use a wire whisk to stir rapidly. reply lynne says: february 27, 2014 at 10:48 am remove your sauce from the heat before adding the cheese. it’s the high heat that causes the cheese to break down and get grainy. if you’re making something that requires you to continue heating after you’ve added the cheese, don’t use a high heat. reply mycityfoodies says: december 9, 2013 at 12:52 am amazingly done. thanks for the recepie. i love it. reply trisha says: december 10, 2013 at 4:19 am wow. just wow. looks like just what i need during this hideous winter weather. x reply maureen munro says: january 26, 2014 at 7:39 am i was googling for a mac and cheese pie (like a steak & kidney pie) but with shortcrust pastry. couldn’t fine one then saw this one and i am going to try it asap reply suzi says: february 18, 2014 at 8:29 am this look incredible! reply lynne says: february 27, 2014 at 10:43 am i made this last night and it was super easy and really delicious. i subbed a can of peas and carrots for the frozen peas and raw carrot and cooked the onion right along with the ground beef. otherwise i made it just as written. will definitely be making it again. reply bec says: october 26, 2014 at 2:13 am oh my gosh yes. i live in australia and i can vouch.. i had a spinach and cheese ‘sausage’ roll with tomato sauce for breakfast this morning, reply john jenkins says: july 28, 2016 at 3:15 pm i’m going to get my wife to try tis. it sounds so saticefing thank you for this great recipe! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website beefcheddarcheesecomfortcomfort foodhangover foodmacaronipieshepherd's pie other posts you might enjoy december 4, 2013 mini french onion mac and cheese recipe december 4, 2013 how to cook basmati rice in a pot december 4, 2013 keep.com gift guide december 4, 2013 pumpkin and pork cheesy stuffed shells december 4, 2013 fluffy japanese pancakes: souffle pancake recipe instant pot pasta and meatballsread 10 super cozy japanese inspired recipes to warm you up this winterread spicy chili crisp grilled cheeseread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved