home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home illustration made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins. illustration made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email made with love—poster design by balbusso twins created as support to all the people forced to stay in isolation and countries affected by the coronavirus. on the occasion of valentine’s day 2020, the two italian graphic designers and illustrators anna and elena balbusso created this personal poster as a support to all the people forced to stay in isolation and countries affected by the coronavirus. the artwork is available as a digital stock image at theispot.com. for those of you looking for creative distractions from all the negative news about the worldwide epidemic triggered by the coronavirus (covid-19), just visit the website of the balbusso twins. in addition, you can also follow them on behance and instagram. made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins. made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins. made with love (despite coronavirus) by balbusso twins. all images © by balbusso twins. do not hesitate to find other inspiring work in our popular graphic design and illustration categories. subscribe to our newsletter! by continuing, you accept the privacy policy 5/5 (6) please rate this article. rate here: tags balbusso twins coronavirus illustration love poster reddit pinterest facebook twitter tumblr linkedin whatsapp telegram mix vk line viber email dirk petzold of course, we are on instagram: @weandthecolor :) related articlesmore from author illustration rachael presky illustrations design covid-19 quarantine: what to do to stay creatively motivated during isolation illustration illustrations of famous actors by ricardo polo illustration choi haeryung illustrations art botanical inspiration: nature in art and illustration art agglomerations — drawings by felipe bedoya illustration nature master collection for procreate with 99 brushes illustration the nightmare illustration by karolis strautniekas books the illustrator. 100 best from around the world leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. current ye@r * leave this field empty email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled