close demo magazine pro theme package see pricing and buy theme skip to content skip to primary sidebar studiopress customer portal gutenberg ready create a site framework performance security seo plugins updates support plans and pricing shop for themes get started pro plus showcase faq genesis framework login magazine pro theme package + genesis framework package put yourself on the front lines of online publishing with the up-to-the-minute, high-gloss look and feel of the magazine theme. your online features never looked better than with the versatile layouts and media-ready design of the magazine theme. a stylish frame speaks volumes about the publisher. $99.95 buy theme + framework package live demo live demo want the best deals on studiopress themes? free themes on wp engine free themes for agency partners buy all themes & save > $1,700! gutenberg optimized building for the first time? gutenberg enables developers and designers to create reusable modules for design and content. our gutenberg optimized themes empower end-users to customize those modules—or combine with others—ensuring font, color, layout, and styling is consistent from the back-end to the front-end, enabling you to do everything from launching twenty simple landing pages in an hour to building a complex new digital experience. theme options use options to get up and running in minutes and start customizing your new site with just a few clicks of the mouse. ecommerce this is a flexible, open source, ecommerce theme that is pre-styled for woocommerce and bigcommerce so you can easily set up your online store. theme customizer the theme customizer allows you to tweak the theme’s settings, color scheme, and content and see a preview of those changes in real time. homepage widget areas build up your site with 3 homepage widget areas that you can customize to fit your brand. customizable header upload your own logo with the press of a button. full support for text-based logos for those just getting started. mobile responsive this theme is mobile responsive, meaning your website will be perfectly optimized for every browser, device, and screen size. primary sidebar magazine pro theme package + genesis framework package the magazine pro theme package includes the following functionality: color customizer custom header ecommerce custom menus featured images threaded comments footer widgets html5 markup mobile responsive theme options landing page gutenberg optimized layout options: content-sidebar sidebar-content content-sidebar-sidebar sidebar-sidebar-content sidebar-content-sidebar full-width-content buy theme package + framework package magazine pro theme package + genesis framework package get your site up and running with the magazine pro theme package and the genesis framework package today. $99.95 includes the genesis framework package includes the magazine pro theme package get instant access unlimited updates & sites unlimited support for 1 year access to detailed tutorials one-time purchase fee buy theme + framework pro plus membership best value save over $1200! download our entire theme collection. a great value for designers and developers. $499.95 includes the genesis framework package access to detailed theme tutorials includes every theme we make includes all future themes we make unlimited updates & sites unlimited support for 1 year savings of more than $1200! see pricing and details footer studiopress © 2020 wpengine, inc. products all-in-one with wp engine shop for themes theme features getting started showcase company brand assets terms of service acceptable use policy privacy policy refund policy contact us community find developers forums facebook group #genesiswp showcase resources studiopress blog help & documentation faqs code snippets affiliates connect studiopress live studiopress fm facebook twitter dribbble