maggie's farm we are a commune of inquiring, skeptical, politically centrist, capitalist, anglophile, traditionalist new england yankee humans, humanoids, and animals with many interests beyond and above politics. each of us has had a high-school education (or ged), but all had add so didn't pay attention very well, especially the dogs. each one of us does "try my best to be just like i am," and none of us enjoys working for others, including for maggie, from whom we receive neither a nickel nor a dime. freedom from nags, cranks, government, do-gooders, control-freaks and idiots is all that we ask for. our recent essays behind the front page differing chanukah stories still argued--repost from 2012 and 2014 with 2019 additions at top and end re: during holocaust my yom kippur miracle (repost from 2010) how to honor labor day, every day good intro to fly casting peach update, with pie nyc update easy for you to say: to the elites on mass immigration for nyc on 9/11, sailors' snug harbor pickled peaches water shoes labor costs in u.s. your "identity" good news about the great courses bug of the week: crickets chirping uses of hot pepper jelly/sauce, chutneys, and jams a saturday drive to litchfield county, ct how to pick a kayak civilized: fruit forks and knives loads of kayaking on cape cod psychology experiments' questionable results categories advice and tips for commenters best essays of the year dr. mercury's computer corner education fallacies and logic food and drink gardens, plants, etc. history hot news & misc. short subjects hunting, fishing, dogs, guns, etc. medical music natural history and conservation our essays physical fitness politics psychology, and dr. bliss quotidian quotable quote (qqq) religion saturday verse the culture, "culture," pop culture and recreation the song and dance man travelogues and travel ideas all categories quicksearch links and other countries israpundit no pasaran solomonia anglosphere david thompson david warren eu referendum last of the few (theo) samizdata small dead animals spiked stumbling and mumbling dylan sites about bob dylan all along the watchtower bob dylan.com dylantree expecting rain eclectic acculturated aeon magazine aleteia althouse american digest american scholar american spectator assistant village idiot atlantic cities audubon magazine big think bon appetit brain pickings coyote blog ephemeral new york forgotten new york fred on everything free range kids gardening know-how genesius times house of eratosthenes hunter-angler-gardener-cook instapundit intellectual takeout jungle trader let grow livestrong matt walsh mental floss new urbs old urbanist overcoming bias quillette scott adams shorpy sippican cottage spectator usa sporting classics daily taki's magazine ted the art of manliness the atlantic the babylon bee the babylon bee the borderline sociopathic blog for boys the daily prep the great books (nr) the history blog the millions the smart set the z blog urbanophile watts up with that? west hunter woodpile report economics and economy barrons business insider businesspundit cafe hayek calculated risk carpe diem consumerism commentary e21 econlog environmental economics keith hennessey library of economics and liberty ludwig van mises institute marginal revolution megan mcardle msm money real clear markets supply and demand zero hedge education campus reform chronicle of higher ed college fix college insurrection education reform fire heterodox academy inside higher ed minding the campus national association of scholars the pope center funny pages fark iowahawk the onion the people's cube gardening gardening know-how legal above the law adjunct law prof blog international liberty legal insurrection library of law and liberty lowering the bar overlawyered point of law tax prof blog medical council on science and health db's medical rants kevin, m.d. rc health the health care blog mostly political ace of spades american conservative american future american power american spectator american spectator arnold kling's blog belmont club big government bookworm room cato at liberty conservatism today daily pundit democracy dinocrat don surber doug ross journal dumb still looks free ed driscoll environmental republican fausta future of capitalism gateway pundit gay patriot george reisman greenfield, the point hit and run - reason hot air hugh hewitt issues and insights just one minute kausfiles manhattan contrararian mark steyn moonbattery national review neo-neocon never yet melted nice deb notes on liberty power line redstate roger l. simon scott adams sister toldjah sultan knish the iconoclast the other mccain the pirate's cove vdh's private papers washington rebel weasel zippers preachers acton institute christ and pop culture first things first things news for christians patheos pjm faith real clear religion real clear religion relevant magazine touchstone science american council on science and health american scientist bbc science climate skeptic global warming policy foundation icecap junk science live science live science message to eagle nature neurologica neurophiliosophy neurophilosophy new scientist popular science real clear science real science science blogs science daily science direct shrinks ars psychiatrica dr. bliss (of maggie's farm) f*ck feelings had enough therapy? international psychoanalysis neuroanthropology one cosmos parenting, pjm psychiatric times slate star codex the news, and opinions am spectator news american conservative american conservative american spectator american spectator american thinker american.com arts and letters daily boston review christian science monitor city journal cns news commentary contentions crosscurrents magazine daily caller daily signal daily wire defining ideas dennis prager drudge federalist papers fee first principles fora tv foreign policy fox news front page magazine gatestone gatestone institute human events ibd editorials intelligent life lucianne memeorandum national affairs national journal national review national review new english review new york sun newsmax ny post pacific standard pajamas media patriot post politico quartz real clear policy real clear politics real clear world reason roger's rules salon smithsonian magazine standpoint steyn online tcs daily the american scholar the american spectator the cato institute the claremont institute the corner at nr the corner at nro the economist the economist the examiner the examiner, opinion the federalist the federalist the federalist the hill the independent the new atlantis the new criterion the new criterion the new york sun the patriot post the unz review the washington examiner the washington times the week the weekly standard the wilson quarterly thomas sowell town hall town hall town hall blog truth revolt washington examiner washington free beacon washington free beacon washington times washington times weekly standard works and days (vdh) blog administration open login screen rss readers friday, march 27. 2020 explosion of leftist hate aimed at dr birx explosion of leftist hate aimed at dr birx after she demolishes media’s panic narrative. panic serves all sorts of political and psychological needs. related, the president understands that we need a sustainable strategy to defeat the virus and that the current lockdown is unsustainable. it takes common sense to avoid the bug. simple. posted by bird dog in hot news & misc. short subjects at 14:27 | comment (1) | trackbacks (0) protecting your family: good info from dr. david price at columbia-cornell click the link to get the vimeo despite the "sorry" note. yes, he is optimistic. "don't be scared." covid_19_protecting_your_family_dr_dave_price_3_22_2020 from mariana price on vimeo. posted by dr. joy bliss at 09:05 | comments (4) | trackbacks (0) friday morning links doj says title ix doesn't cover transgender status of high school athletes before the virus, we cared about crazy stuff like that metoo legal fund refused to help biden accuser, claiming it couldn’t risk nonprofit status since he’s running for president joe biden said he believes all women. does he believe tara reade? a former staffer says he sexually assaulted her in 1993. in campus sex cases, cross-examination is now on the table lindsey graham begins probe into origins of fbi’s russia operation williamson on markets: be thankful for the opportunists unemployment benefit claims skyrocket to 3.283 million this is a war': nyc doctors describe fight against coronavirus lessons on enduring coronavirus crisis from these heroes of vietnam trump campaign threatens to sue networks airing ad claiming he called coronavirus a 'hoax' he never said it media push to censor president trump's coronavirus briefings trump press conferences a massive ratings hit, now you know why liberals want network broadcasts stopped in the same poll where trump triumphs on covid-19 response, the media come in dead last coronavirus response: hospitals rated best, news media worst hhs ig now investigating trump administration response to coronavirus outbreak after dem request glad they have their priorities straight trump tells governors he is setting new coronavirus guidelines at taki: if, as the evidence suggests, the chinese virus is enormously dangerous to people with certain medical conditions and those over 70 years old, but a much smaller danger to those under 70, then shutting down the entire country indefinitely is probably a bad idea. but even when the time is right — by easter, june or the fall — there will be no one to stop the quarantine because the media will continue to hype every coronavirus death, as if these are the only deaths that count and the only deaths that were preventable. what mayor, governor or president will be willing to take the blame for causing a coronavirus death? that's when pols are challenged - when all options suck. this thing is loose on the planet, and will never go away entirely. like flu never goes away, despite vaccines. in the midst of coronavirus crisis, pelosi goes for woke radical environmentalists welcome wuhan virus “we’re f***ed”: aircraft carrier outbreak sends troops scrambling us overtakes china as the country with the most covid-19 cases if anybody believes china forecast of british coronavirus deaths revised, um, downward russia (finally) admits wuhan coronavirus pandemic within its borders: “a serious situation is unfolding” 80% of coronavirus test kits 'gifted' to czechs by china faulty - china charged czech government millions of crowns for defective coronavirus test kits spain, europe's worst-hit country after italy, says coronavirus tests it bought from china are failing to detect positive cases posted by bird dog in hot news & misc. short subjects at 06:48 | comments (23) | trackbacks (0) thursday, march 26. 2020 not about virus: congo bush pilots ballsy guys with hopeless jobs but doing their best, and a good glimpse of congo posted by the news junkie at 17:20 | comments (0) | trackbacks (0) a maggie's scientific virus survey how are our readers dealing with this current mess? your work situation, getting outdoors, shopping, exercise, masks, level of fear, etc. as for me, working from home (no choice), shopping every other day, using purell, and exercising in the barn. no socializing. riding and hiking this weekend. not paranoid, just going along with the general tendencies. posted by the barrister at 15:26 | comments (43) | trackbacks (0) the panic, the hysteria, the mob mentality that has swept over the country is an amazing and disheartening thing to witness. roger kimball: covid-19, the elephant, and the house cat: the really scary thing about this latest health scare is not the disease but the unexpected depths of passivity it revealed. ... the biggest threat to mankind that the world has ever seen: the covid-19 virus, also know as the chinese flu, which to date has killed—are you ready—276 people in the united states, almost all of them over 80, almost all with serious co-morbidities. two-hundred-and-seventy-six people! and yes, that frightening number will rise. it will be 400, 500 before you know it. maybe when all is said and done, we’ll see 1,000-1,200 identified who have died from complications that can be traced to this respiratory illness. meanwhile, somewhere between 22,000 and more than 50,000 people have died from the seasonal flu in the united states this year. why is there no panic about that? kimball is a smart guy. what's your view? you are smart too. posted by the news junkie in hot news & misc. short subjects at 12:53 | comments (32) | trackbacks (0) thursday morning links garth brooks and wife trisha yearwood crash facebook live with free concert orchestra plays beethoven 9th from their homes the waffle house index why the coronavirus has been so successful - we’ve known about sars-cov-2 for only three months, but scientists can make some educated guesses about where it came from and why it’s behaving in such an extreme way. us was more prepared for pandemic than any other country, johns hopkins study found coronavirus: new york hospital admission rates for covid-19 decreasing. 'evidence suggests density control plan may be working,' is coronavirus less fatal than early predictions suggested? contra andrew cuomo, while a grim choice, we may have to restart the economy an easter rebirth for our economy? hallelujah: goodwin it's a goal analysis: how south korea flattened the curve without shutting down its economy harvard: let them eat cake democratic networks tune trump out they don't want people seeing him doing his job we will remember dems’ stimulus holdup nope. people forget. am thinker: had the roles been reversed, and it was a president hillary clinton, the dmic would be praising her “grace under fire,” “bold leadership,” and “extraordinary focus and articulation, given how little rest she’s recently gotten.” oh wait, never mind, max boot, a columnist for the washington post, and former “republican,” wants us to know that had clinton won the presidency in 2016, all would be well, and we never had it better than when the community organizer was our president. democrats have misread the moment biden super pac ad attacks trump for coronavirus response, repeats debunked claim he called it a ‘hoax’… the virus is a fire, and the arsonist is china ‘cheap manufacturing be damned’: sentiment builds for moving u.s. companies out of china in spain you can't use your own back yard. police make sure of it... sheesh. fresh air and sunshine kills bugs. iran expels 'doctors without borders' team despite 1800 virus deaths no biggie. iran just stole a billion euros in coronavirus aid posted by bird dog in hot news & misc. short subjects at 07:17 | comments (7) | trackbacks (0) wash your hands posted by bird dog at 07:16 | comments (2) | trackbacks (0) wednesday, march 25. 2020 long haul time-waster posted by the news junkie at 16:59 | comments (3) | trackbacks (0) virus and the jacobins via hot air: nuclear households, it seems, are where we are all intuitively expected to retreat in order to prevent widespread ill-health. ‘staying home’ is what is somehow self-evidently supposed to keep us well. but there are several problems with this, as anyone inclined to think about it critically (even for a moment) might figure out – problems one might summarize as the mystification of the couple-form; the romanticisation of kinship; and the sanitization of the fundamentally unsafe space that is private property… posted by the news junkie in hot news & misc. short subjects at 15:41 | comments (9) | trackbacks (0) virus info for what it's worth, i found this useful. there are several typos and some sentences don't make sense, but i suspect english may have been the second language for the author. you'll get the ideas, which are accurate and helpful. this is from an asst. prof in infectious diseases at johns hopkins university. in our community chat, here, they sent this excellent summary to avoid contagion. i share it with you because it is very clear: the virus is not a living organism, but a protein molecule (dna) covered by a protective layer of lipid (fat), which, when absorbed by the cells of the ocular, nasal or buccal mucosa, changes their genetic code. (mutation) and convert them into aggressor and multiplier cells. since the virus is not a living organism but a protein molecule, it is not killed, but decays on its own. the disintegration time depends on the temperature, humidity and type of material where it lies. the virus is very fragile; the only thing that protects it is a thin outer layer of fat. that is why any soap or detergent is the best remedy, because the foam cuts the fat (that is why you have to rub so much: for 20 seconds or more, to make a lot of foam). by dissolving the fat layer, the protein molecule disperses and breaks down on its own. heat melts fat; this is why it is so good to use water above 25 degrees celsius for washing hands, clothes and everything. in addition, hot water makes more foam and that makes it even more useful. alcohol or any mixture with alcohol over 65% dissolves any fat, especially the external lipid layer of the virus. any mix with 1 part bleach and 5 parts water directly dissolves the protein, breaks it down from the inside. oxygenated water helps long after soap, alcohol and chlorine, because peroxide dissolves the virus protein, but you have to use it pure and it hurts your skin. no bactericide serves. the virus is not a living organism like bacteria; they cannot kill what is not alive with anthobiotics, but quickly disintegrate its structure with everything said. never shake used or unused clothing, sheets or cloth. while it is glued to a porous surface, it is very inert and disintegrates only between 3 hours (fabric and porous), 4 hours (copper, because it is naturally antiseptic; and wood, because it removes all the moisture and does not let it peel off and disintegrates). ), 24 hours (cardboard), 42 hours (metal) and 72 hours (plastic). but if you shake it or use a feather duster, the virus molecules float in the air for up to 3 hours, and can lodge in your nose. the virus molecules remain very stable in external cold, or artificial as air conditioners in houses and cars. they also need moisture to stay stable, and especially darkness. therefore, dehumidified, dry, warm and bright environments will degrade it faster. uv light on any object that may contain it breaks down the virus protein. for example, to disinfect and reuse a mask is perfect. be careful, it also breaks down collagen (which is protein) in the skin, eventually causing wrinkles and skin cancer. [db added this link regarding uvc light: https://www.insider.com/does-uv-light-kill-germs] the virus cannot go through healthy skin. vinegar is not useful because it does not break down the protective layer of fat. no spirits, nor vodka, serve. the strongest vodka is 40% alcohol, and you need 65%. listerine if it serves! it is 65% alcohol. the more confined the space, the more concentration of the virus there can be. the more open or naturally ventilated, the less. this is super said, but you have to wash your hands before and after touching mucosa, food, locks, knobs, switches, remote control, cell phone, watches, computers, desks, tv, etc. and when using the bathroom. you have to humidify hands dry from so much washing them, because the molecules can hide in the micro cracks. the thicker the moisturizer, the better. * also keep your nails short so that the virus does not hide there. posted by dr. joy bliss in medical at 09:59 | comments (17) | trackbacks (0) darn it "restore pages" did not work this morning, so lost all my saved pages. doubt i will have time today to post our team's links. feel free to put your own links of interest in the comments. thanks. posted by bird dog at 06:58 | comments (22) | trackbacks (0) tuesday, march 24. 2020 face masks they are today's fashion item, besides the rest. all cotton works if washed regularly. polyester doesn't work. from one of our favorite entrepreneurs, a go fund me with a mask for each $50 donation. any profit to the food bank. there is a massive shortage of protective face masks across the us for medical personnel and the general public. we can produce protective masks domestically -- right away -- and many people have asked how they can help, so we set up this fund. ... **please note that we have fully stopped all of our regular garment production in our factories to fill this immediate need.** posted by bird dog at 18:56 | comments (9) | trackbacks (0) not about virus: making u.s. marines posted by the news junkie in the culture, "culture," pop culture and recreation at 17:31 | comments (11) | trackbacks (0) why your parents aren’t idiots for not freaking out about coronavirus like you are "i asked my parents if they are worried about the coronavirus, and they told me they had been through much worse in their lives. they aren't freaking out like we are because they have seen it all." somewhat related: moving past the quarantine, how to get americans back to work safely it can't go on indefinitely. lives are being destroyed. it's a balancing act, but whatever they do will be wrong. reality's a bitch, but here's another problem: “i don’t care! i don’t care! i don’t care!” pelosi snaps at cnn’s dana bash for asking about trump’s plans to put america back to work posted by the barrister in hot news & misc. short subjects at 16:57 | comments (13) | trackbacks (0) a few days late kenny rogers' essential duets with dolly parton, dottie west, sheena easton & more posted by bird dog at 13:17 | comments (2) | trackbacks (0) tuesday morning links report card: universities’ sexual misconduct policies receive failing grades australia's biggest brewer says the country will run out of beer within weeks unless the industry is classed 'essential' amid coronavirus lockdown uh oh nyc mayor: we're out of supplies because of trump, didn't order supplies trump derangement syndrome is bad for your health should we all hate china now? how the coronavirus changed president trump and america the nyt takes three tries to get the narrative right about democrat obstruction indiana, massachusetts prepare 'stay at home' orders, south africa weighs '21-day' lockdown: live updates dw: bill de blasio has been slow to lead efforts to address the pandemic. as of last monday, de blasio was reportedly still dithering on whether to close schools and shutter businesses, even though other states were taking drastic measures and his own staff was so frustrated with his lack of attention that some even threatened to quit. monday morning, de blasio defied centers for disease control and prevention guidelines, taking one last opportunity to work out at his preferred brooklyn ymca shameful media still slamming donald trump during coronavirus crisis former warren, clinton aides leading 'coronavirus war room' targeting trump's response to pandemic it's always too much, or not enough biden claims he could attack virus better than trump. history says otherwise dr. anthony fauci: trump has ‘never overruled me’ or contradicted the science… pelosi's coronavirus stimulus includes return of 'obamaphones,' other unrelated items, gop says 'what the hell do we have to lose?'—trump sent malaria meds to ny to begin trials on covid-19 patients fauci cites trump travel restrictions as possible key for u.s. not 'becoming another italy' former hhs official claims cdc leaders "lied" to trump over coronavirus testing coronavirus: spanish army finds care home residents 'dead and abandoned' germany closes border to europeans, but migrants still allowed in posted by bird dog in hot news & misc. short subjects at 05:40 | comments (15) | trackbacks (0) monday, march 23. 2020 nyc with virus new york in 2020 feels like edward hopper’s city posted by the news junkie at 19:37 | comments (5) | trackbacks (0) posted by the news junkie at 17:24 | comments (3) | trackbacks (0) fun with good meat like butchering a white tail deer, but much bigger. i've done lots of deer, but never with power tools. posted by the news junkie in the culture, "culture," pop culture and recreation at 16:17 | comments (8) | trackbacks (0) virus politics via powerline commenter: via a senior gop aide, schumer/pelosi now pushing these demands amid pandemic-fueled economic collapse: 1) unprecedented collective bargaining powers for unions 2) increased fuel emissions standards for airlines 3) expansion of wind and solar tax credits this is not the time for these childish games. posted by the news junkie in hot news & misc. short subjects at 14:27 | comments (6) | trackbacks (0) irreplaceable me vdh: the virus is not invincible, but it’s exposing who’s irreplaceable when your refrigerator goes out under quarantine and your supplies begin to rot, do you really need another rant from maxine waters—or do you rather need a st. michael smith and st. uriel mendoza to appear out of nowhere as the archangels from home depot to wheel up and connect a new one? pundits are replaceable too, but not vdh. posted by the news junkie in hot news & misc. short subjects at 13:35 | comments (3) | trackbacks (0) monday morning links the legal problem with diversity statements - public universities can’t make hiring decisions based on political viewpoints amazon is hiring 100,000 workers, walmart is hiring 150,000 — here are the sectors adding jobs amid coronavirus the crisis’s impact on budgets - already strained by unfunded pension obligations, states now face a collapse in tax revenue. hey - time to raise state taxes! nyc mayor to start emptying jails over virus spread new york wouldn't spend $500 mil on ventilators, willing to spend $500 mil on illegals starbucks closes access to cafes, switches to drive-thru, delivery only not dunkin' because america runs on dunkin' a pandemic of political correctness say thanks to ‘greedy pharmaceutical companies’ — they’re our best coronavirus hope illinois governor lists gun stores as ‘essential,’ exempts them from forced shutdown chinese ambassador quotes hillary clinton’s tweet defending china and attacking trump china is not the hero of the pandemic. you can criticize trump without parroting beijing’s propaganda. journalist who called president trump’s tweet ‘ignorant snake oil drivel’ gets schooled by actual doctor "president trump has taken historic, aggressive measures to protect the health, wealth and safety of the american people — and did so, while the media and democrats chose to only focus on the stupid politics of a sham illegitimate impeachment." “i’ve voted democrat my whole life. it’s getting tougher.” are dems refusing to support $2 trillion stim bill unless it includes a bailout for planned parenthood? senate democrats block mammoth chinese coronavirus stimulus package democrats decide getting the orange man is more important than saving lives huffpo reporter: the democrats' response to the wuhan coronavirus outbreak has been disastrous stop the coronabailout from raining your money on corporate lobbyists instead of struggling americans nr: government action in response to the coronavirus is crippling our economy, destroying jobs, and risking a prolonged recession. the only thing that will stop the destruction is for our leadership to give americans a very clear mission — and a quick date certain by which to carry it out — to get the health-care situation under control and get our economy back to normal. we need a coronavirus “d-day” in a matter of weeks, not months, to beat the virus and save our economy. the clock is ticking. which is worse, the virus or the responses to it? u.s. coronavirus lockdown to last 10-12 weeks, top trump official says that is crazy talk. israeli drug company donating 6m doses of malaria drug to us to combat coronavirus good iran leader refuses us help, citing virus conspiracy theory idiots soros’ anti-israel funding evil posted by bird dog in hot news & misc. short subjects at 06:59 | comments (16) | trackbacks (0) took a drive took a drive yesterday from yankeeland way, way down to brooklyn - bedford-stuyvestant specifically. yeah, it was "essential". if you know this spot (coming north off the whitestone bridge), how's that traffic? my gal drove 75 mph the whole way down and back and the cops ignored. bed-stuy used to scare me. now, at least in my daughter's area, it's a wedge of gentrification. remarkable to me. speaking of brooklyn, here's what peter luger is doing. posted by bird dog at 06:26 | comments (3) | trackbacks (0) sunday, march 22. 2020 the jesuit way book recommendation: the jesuit guide to (almost) everything: a spirituality for real life one does not need to be roman catholic to appreciate this. the jesuit guide to (almost) everything by the revered james martin, sj (my life with the saints) is a practical spiritual guidebook based on the life and teachings of st. ignatius of loyola, the founder of the society of jesus. centered around the ignatian goal of “finding god in all things,” the jesuit guide to almost everything shows us how to manage relationships, money, work, prayer, and decision-making, all while keeping a sense of humor. filled with user-friendly examples, humorous stories, and anecdotes from the heroic and inspiring lives of jesuit saints and average priests and brothers... posted by the barrister in religion at 16:06 | comments (17) | trackbacks (0) (page 1 of 1297, totaling 32417 entries) » next page a chris southern consulting website.