/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss mark frauenfelder / 10:42 am fri president bolsonaro boasts that brazilians can bathe in excrement and not get sick brazil’s president jair bolsonaro boasted that his citizens are immune to the coronavirus because they have the magical ability to wallow in human waste “and nothing happens,” reports the guardian. “they never catch anything. you see some bloke jumping into the sewage, he gets out, has a dive, right? and nothing happens to him,” he told reporters. unfortunately, bolsonaro's magical thinking appears to be immune to the wily virus: on thursday brazil’s health ministry said that its coronavirus death toll had risen to 77, up from 46 on tuesday. so far 2,915 cases have been confirmed. a report in the folha de são paulo, a leading brazilian broadsheet, suggested there had been a “vertiginous” rise in the number of people being admitted to hospital with severe respiratory failure since late february when the covid-19 case was detected. image: by marcelo camargo/agência brasil - http://agenciabrasil.ebc.com.br/politica/foto/2014-02/congresso-promulga-emenda-constitucional-77?id=78867, cc by 3.0 br, link read the rest share / tweet / comments brazil / magical thinking mark frauenfelder / 8:35 am tue, oct 3, 2017 thoughts and prayers the object of this retro arcade game, called thoughts and prayers is to send and many thoughts and prayers as you can in order to stop mass shootings before the timer runs out. play it it and post your score in the comments. read the rest share / tweet / 37 comments magical thinking carla sinclair / 9:05 am fri, sep 1, 2017 texas secretary of state turns down blankets, beds and more harvey donations, asks for prayers instead on tuesday, quebec's minister of international relations, christine st. pierre, offered to donate blankets, pillows, beds, hygienic products and manpower to the survivors of hurricane harvey. she spoke with texas secretary of state rolando pablos, who was touched that she called him, but he turned down the offer. he preferred that she send him prayers. with hurricane harvey being the one of the biggest storm disasters in recent us history, perhaps prayers and supplies would be a better decision. or, as commentator paul begala tweeted, "this moron doesn't understand that those blankets and other donations are the answers to prayers." this moron doesn't understand that those blankets and other donations are the answers to prayers. https://t.co/dls7jxfxmz — paul begala (@paulbegala) september 1, 2017 more details at cbcnews. image: sostx read the rest share / tweet / 84 comments magical thinking read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support