skip to content mailvaltar mmorpgs and other stuff menu home scroll down to content posts posted on 25. march 202025. march 2020 and thus blaugust becomes blapril with many of us glued to our seats (or at least our homes) due to the impending end of the world that little sucker of a virus that surely won’t manage to do what bubonic plague, cholera and nickelback couldn’t, tales of the aggronaut‘s belghast, host of the annual blogging initiative known as blaugust, had a great idea: push this year’s event forward to april so we all have something to do and to look forward to. of course it wouldn’t make much sense to still call it blaugust, so we get… the logo says it all, really. it’s a great idea, and of course i’ve signed up to participate again. thanks for having us, bel! while the event’s premise is to post every day for a full month i don’t think i’ll aim quite that high though. i managed to do it in 2018, but it was pretty stressful at times and i’d rather write when i feel like it, not because i ‘have’ to do it. on the other hand, i have been a bit lazy of late, so i guess a little extra incentive won’t hurt. if you’d like to participate or just know more about it, you can find everything you need here. and let’s always remember: posted on 24. march 202027. march 2020 do you feel lucky, tenno? this badass-looking gal is mesa prime, my very first self-farmed and -built prime frame. yep, i’m indeed back to warframe. the release of archeage unchained in october pulled me away for a while, but a couple weeks ago i started to feel the urge for more action and a faster pace in my gaming diet again, so here we are. i’m still playing archeage though, as well as eve online. it seems like i’ve finally given up on finding the one game to devote every bit of my gaming time to for long stretches, and i’m slowly starting to realize that that’s actually a good thing. i don’t miss out on quite so many great games that way, it keeps things fresh and prevents burning out on any one game (which happened to me more than once in the past). i think i actually was relatively close to burning out on warframe before i took that break, mainly because i’d hit a brick wall of difficulty that i seemingly couldn’t get past. yet in the relatively short time i’ve been playing again i’ve progressed so much in so many ways that it’s kind of hard to fathom what kept me from doing so before. kill lephantis (aka whatanuglysonofamother): check! maybe the hiatus has helped me get a fresh perspective on things, because i changed my approach to play the game in two ways without really thinking about it. one, i’m way less reluctant to spend my resources. for example, there are so many different mods in warframe that you can’t possibly rank them all up to the maximum right away, so you have to prioritize. whenever i have difficulties to make such a decision i often choose not to decide at all because i’m afraid i might regret it later. hence i was playing with sub-par mods while having about 25k endo lying around unused for quite a while, which obviously held me back power-wise. i’ve now spent a good chunk of that and things look vastly different. finally build an archwing launcher: check! two, i use co-op matchmaking more often. the first time i played with a group last year was a quite surreal experience. those other players seemed to be playing a wholly different game than me. they were moving so fast and all mobs dropped dead instantly, before i even knew what was going on the ui informed me that the mission was done and three other players were already waiting for me at the extraction point. what the heck? i very much like to play at my own pace, and i certainly don’t like the feeling of being carried, so i chose to play mainly solo from then on. save for some exceptions the game’s much easier with a group though, and now that i’ve amped up my gear and have some more experience i can group up without feeling like the proverbial fifth wheel anymore. well, sometimes anyway. build a drydock and start reconstructing an old railjack: check! which brings me back to mesa prime. not long ago getting my hands on any kind of prime equipment through normal gameplay seemed very unrealistic to me. the necessary blueprints for a prime item – usually three for its sub-components and one for the finished thing – have to be farmed via the relic system, meaning that you have to repeatedly run relatively high level missions for at least one or two of them. not only is this much easier with a group, you can even choose between your own relic’s reward and that of any one of your teammates at the end of the mission, which drastically increases the chances of getting something good. so after i’d run a bunch of those with the group finder’s help i took stock of my spoils and noticed that i already had three out of four blueprints for mesa prime. of course i immediately consulted the game’s excellent wiki about from which relic to get the last one and concentrated my efforts on that. i ran out of the relic in question without getting the blueprint, but fortunately a couple of runs later another random team member used that same relic and hit the jackpot. it’s always those damn argon crystals that are missing… so i built the components, then the frame itself. i even coughed up some platinum to cut down the last step’s 72 hours-long waiting period because i couldn’t wait to try her out. and try her out i did. her gunslinger-like looks aren’t deceiving as she’s all about shooting at stuff with pistols, and she’s faster than her own shadow indeed. her passive increases her fire rate while dual-wielding two pistols or her reload speed when using a single one. her active abilities all fit the theme one way or another as well. ability 1 sounds good for killing especially tanky monsters or bosses. in practice i don’t feel it’s necessary though, and i’d rather spend my energy for the other three. 2 and 3 are both really great, and i try to have them running at all times. a permanent damage boost and near-invincibility against ranged attacks? i’ll take it! to accommodate for that i have modded her for as much additional ability duration as i can. (shooting gallery’s description doesn’t actually say that the damage boost also applies to myself, but the wiki and several guides insist that it does) as with most frames ability number 4 is basically her ‘ultimate’, and boy does it feel like one. when you activate peacemaker she holsters all other weapons, pulls out her regulator prime pistols and basically becomes a stationary gun turret. it looks a bit like mccree’s deadeye (an overwatch hero’s ultimate), but instead of firing only one bullet at each target you can hold down the left mouse button and spew an endless stream of lead. it’s basically equilibrium’s gun kata on steroids no need to reload, no need to cool off, she just keeps on shooting as long as there’s stuff to hit and her energy doesn’t run out. she mows down everything in sight in no time though, so i never ran into that problem until now. although she uses her regulator pistols only in conjunction with peacemaker they are a distinct weapon that can (and should) be modded independently, which is where some of my excess endo went. now i need to use some forma on them for additional capacity she’s really fun to play and also quite strong. when i feel dishing out lots of damage at range would be beneficial for a specific mission i know which frame i’ll choose from now on. so that’s where i’m at right now. there’s so much to do in warframe and so many different ways to play, it’s astounding. i’ll take my time and just enjoy the ride though. that being said, we’ll have a week and a half off starting next monday and would have made a trip to iceland, had covid-19 not drastically changed our (and everyone else’s) plans. so i see a lot of additional time for playing games on the horizon. always look on the bright side of life, right? posted on 16. march 202016. march 2020 cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs last week i made the case that it’s absolutely possible to include open pvp in an mmorpg without it necessarily becoming a paradise for the wolves and a nightmare for the sheep. today i’d like to follow up with the reason to include it in the first place. why should a game allow players to attack one another without both parties’ consent when it just could, you know, not allow it instead? when i look back upon 35 years of playing video games my personal answer to that is quite clear: the most elaborate quest, the trickiest of puzzles, the most complicated boss-mechanic – none of this could ever be as unpredictable, exciting and memorable as interactions between human beings in an open, unscripted environment. note that i said interactions, not combat. in fact some of the memories i’ll share with you today don’t involve players killing each other at all, or at the very least not out of malice. let’s face it though, at their heart most mmorpgs are mainly about combat. even with those that have great housing, gathering, crafting, all that kind of stuff, i’d wager that the majority of players spend at least 80% of their time fighting something or someone (travel time excluded). it’s no surprise, then, that in order to let players interact in non-cooperative ways combat comes to mind rather naturally. anyway, here they come, my fond memories of mmorp-gaming moments made possible by open pvp rulesets. he also serves who only stands and waits not only was ultima online my first mmorpg, it was also the first (and last) time i joined a roleplay-focused guild. we were the guard of yew, tasked with protecting the eponymous little town. the first rp-event i was part of was centered around a guy who’d done something bad and thus had to be hunted. somehow i was the one who found and caught up to him. so what did i do to make sure he didn’t escape? well, i gave him a good walloping with my mace of course. he didn’t wear any armor though and dropped dead from the second hit. errr…about eleven, sir! it was then explained to me that i wasn’t supposed to do that. instead i should have acted out the process of catching him with emotes. oopsie… fortunately nobody was mad at me, actually we all had quite a laugh about it. someone even made a comment along the lines of that they now knew whom to call whenever real bad guys show up. another time i was standing around in one of the game’s cities when i got an on-screen message that someone had just stolen an item from me. when i looked back to my avatar i noticed a player running away from my position whom i hadn’t noticed before, so i figured it must be the dirty thief. i gave chase, intent to teach the guy some manners. only that when i tried to hit him i found my character angrily shaking his fists instead – for it was my axe that he’d stolen! dumbfounded, i stopped running after him and just stood there for a moment, watching him sprint out of sight, probably off into the sunset with his shiny new axe. then i started laughing and couldn’t stop for quite some time. the axe wasn’t overly valuable anyway, and i found imagining someone steal such a huge hunk of metal from me, right out of my hands no less, just hilarious. many years later i was playing archeage unchained, minding my business in two crowns, our family’s eternally peaceful home region, when a haranyan player crossed my path. he wasn’t running or trying to hide, he seemed to be strolling about without a care in the world. this was strange because only residents of the respective continent are safe in these regions. enemies of the state, in our case haranyans and pirates, can be attacked at any time (and only then fight back). either he didn’t know that or he didn’t care. anyway, i don’t have the habit of killing players of much lower level than myself, but i knew that if he kept prancing around in the open like that someone else would do so sooner rather than later. i didn’t assume that he’d bothered to learn the nuian language before coming here, so i couldn’t warn him verbally. instead i fired one shot at him, which took about a third of his health, and then ran a bit back and forth to indicate that he should get a move on. he just stood there, obviously not quite knowing what to do. then…he actually fired a couple of shots back at me! due to level- and gear-disparity i took next to no damage, but i somehow felt that he hadn’t gotten the message. i fired another two quick shots, taking his health down to almost nothing, and resumed to just stare at him. then he spawned his mount and ran away full speed ahead. i don’t know what became of him, but i hope he learned the lessons that a) when you visit the enemy continent you’ll want to be a bit more stealthy about it, and b) not every player will outright kill you when given the chance. one time our daily hiram-raid’s leader sneakily opened a portal to hellswamp instead of our next quest-destination. before anyone had even noticed i, along with half the raid, had already jumped through and was quite puzzled by our new surroundings. as it turned out some of our leader’s guildies had been transporting trade packs during war and were now under attack by a small group of haranyans. he asked us to follow him and help his mates, which we did. some players were a bit miffed by being utilized like that (because clearly no one’s got time for their dailies taking five minutes longer than usual, amirite?), but it seemed to me that the majority was quite happy about the diversion. i wish i could have seen the haranyan player’s faces. there were about half a dozen of them, and only two or three defenders, when all of a sudden our raid of at least fourty came crashing over the wannabe tradepack-thieves like a tidal wave. once the last farm wagon was safe we finished our dailies, but i for one would gladly interrupt or outright cancel such mundane tasks for rescue missions like this one at any time. today’s final example is about having ‘bad guys’ get a taste of their own medicine. merl and i were farming mobs for their coinpurses in western hiram mountains. we deliberately did so while the region was at war to get the bonus to loot drop chances. fortunately i’m always trying to be aware of my surroundings in situations like these because i noticed two red players advance on us just in time to brace for the attack. their intentions were very clear, so i just called “reds, reds!!” on teamspeak and immediately opened fire on the one who was already in range. everything happened so fast, i have no idea which classes they were playing and how high their gearscores were, but since they’d decided to attack us they’d obviously liked their chances. they were mistaken. we killed them both, with the two of us still standing. i feel no shame in admitting that it felt very good. they didn’t come back and try again either, so i guess we made our point. to be fair though, i put the term ‘bad guys’ in quotations for a reason, because i don’t really feel that way. as far as i’m concerned players of the opposing factions are fair game when a region is at war. you even get honor for those kills, so it’s not only tolerated, but actually intended gameplay. hence i don’t blame those two players for attacking us. that doesn’t mean that it wasn’t extremely satisfying to kill them though. i could tell you about plenty more cool experiences i’ve had in games with open-pvp rulesets – some i’ve already talked about in the past, like this one in eve for example – but i think these are enough to showcase the kind of exciting events i’m talking about when i say that allowing aggressive interactions between players adds value to the overall mmorpg-gameplay. for me at least. posted on 10. march 202010. march 2020 designing good mmo-pvp is hard – but not impossible there’s been a lot of fuss about amazon’s new world lately, specifically regarding the quite radical changes to its pvp-design. originally planned as a free-for-all open pvp title, players will now be able to fight each other in “opt-in faction conflict and territory wars” only…or will they? what bugs me personally about the ensuing discussions – if we can actually call them that, quite often it’s more like shouting and screaming at one another – is that the vast majority of players seems to be rooted firmly in one of two extremist camps, with absolutely no room for some middle ground. camp number one is mostly comprised of the hardcore pvp folks who wanted their big budget ffa-slugfest so bad. the gankers and griefers, as it were. look, i am a fan of pvp and really hate it when all pvpers are painted with the same brush, but i’m not blind or stupid and know full well that this kind of player exists. their dream-mmorpg would be all but unplayable for everybody else. history has proven as much. the other camp is home to people who are like “if a game has any kind of non-consensual pvp i’m not touching it, period. don’t wanna know anything about it, don’t care, lalala, i’m not listening!”. both camps seem to be totally convinced that finding a middle ground can’t, or worse, shouldn’t be done. well, i beg to differ. in my opinion there are some mmorpgs out there that manage to not only provide open pvp for those who like it, but also give incentives for and meaning to said pvp without actually forcing anyone to participate in it. is any of those games perfect? no, because nothing ever is, but they prove that designing good and meaningful pvp can be done without the game in question automatically becoming a “gankbox”. i hate that term, by the way, ever since camp number two has decided to throw it around like candy whenever an upcoming game plans to have any kind of open pvp. i’ll use archeage as an example here because – again, in my opinion – its pvp aspects and how those are integrated into the game’s design as a whole are pretty well thought out. as a consequence there’s something here for everyone, and no one has to do stuff they don’t like, despite the different game systems’ various interdependencies. gliding into action – voluntarily first of all, the game’s population is divided into two warring factions, with the option to switch to a third – the dastardly pirates – later on if you so desire. the two main factions each have their own home continent, seperated by the sea. as i’ve talked about before a couple of regions constantly cycle through states of peace, conflict and war; everywhere else on your native land you’re absolutely safe all the time. my home continent: fifteen regions, ten of which are permanently at peace our little family empire is located in two crowns, for example, which means that when we’re tending our crops, sleeping in our beds or doing whatever we can be totally relaxed, knowing that no harm can come to us. when you do venture into a contested region – which you technically need to do only once for the quests there – you can always wait until it’s at peace. granted, doing all the quests that way might take a while, but it’s possible if you want to avoid pvp at all cost. why go there at any other time at all then, or even place your house and farms there? for one, since living in constant danger obviously isn’t for everyone those regions aren’t as crowded, and farmland is much less sought after. if you wanted a big chunk of land for yourself or your whole family early on your chances would have been much better there than anywhere else. said land can also be quite lucrative. if your cheese has aged on a farm in hellswamp or sanddeep, for example, it sells for a considerably higher price than cheese from two crowns or dewstone. since gold is extremely important and always scarce in archeage (much more so than in most other mmorpgs i’ve played) that’s nothing to sneeze at. another incentive might be gaining honor. honor is a very important currency, mostly for gear upgrading, and you gain it in big chunks for recurring events that are either centered around pvp or at least take place in contested regions, making pvp a possibility. honor is also gained by killing players of the other factions during the highest level of conflict or war. at the heart of all this is one design principle that’s often talked about, but rarely executed this well: risk versus reward. pretty much everything that offers big (or bigger) rewards in archeage involves taking a higher risk. you don’t have to take any of those risks if you don’t want to, but if you do and it works out as planned you’re rewarded accordingly. another good example of that is the acquisition of onyx archeum essences. that’s a crafting material needed for almost all kinds of advanced products. no matter what your personal playstyle and goals are, you’ll most assuredly need a couple of these at some point. the only way to “make” them is to buy a special kind of trade pack on one of the main continents and sell it on another. so you shell out 26 gold, strap the heavy pack on your back, and then what? well, you can board your clipper (or vessel of choice) and set sail. the catch is that the sea is always at war, so should you encounter other players chances are they’ll try to…umm…relieve you of your burden. nevertheless this is my method of choice, and i have yet to lose a pack in unchained. i lost one once or twice in the original game though. almost there…you don’t see me…and i’m definitely not carrying anything of value alternatively you can wait for the npc-ferry to arrive, pay another five gold for a ticket, take a seat and just enjoy the ride. that ticket makes you immune to being attacked as long as you stay on the ship, so this is a risk-free variant that’s more expensive and takes longer in return. option number three is to just buy the essences from other players on the market. fast and risk-free, but obviously the most expensive way to get them. there are many more examples for risk vs reward-based choices players can make. fish caught in the open sea is more valuable and it’s also way more labor-efficient than fishing in a lake; delivering trade packs to a contested region during war yields a bonus; mobs in all contested regions drop more loot during war; honor-bought lunagems (gear upgrades) have lower stats than the crafted versions, but are waaay less expensive. also, gaining honor can be quite fun remember, you don’t have to ever choose the riskier option. you might progress more slowly towards whatever goal you’re pursuing, yes, but you’ll get there eventually without ever giving other players the chance to attack you without your consent. me? above all i love to have that choice, and which path i take may well vary from one day to the next, depending on my mood. more often than not i’ll choose the high-risk, high-reward option though, not because i love to gank or get ganked but because it keeps the gameplay exciting and fun for me. i’d like to give you some examples of such exciting situations i’ve found myself in, but this is already getting long, so i’ll save those for another time. of course, as with any game out there, different people say different things about archeage. some call it a gankbox (bleh) while others claim its pvp is meaningless, nonexistent or both. as far as i’m concerned those people seem to be playing a different game because for me it’s a (mostly) well designed sandbox that incentivises pvp in all of its forms without actually forcing you to engage in it. so…if xl games can do it, why should amazon game studios not be able to? the question is, can they manage to radically redesign new world in the time they have left? probably not. at least they’re going for a three-faction system now, which is likely better than what they had before. well, i guess we’ll know soon enough. posted on 25. february 202026. february 2020 driving, fishing and shooting in archeage a couple of weeks ago our gamigo overlords decided to start giving out some gifts in archeage unchained on a regular basis. i don’t know if that’s a sign of reclining mau-numbers or something, but i’ll take it regardless. things started off with a different kind of labor potion, claimable daily, and a 15-day trial version of the redwood roadster, a pretty expensive to build steampunk-style car, claimable once per account. a ferrari it ain’t, but it sure beats riding an oversized owl… the car’s nifty, i’ll give it that. it definitely comes in handy when you have only a single trade pack to carry because it’s a hell of a lot faster than the poor donkey. it can even carry two more in the trunk to boot. i don’t think i’ll go for building one now that the trial version has expired though, it’s just too expensive for what it offers. the second round of gifts has daily loot drop rate potions and a 15-day predator longliner in store for us, a really great fishing boat. you can still get it until the 27th. i didn’t want to let this opportunity go unused, so i suggested to gather the family, claim the ships and try ourselves at high-sea fishing. “a trip by sea, what fun it can be”, as a german song once said unfortunately things didn’t start off too well. we’d just delivered a bunch of cargo packs to austera and i was like, well, let’s set sail right here and look for a fishing spot. poor choice, that. we’d just stored the first few fish in the tank when a red galleon came into sight, bearing right at us blazingly fast. there was just enough time to swap out my fishing rod for real weapons, then the galleon crashed into our boat with full force, hurtling us off its deck. we took quite a lot of damage from the collision too and were scattered all over the place, so our chances of fighting those pirates off were next to zero, even if they hadn’t outnumbered and outgeared us. we managed to take one of them down with us, but soon we were all standing at the nearest respawn, our fish lost and my boat heavily damaged. i will say this though, despite us basically getting ganked it was still a rather cool experience. seeing that galleon coming at us like that was pretty epic. anyway, we don’t give up that easily, so we did what we should have done from the start: we ported home and set sail due south-west, pretty much as far away from haranya as possible. this was when the fun – and profit – began. cast yer rods, landlubbers, those fishies ain’t gonna catch themselves we found a far-off fishing spot, used the chum salmon lakisa’d made and went to work. sometimes a fish would bug out and just swim away, but the four of us still managed to fill up the ship’s fish tank pretty quickly, as there’s only room for five small or medium sized fish in there. additionally the boat sports two crane hooks for gargantuan specimen we made the trip to the nearest turn-in point and sold the fish for a nice sum of gold, then made our way back to the still active spot. once it was expired we moved on to the next, and so on. we had some big laughs too, for example when we caught our first gargantuan pufferfish… how i was able to climb a ladder with that on my back i have no idea after our second trip with no other player in sight we got bolder. once the first boat was full we spawned a second and filled that up as well before returning and selling our haul. on our way back once more, both boats fully loaded the gold kept piling up and we were giggling every time a haul yielded even more than the previous ones. we were still at it when the sun set. in the end we’d earned so much that the initial setback was paid for many, many times over and was all but forgotten. we did a second session a couple of days later as a group of three, as tristron wasn’t available, which was just as lucrative. this time around a handful of other fishermen were also out and about, all fellow nuians, which made the spots a little more crowded, but also a lot safer. we’ll most definitely do a couple more runs before the boats expire, and there have already been talks about if/when we’re going to build our own, permanent ones. i for one am all for it. i really like these time-limited gifts as they give players an opportunity to try out those expensive toys in a realistic environment and thus help them decide which one, if any, they want to aim for. now, what to do with all that gold we earned? for me it wasn’t really a question as i was right in the middle of getting my bow to the next grade. i’d finally succeeded in awakening it to tier four about a week ago – after seven failed attempts, dang it – and was now eager to get it to legendary grade. no way in hell would i’ve gotten this far with the old system this gave another substantial boost to my damage output, which, considering that archers in this game are pretty much glass cannons, is by far my most important stat. so, yay! on the flip side, it looks a bit…umm…girly now…? don’t run, this is just a fancy looking bunch of flowers. no, seriously! i guess i’ll have to go for mythic grade sooner rather than later… posted on 13. february 202013. february 2020 nothing lasts forever in new eden i’ve been pretty busy in eve online since i’ve joined blank space and thus rejoined ncdot. due to panfam’s running campaign against dead coalition there are fleets going up around the clock. as far as i can tell our goal here is to wipe darkness and co – still referred to as gotg most of the time – off the map for good. old grudges and all that. look, politics in eve are complicated. right now they aren’t resisting much, if at all. we’re clearing tenal off their structures pretty much uncontested, and they reportedly also abandoned branch already. one of our muninn-fleets advancing on enemy space fortunately goon-led imperium wanted to get in on the action and deployed to the north about two weeks ago, so in addition to shooting defenseless structures real fights are also happening. one of those occurred when we attacked a dead coalition infrastructure hub (ihub) in deklein the other day. to no one’s surprise we took a few titan bridges to get there faster. this ragnarok was waiting inside a good old pos for us. the swarm of tiny specks approaching the titan is our fleet i wouldn’t have thought to ever see a pos again, what with ccp planning to take them out of the game for years now. but there it was, its shields protecting the titan from any harm. oh yeah, and also bumping out the pandemic legion guys whom to tell the pos-password no one had bothered. some things just never change. after that we arrived in deklein without further incidents, and the “toasting”, i.e. capturing of command nodes in order to destroy the ihub, began. some of the region’s actual owners did show up, but for the most part defending forces were composed of imperium pilots. test alliance please ignore (test) were also present, to my surprise fighting on our side. i never seem to be able to track when they’re allied with goons, and when they’re fighting them. like i said, eve politics are complicated. anyway, for quite a while the fight was looking good for us and node after node was captured. a test apostle was dropped by a trio of dreads and killed, but we destroyed all three of them in return, tilting that exchange heavily in our favour too. a revelation’s remains floating in space, some fires still burning we were almost finished with our task when a squadron of imperium stealth bombers hit our fleet with a very well executed bombing run. within a couple of seconds we lost over twenty muninns and half a dozen logis. ouch! of course muninns, like all heavy assault cruisers, are able to heavily boost their resistances for a short while at the touch of a button, but the “bombs!! bombs!!”-warning in voicechat came a wee bit late and not everyone, myself unfortunately included, noticed the bombs in time. welp. most of the bombers died in return, nevertheless this one really good move of theirs tilted the battle report nicely in their favour isk-wise. still, we destroyed the ihub, so our tactical objective was accomplished. after that our fleet went home the long way. lakisa and i, having both lost our ships, had the luxury to just self-destruct our pods and wake up in our home station instantly. one should enjoy the little things, right? on second thought, maybe “enjoy” isn’t quite the right word for it on the next day yet another first awaited me, as well as the reason for this post’s header. a ping for a structure shoot went out, and since i had some time left before i had to leave for work i figured i’d tag along. the fc called for feroxes, and once everything was sorted we left with a fleet just shy of 80 people. a small fleet by our standards, but not bad for around 14:00 eve-time on a weekday. no one came to defend the structure anyway, which turned out to be a faction fortizar on its final timer. which, to be honest, made me a bit sad. faction fortizars came into being when ccp converted all old, player-built outposts into citadels in 2018. the ramifications of that conversion were manifold, but for me personally the biggest consequence by far was that these outposts lost their status of eternal existence due to it. the old outposts, once built, were immovable and indestructible. they could change hands – voluntarily or by force – but they wouldn’t go away. i was around when those outposts were still a huge undertaking to build and thus pretty rare, a long time ago, and i also contributed to some of them being paid for and deployed in a couple of ways, so i always had somewhat of a soft spot for them. for the most part the faction fortizars even look like the outposts they once were, and the four different types wear the names players gave the first outpost of the corresponding type ever built. the administrative fortizar, for example, is called ‘marginis’ after the first such outpost, constructed by the interstellar starbase syndicate in 2005. i used to live in that outpost for months! fortunately this one was a ‘draccous’ manufacturing fortizar, which doesn’t have quite as big of a nostalgia factor for me. still, seeing it blow up hammered home the fact that, indeed, nothing lasts forever in new eden. another remnant of eve’s past…gone i really need to pay kdf-gy a visit and see whether the og ‘marginis’ fortizar is still there one of these days… posted on 10. february 202011. february 2020 eve online – out of nullsec, back to nullsec when holy cookie joined northern coalition and moved to nullsec in may of last year we all knew what we were getting ourselves into – or so i thought. despite having talked about life in a nullsec-alliance extensively before the move, quite a few corp members were less than thrilled about the goings-on within our new organisation rather soon. some people left the corp, others remained on paper but mostly minded their own business when online. just over three months in, corp leadership realized that something had to be done and a voice-meeting was scheduled to talk things over. attendance was quite good, most of the remaining active players were there. we discussed our options for like two hours, the conclusion being that the majority wanted to stay in ncdot while also trying to do more stuff as a corp again. sounded like a plan. about two weeks later a message from our ceo suddenly informed us that we were going to leave the alliance, with cyno chains for getting our assets out of nullsec going up pretty much immediately. our clear, almost unanimous vote to the contrary during our meeting wasn’t even mentioned. we also weren’t allowed to talk to anyone outside of our corp about it. lakisa and i were flabbergasted. we didn’t want to leave ncdot, and with a bit more time to think things through we’d probably tried to seek refuge in one of the alliance’s other corps right away. with the clock ticking and no means to get our stuff back to empire space on our own – not least thanks to ccps godawful changes to cynos mere days before – we jumped on the train and moved along back to our old stomping grounds in black rise. the move itself wasn’t great either, what with the short notice and timeframes mainly dictated by gatecamps in certain systems being or not being active, and by the time we’d arrived in kehjari i was seriously pissed off at our leadership about the whole thing. corp members tried to help each other out as much as possible, and i believe everyone got all their stuff out eventually, but it was a shitty experience and i absolutely wasn’t in the mood to carry on as if we’d never left lowsec at all. so i just didn’t log in anymore. i canceled my second account’s sub – “cyno changes suck, chaos era sucks!” were the reasons i gave ccp in their why-are-you-leaving-us questionnaire in hopes someone actually reads that stuff – and left my main running only to train some more skills for the time being. lakisa wasn’t as mad as i was, but she didn’t want to be a lowsec pirate anymore either, so she reached out to one of the nice folks we met at eve berlin who happens to be a director in blank space, a corp belonging to ncdot. she was accepted to their ranks right away, moved back to nullsec and has had a lot of fun since. of course she repeatedly tried to talk me into joining black space too, and she had a lot of goods things to say about the corp and its members. so two weeks ago i finally decided that i’d had long enough of a break and applied for membership, which was accepted last week. yay! i said my goodbyes to the cookies, some of whom i’ll definitely miss, and made my way into the cold emptiness of nullsec again. fortunately one of our old corpmates agreed to buy all assets i had left in kehjari, including my carrier, saving me the hassle to schlep that stuff along. thanks mate! a travel-fit interceptor and a padded wallet was all i took with me. after all i knew from experience that i’d be able to buy everything i’d need at our current staging. the timing couldn’t have been better because just two days later i got onto my very first keepstar killmail. unfortunately its owners didn’t show up to defend – they’d already retreated to branch by that point and are falling back even more as i type this – so it wasn’t much of a fight, more like a test of our tidi-management skills. still, a first for me. i killed this keepstar! along with over two thousand other pilots, that is there’s much going on at the moment, pretty much all the time, and it’s great. last friday held not one, but another two firsts for me. in preparation for an op to hunt ratters and miners in the heart of goon-space i made my way to thera – the capital system of wormhole space, if you will – by myself, which marked the first time that i had to scan for wormhole entrances without help. not that it’s really hard, but it takes a bit getting used to. following that the op itself yielded a supercarrier kill, which was my first too. a hel, going down from concentrated bomber and dreadnought fire unfortunately two of the dreads we dropped in order to kill our target quickly enough had to stay on the field and die, but that still was a good tradeoff for us. after that seemingly every ratter and miner in all of delve docked up to be safe from us, so there weren’t any more kills to be had. considering how much isk and minerals they would have generated, had they been in space instead of hiding during our presence, even that has to count as a win for our side though. even more stuff has happened since then, but i’ll save that for another time. suffice it to say, being back in nullsec rocks and i couldn’t be happier to have taken that step. also, last week’s events prove that eve is a game that, even after more than 14 years, can still offer me new experiences. can’t ask for any more than that, really. posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 25 next page search for: search recent posts and thus blaugust becomes blapril do you feel lucky, tenno? cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs designing good mmo-pvp is hard – but not impossible driving, fishing and shooting in archeage nothing lasts forever in new eden eve online – out of nullsec, back to nullsec there goes the neighborhood ggoat: vampire: the masquerade – bloodlines what i’m looking forward to in 2020 tags american football apb reloaded archeage archeage unchained arpgs black desert blaugust blaugustreborn blogging destiny 2 diablo ii eve online everquest ii ffxiv intpipomo memorable moments mmorpgs music overwatch path of exile star wars galaxies swtor the secret world ultima online warframe recent comments pkudude99 on do you feel lucky, tenno? mailvaltar on do you feel lucky, tenno? pkudude99 on do you feel lucky, tenno? mailvaltar on do you feel lucky, tenno? pkudude99 on do you feel lucky, tenno? no place for old pvpers – time to loot on cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs mailvaltar on cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs telwyn on cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs bhagpuss on cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs mailvaltar on cool stuff that just doesn’t happen in ‘safe’ mmorpgs blogroll a bunch of words aywren sojourner backlog crusader battle stance bio break cheap boss attack contains moderate peril cracked endgame viable eve news 24 evehermit going commando hardcore casual i has pc in an age inner sanctum of the ninveah inventory full jvt workshop kaylriene leo's life massively op me vs myself and i mmobro shadowz abstract gaming blog shards of imagination superior realities tales from the backlog tales of the aggronaut the ancient gaming noob the mmoist the nosy gamer time to loot tobold's blog unidentified signal source why i game archive march 2020 (4) february 2020 (3) january 2020 (4) december 2019 (3) november 2019 (6) october 2019 (5) september 2019 (4) august 2019 (15) july 2019 (5) june 2019 (3) may 2019 (4) april 2019 (4) march 2019 (4) february 2019 (4) january 2019 (4) december 2018 (5) november 2018 (8) october 2018 (6) september 2018 (3) august 2018 (31) july 2018 (7) june 2018 (3) may 2018 (1) april 2018 (1) march 2018 (3) february 2018 (4) january 2018 (8) december 2017 (3) november 2017 (2) october 2017 (1) august 2017 (6) july 2017 (1) june 2017 (4) blog at wordpress.com. mailvaltar blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy