skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / articles / maintaining performance author chris coyier comments go to comments published mar 27, 2020 font loading performance personalized marketing with mailchimp real talk from dave: i, dave rupert, a person who cares about web performance, a person who reads web performance blogs, a person who spends lots of hours trying to keep up on best practices, a person who co-hosts a weekly podcast about making websites and speak with web performance professionals… somehow goofed and added 33 seconds to their page load. this stuff is hard even when you care a lot. the 33 seconds came from font preloading rather than the one-line wonder of font-display. i also care about making fast websites, but mine aren't winning any speed awards because i'll take practical and maintainable over peak performance any day. (sorry, world) direct link → our learning partner need to learn about javascript web performance? frontend masters has a course all about javascript performance from steve kinney. it gets into optimizing render performance, splitting resources, and loading everything faster. need to learn about javascript web performance? frontend masters has a course all about javascript performance from steve kinney. it gets into optimizing render performance, splitting resources, and loading everything faster. this comment thread is closed. if you have important information to share, please contact us. related how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers