skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about 15 places to sell your story to newspapers and magazines for cash by naomi willis | last updated 12th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links sell your story to newspapers and magazines for cash. you may think your story is boring, but that doesn’t stop papers paying you for it. when it comes to making some extra money, all the usual things get recommended like doing online surveys, selling stuff on ebay/facebook/gumtree, switching your energy bills and using cashback. but… more earn up to £50 off your bills by taking photos of receipts by naomi willis | last updated 6th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links take photos of your receipts and get up to £50 off your water, gas or electric utility bills or council tax each month with the zipzero app. each time you go shopping – whether it’s to grab a top-up of milk and bread, you’re buying essential stuff for the kids, or treating yourself to a… more earn £2 trading in your socks at game by naomi willis | last updated 9th january 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links did you get socks for christmas? didn’t need another pair? why not cash in with your socks and trade them in at game – earning £2 store credit a pair!! trade in your socks forget ebay, don’t even think about going near gumtree or facebook marketplace! game is now your port of call to get… more 19+ ways to easily earn free amazon gift cards by naomi willis | last updated 13th january 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links amazon is like woolworths of the online world (just touching wood it doesn’t shut down!) what i mean is that you can buy pretty much anything and everything, at a pretty decent price to be delivered the same day (in some cases!) even though it’s great, you’ve still got to spend your money if you… more the best paid survey sites to earn money in 2020 (£200+ per month) by ricky willis | last updated 13th january 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links entering paid surveys online isn’t a get rich quick scheme, but if you have time you can still make a decent amount of money (£200+) every month. best paid survey sites if you find the right online paid survey sites, they are a totally legitimate way to boost your earnings without leaving the comfort of… more instars review – how to earn instar crypto by naomi willis | last updated 11th december 2019 | this post may contain affiliate links you can now earn instar cryptocurrency simply by taking photos of your receipts, and completing short surveys and polls. plus win tokens and bonuses. written in collaboration with instars.com what is instars? instar is a new digital currency – a cryptocurrency. it was created was to help keep our data under more control. some companies… more 1 2 3 … 18 next page » contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about