making sense of cents learn how to make extra money, how to save money, how to start a blog, and more. join over 300,000 monthly readers! home blog about categories save money side job ideas blogging tips budget tips career advice college pay off debt extra income my life minimalism pet-related real estate help retirement product reviews self-employment tips travel rv life how to get a cruise for cheap or even free! wedding how to start a blog free fb group recommendations contact contact advertise blog/website coaching services how to save money make extra money blogging courses affiliate marketing course making sense of sponsored posts travel subscribe to get posts directly in your inbox! first name e-mail address as seen on latest posts how i make $1,500 a month as a podcast virtual assistant… hello! today, i have a great guest post from melanie. she started a business as a podcast virtual assistant and talks about how you can too. you can download her free workbook - podcast vas: what ... continue reading... 10 slow cooker recipes that will make dinner time easy… are you looking for some new and delicious slow cooker recipes so you can have tasty and stress-free dinners this week? i love making meals in a slow cooker. dinners are so much easier when ... continue reading... 15 of my best working from home tips so you can succeed… do you need some working from home tips to make it easier to transition to remote work? more and more people are starting to work from home or are becoming location independent and traveling ... continue reading... how to become a proofreader and work from anywhere… do you want to learn how to become a proofreader? if you’re interested in making extra money and you want to be able to to work from anywhere, working as a proofreader is a great way to start ... continue reading... subscribe via email home contact popular posts how to make money blogging how to start a blog tutorial i paid $40k in student loans by 24 75 ways to make extra money privacy policy terms of use disclaimer / earnings disclaimer copyright © 2011 - 2020. all rights reserved. © 2020 making sense of cents design by swoon & co. creative