the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news in brief man reflects on cyclical nature of existence after learning mcdonald’s has stopped offering all-day breakfast once again you may also like local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm local unpatriotic whiner demands ventilator yesterday 11:44am local british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system yesterday 9:52am more from g/o media read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on u.n. names finland happiest country for third year in a row subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe yesterday 2:12pm • see more: dining diningfoodnewsvol 56 issue 12 joplin, mo—overcome with a sense of spiritual profundity in response to the astonishing announcement, local man edward trask reportedly reflected on the cyclical nature of existence thursday after learning fast-food giant mcdonald’s would once more stop serving breakfast all day long. “though things around us may project an illusion of permanence, the universe has suddenly reminded us that even our ability to order a bacon, egg, and cheese mcgriddle at 4 p.m. is finite, and that we are all destined, yet again, to end where we began: with no around-the-clock drive-thru access to breakfast sandwiches,” said trask who appeared to grow pensive as he stared into the distance and discussed the nonlinear, paradoxical order within the chaos of our ever-fluctuating reality. “i know that hotcakes and hash browns will return someday outside the traditional hours of the morning meal, just as the flat circle of time turns to bring life where once there was death. but for now, the cruel hands of fate have snatched away the breakfast menu from the afternoon and evening time. perhaps the recursive voyage of the sausage biscuit is simply an expression of joseph campbell’s concept of the hero’s journey: departing, returning, departing again—such is life.” at press time, reports confirmed trask was in a dairy queen parking lot meditating on the duality of mind and body after learning the mint oreo blizzard would only be the blizzard of the month a few more days. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion 8 insanely cute child soldiers thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors how the 1% are responding to coronavirus department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic share tweet