login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit i can has cheezburger? favorite man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos we're all pretty much stuck indoors these days... but what if you absolutely must have those delicious cheesy puffs of perfection, even during a global scale outbreak? we've all been there, we all know just how magical cheetos are. even though hot cheetos are cleary superior. but we're not here to talk about that. one man in mexico came up with a brilliant idea that would get him his cheetos without stepping foot outside. posted by ameatball share tweet stumble pin it email 1 meet antonio muñoz. currently in lockdown in his neighborhood in mexico. and like the rest of world, really love cheetos. pin it via antonio muñoz 2 so he strapped a note and some money to his adorable chihuahua in hopes that his dog will come through with the goods. pin it via antonio muñoz in english, the note translates to, "hello mr. shopkeeper. please sell my dog some cheetos, the orange kind, not the red ones, they're too hot. she has $20 attached to her collar. warning: she will bite if not treated right. your front neighbor." 3 antontio attached the note and some money to his pup's collar, and sent her on her way! thankfully, she didn't have to go far, the store was just across the street and this little pup seemed to know what she was doing. pin it via antonio muñoz 4 we can't help but wonder if antonio was a bit nervous in sending his pup out with that note and money, what if someone took that money and decided to purchase their own bag of cheetos with it? antonio had a lot of cheesy puff goodness at stake here. pin it via antonio muñoz 5 but nevertheless, this little lady is one tough cookie! not only did she run this errand for her owner -- she was totally successful! look at how proud she is holding that treasured bag! pin it via antonio muñoz a hero, really. monuments should be built in her honor. 6 antonio originally posted the story on facebook where it went viral: pin it via antonio muñoz repost - vote - recaption share tweet stumble pin it email isolation cute facebook lol chihuahua cheetos funny next on i can has cheezburger? disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals comments - click to show - click to hide upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter