skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about contactless limit to be increased to £45 by naomi willis | last updated 23rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links the contactless spending limit is increasing from £30 to £45 from 1 april 2020 to help protect consumers and speed up queues at checkout. the current contactless limit to shop without tapping your pin is currently £30, but the spending limit is increasing to £45 from 1 april 2020. you will not be able to… more what little luxuries would you cut out to save for your big goals? by naomi willis | last updated 6th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links important information: the information in this article is not a personal recommendation for any particular investment. if you are unsure about the suitability of an investment you should speak to an authorised financial adviser. please also be aware that the value of investments can go down as well as up, and so you may get… more boots advantage card payments stopped after cyber attack by naomi willis | last updated 4th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links you’re not currently able to make payments online or in store using your advantage card points at boots due to a cyber attack. hackers have gained access to email addresses and passwords of boots advantage card holders and tried to break into accounts. none of the boots systems were hacked directly, and credit card information… more coronavirus scams pretending to be from world health organization (who) by naomi willis | last updated 4th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links scammers are using the 2019 coronavirus as an excuse to steal money from people, as they are pretending to be from the world health organization. if ever a criminal can cash in it’ll be when people are panicked! it’s always worth keeping your eye open and never fully trusting phone calls or emails you receive… more tesco issuing 600,000 new clubcards after fraudulent activity by naomi willis | last updated 4th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links tesco is sending out over 600,000 new clubcards to customers after finding usernames and passwords had been stolen. new clubcards are being sent out to 640,000 customers after tesco found a security issue. tesco believes that a database of usernames and passwords had been stolen from another platform, and then the details used on their… more 19 ways to give to charity without donating money by naomi willis | last updated 26th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links if you’ve got nothing spare in your budget, but want to give to charitable causes, there are loads of ways to help others or donate to charity without spending a penny. i get a pang of guilt when there’s another fundraiser at school or a charity thing on tv, or there’s a cause i genuinely… more 1 2 3 … 31 next page » contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about