search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. mandy moore's this is us is getting two more seasons of timey-wimey family drama nbc's biggest freshman hit scores an early renewal. by justin harp 18/01/2017 20th century fox much more of the pearsons' wibbly, wobbly, timey-wimey family history is in store on this is us. nbc ordered two more seasons of its biggest freshman drama during its presentation at the television critics' association press tour earlier today (january 18). jennifer salke - nbc's entertainment president - made the big announcement: "we all got our wish that this is a hit show. this is us is as good as anything we've ever had, we're thrilled to renew it for two seasons and there's no doubt it will have a long life on nbc. "on behalf of everyone at nbc, we're grateful for the artistry of the cast, crew, and producers assembled by our gifted creator, dan fogelman. in a world where there are literally hundreds of television dramas, we're proud to have one of the very best that is also one of the highest-rated." twentieth century fox this is us stars emmy-winning people v. oj simpson: american crime story star sterling k. brown, chrissy metz and justin hartley as adult siblings each struggling with their own inner-turmoil. in a twist on the modern family sitcom, this is us is also told concurrently during the kids' childhood through the eyes of their parents (milo ventimiglia and mandy moore). just to trip us out, the golden globe-nominated series even recently aged-up mandy moore so she could play rebecca pearson in both timelines. when digital spy recently chatted with this is us creator dan fogelman, he revealed that there were originally plans to simply cast an older actress as the modern-day rebecca. 20th century fox "honestly, there was a lot of talk," he revealed. "i had promised mandy that if we didn't feel 100% confident that this was going to work and not be laughable, that we would pull the rip-chord at the last minute. "we were working on the make-up and fine-tuning it until the last week or two before shooting, so there wasn't a lot of time to make the decision. "we were starting to make casting lists, in case we had to cast quickly and shoot those scenes with an [older] actress – and then at the same time, we were fine-tuning the make-up tests and shooting them and seeing how that felt." this is us airs tuesdays at 9pm et on nbc in the us and on channel 4 in the uk. don't forget to vote for your favourite tv shows in this year's national television awards! shortlist voting closes at 12 midday on wednesday, january 25. want up-to-the-minute entertainment and tech news? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from us tv picard star is finished playing their iconic role how wwe is ensuring safety during wrestlemania 36 advertisement - continue reading below how picard's finale fixed an old star trek mistake new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now wwe's shayna baszler talks biting becky lynch picard reveals major star trek character is queer grey's fans worried about major character's fate dirty john season 2 trailer features mr robot star why duncanville isn't just another simpsons ozark season 4: everything you need to know us tv tv this is us season 2 gets a uk air date channel 4 picks up hit us drama this is us mandy moore: this is us super bowl episode has answers this is us's mandy moore teases jack's fate this is us lands the coveted post-super bowl slot 'my family' gets two more series us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising