menu toggle navigation extra toggle navigation sections browse popular categories celebrity news extreme beauty & plastic surgery health & beauty hookups and breakups mansions and millionaires movies television trending photos videos giveaways behind the scenes popular categories celebrity news extreme beauty & plastic surgery health & beauty hookups and breakups mansions and millionaires movies television trending × television january 02, 2018 mandy moore reveals big plotline for season 3 of 'this is us' getty “this is us” fans can’t wait for the midseason premiere on jan. 9, but we're already looking ahead to season 3! mandy moore, who plays rebecca pearson on the hit show, stopped by universal studios hollywood, where she opened up to “extra’s” mario lopez about what's in store. mandy revealed rebecca’s relationship with miguel, her late husband’s best friend, will be a “big focus” next season. when mario asked if viewers will come to like miguel, she replied, “absolutely,” adding, “it's hard to imagine jack without rebecca, and rebecca without jack, and that she did move on with her life. i feel like that is going to be the biggest battle of the show is getting people to become team miguel.” that means moore could be spending more time on the show as “grandma” rebecca, and a lot more time in the makeup chair. moore explained what it takes to transform her look. “it takes around three and a half to four hours, and then about an hour and change to remove it. which is the tougher part because you have a long day and everybody is like, ‘we're wrapped. great.’ and you see sterling [k. brown] and justin [hartley] and everybody take off, and that means i'm going back and i'm sitting with some hot towels wrapped around my face for an hour.” she joked, “i went to the writer's room a couple weeks ago and i was like… ‘i want to know what's happening for the rest of the season, but primarily how many more times – just a guesstimate – how much more i'm going to have to go through prosthetics!’” watch “this is us” on nbc! #mandymoore#television#trendingstories more milo ventimiglia dishes on 'this is us' season 2 cliffhanger justin hartley & chrishell stause gush about each other after their… chrissy metz opens up about her important storyline on 'this is us' comments janet jackson announces new album, “black diamond” ciara & russell wilson are expecting another bundle of joy! missy elliott & h.e.r. team up for epic pepsi super bowl commercial ellen degeneres awards deandre arnold, the texas teen who refused to cut his dreadlocks, a $20k scholarship! taraji p. henson launches natural hair care line at target around the web more in television getty celebrity news how ‘rhony’ star jill zarin’s daughter ally found out she was conceived… getty news 'pandemic's' dr. ryan mcgarry on why the coronavirus ended up being the 'big… getty remembered 'top chef masters' winner floyd cardoz dies after covid-19 diagnosis television what will arnett learned from hosting ‘lego masters’ behind the scenes with billy iliza shlesinger cooks her way through the coronavirus outbreak getty health news bachelor colton underwood diagnosed with coronavirus, describes debilitating… abc television how medical tv shows like ‘grey’s anatomy’ and ‘the resident’ are… load more now trending now trending 1 pic! blake shelton shows off his quarantine mullet as gwen stefani… 2 jon bon jovi says teen son had covid-19 symptoms, plus: how the… 3 prince harry & meghan markle secretly moved to the u.s.? where… 4 p!nk gave herself a haircut while drinking at home — see the… 5 elisabeth röhm & judge jonathan t. colby split 6 first pic! ‘glee’ actor max adler welcomes baby boy 7 report: jurnee smollett files for divorce from josiah bell 8 rhett akins welcomes baby #3 — just weeks after son thomas rhett… 9 broadway, 'desperately seeking susan' actor mark blum dies of covid-19 10 carson daly & wife siri welcome baby #4 around the web tweets by extratv the extra list fresh faced see the famous faces at gwyneth paltrow's no-makeup party gwyneth paltrow hosted a no-makeup goop dinner party for some of her famous friends, including demi moore and rachel zoe. see the… vacay vibes stars in bikinis! these stars enjoyed some fun in the sun! celebrity kids model kids with famous parents model kids with celebrity parents parties grammy after parties see who hit the grammy after parties. music inside the grammy awards the biggest moments from inside the grammy awards. red carpet grammy arrivals stars hit the red carpet at the 2020 grammys. "extra" gets you on the list! sign up here for exclusive access to all your favorite celebrities and breaking entertainment news! sign up stay connected subscribe to newsletter rss feed popular categories baby news beauty by the numbers celebs on social media couples news fashion giveaways trending stories mansions and millionaires movies plastic surgery remembered star sightings television extra about extra when it’s on partners widgets advertise with us contact us do not sell my personal information privacy policy (new) | terms of use | ad choices © 2020 telepictures productions inc. in partnership with warner bros. entertainment visit our related sites ellentube judge mathis the people's court the real tmz toofab true crime daily newsletter sign-up sign up here for exclusive access to all your favorite celebrities and breaking entertainment news! sign up about | privacy policy (new) | terms ad choices | do not sell my personal information © 2020 telepictures productions inc. in partnership with warner bros. entertainment