sign up and get a free ebook! don't miss our ebook deals starting at $0.99! categories audiobooks biography & memoir book club favorites business & economics children cooking crosswords ebook deals fiction health & wellness history mystery/detective politics romance science fiction star trek teen thrillers see all categories authors new releases bestsellers new york times® bestsellers publishers weekly bestsellers coming soon australia canada india united kingdom your account my account look manny the frenchie's art of happiness by manny the frenchie paper over board fixed layout ebook list price $15.99 price may vary by retailer buy from us table of contents rave and reviews about the book based on his popular instagram feed @manny_the_frenchie and facebook profile, this is an illustrated and humorous guide to living a happy and fulfilling life by “the most famous french bulldog in the world…who’s downright amazing” (buzzfeed.com). in 2011, manny was the runt of the litter and on his way to a shelter. but when his parents scooped him up, named him after the world famous boxer, manny pacquiao, and began posting photos of him sleeping in their sink accompanied by humorous, optimistic captions, manny went viral. whether he’s wearing sunglasses, hitting up music festivals, or sleeping in adorable costumes, this little frenchie always encourages a positive, do-gooder outlook to his followers. packed with cheeky humor, witty wisdom, and charming anecdotes, manny the frenchie’s art of happiness will satisfy dog lovers of all breeds. about the author christian chavez manny the frenchie product details publisher: gallery books (june 6, 2017) length: 160 pages isbn13: 9781501158278 browse related books humor > topic > animals photography > nature & wildlife pets > dogs > general related articles 7 fun facts about french bulldogs - tips on life & love 9 perfect novels to put you in the summer mood - get literary raves and reviews "full of tips on how to reach manny-levels of happiness and includes oodles of adorable photos to help you get there." – people.com resources and downloads high resolution images book cover image (jpg): manny the frenchie's art of happiness paper over board 9781501158278 author photo (jpg): manny the frenchie christian chavez (0.1 mb) any use of an author photo must include its respective photo credit manny the frenchie's art of happiness by manny the frenchie paper over board fixed layout ebook list price $15.99 price may vary by retailer buy from us get a free e-book by joining our mailing list today! plus, receive recommendations and exclusive offers on all of your favorite books and authors from simon & schuster. by clicking 'sign me up' i acknowledge that i have read and agree to the privacy policy and terms of use. free ebook offer available to new us subscribers only. offer redeemable at simon & schuster's ebook fulfillment partner. must redeem within 90 days. see full terms and conditions and this month's choices. . thank you for signing up, fellow book lover! tell us what you like and we'll recommend books you'll love. audiobooks book club newsletter biography & autobiography business & personal finance children christian cooking ebooks entertainment & pop culture fiction history new releases mystery politics romance science fiction self-help sports teen thriller & suspense tips on life & love see more categories your first name birth month select monthjanuary february march april may june july august september october november december zip code state select statealabama alaska arizona arkansas california colorado connecticut delaware district of columbia florida georgia hawaii idaho illinois indiana iowa kansas kentucky louisiana maine maryland massachusetts michigan minnesota mississippi missouri montana nebraska nevada new hampshire new jersey new mexico new york north carolina north dakota ohio oklahoma oregon pennsylvania rhode island south carolina south dakota tennessee texas utah vermont virginia washington west virginia wisconsin wyoming thank you! your registration is complete. close about simon & schuster corporate information divisions & imprints press releases careers international sites australia canada india united kingdom connect with simon & schuster resources for educators and librarians for booksellers & distributors distribution services simon & schuster speakers bureau archway publishing email preferences help order status return a product help/faq report piracy manuscript submissions by clicking 'sign me up' i acknowledge that i have read and agree to the privacy policy and terms of use. free ebook offer available to new us subscribers only. offer redeemable at simon & schuster's ebook fulfillment partner. must redeem within 90 days. see full terms and conditions and this month's choices. more from simon & schuster get lit(erary) history in five off the shelf pimsleur riveted star trek books tips on life & love privacy policy terms of use ca privacy/info we collect ca do not sell my info © 2020 simon & schuster, inc. all rights reserved. digital products purchased from this site are sold by simon & schuster digital sales inc.