foreign policy magazine sign in subscribe subscribe upgrade to insider upgrade to insider latest news analysis podcasts the magazine channels economics security elephants in the room shadow government her power close newsletters your fp insider access: power maps conference calls special reports search latest when home is more dangerous than the coronavirus lockdowns are leaving domestic violence victims worldwide trapped with abusers. argument | harriet williamson death by drone: america’s vicious legacy in afghanistan as the united states prepares to leave, thousands of killings remain unprobed, and washington refuses to talk about them. report | emran feroz today’s coronavirus anger can revive tomorrow’s welfare state under the right conditions, social frustration can herald the dawn of new political solidarity. argument | james traub, paul von chamier the political wizardry of benjamin netanyahu in one stroke, the israeli leader has extended his term and weakened an opponent. dispatch | joshua mitnick see all stories meet the staff fp analytics fp events work at fp subscription services reprint permissions writer’s guidelines fp guides – graduate education fp for education fp archive buy back issues advertise with fp privacy policy contact us sign in subscribe subscribe upgrade to insider upgrade search toggle display of website navigation column: king kendrick and the ivory tower king kendrick and the ivory tower... share: marc lynch marc lynch is associate professor of political science and international affairs at george washington university, where he is the director of the institute for middle east studies and of the project on middle east political science. he is also a non-resident senior fellow at the center for a new american security. he is the author of the arab uprising (march 2012, publicaffairs). he publishes frequently on the politics of the middle east, with a particular focus on the arab media and information technology, iraq, jordan, egypt, and islamist movements. follow marc lynch: on twitter stories by marc lynch king kendrick and the ivory tower column | marc lynch february 3, 2014, 11:58 pm consent of the governors marc lynch | marc lynch january 20, 2014, 9:40 pm let your people go column | marc lynch january 8, 2014, 8:04 pm the middle east channel’s best of 2013 column | marc lynch december 31, 2013, 12:15 am the political science of syria’s war marc lynch | marc lynch december 19, 2013, 7:39 pm load more by marc lynch | return to staff list latest when home is more dangerous than the coronavirus march 27, 2020, 4:40 pm death by drone: america’s vicious legacy in afghanistan march 27, 2020, 4:03 pm today’s coronavirus anger can revive tomorrow’s welfare state march 27, 2020, 3:27 pm the political wizardry of benjamin netanyahu march 27, 2020, 2:42 pm is the u.s. also to blame in the oil price war? march 27, 2020, 1:56 pm see all stories trending 1 the coronavirus is the worst intelligence failure in u.s. history 2 how the world will look after the coronavirus pandemic 3 sweden is open for business during its coronavirus outbreak 4 in germany, coronavirus is no longer a distant threat 5 yes, blame china for the virus meet the staff fp analytics fp events work at fp subscription services reprint permissions writer’s guidelines fp guides – graduate education fp for education fp archive buy back issues advertise with fp privacy policy contact us powered by wordpress.com vip © 2020, the slate group