petite anglaise march 29, 2007 result filed under: working girl — petiteanglaiseparis @ 2:18 pm i read it here first, because no-one is faster than maître eolas. i won. a year’s salary, plus costs. i will only get this compensation if my ex-employer does not lodge an appeal (they will have one month in which to do so once the written version of the decision is published in about a fortnight’s time). but right now, the principle is enough for me. round one to petite anglaise! what a relief. anyone fancy babysitting for tadpole tonight so i can go out and paint the town red? comments (286) march 22, 2007 twist filed under: working girl — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:24 pm a french industrial tribunal hearing is, in some respects, a surprisingly informal affair. four prud’hommes, two employers and two employees who have been elected to hold this position (all salaried employees are eligible to go and vote in these elections, i’ve yet to meet anyone who has) preside over a small salle d’audience in civilian clothing, with the addition of a medal worn proudly around their necks on a red and blue ribbon. the lawyers representing the employees and employers whose cases are being heard wear black gowns with a white ruffle at the neck. after a roll call at 1pm, the cases are heard one by one, and lawyers, employees, journalists, even members of the general public are free to come and go as they please as long – as they do so discreetly – and to report on the content of the proceedings. in sixth place, my turn didn’t come until 5.30pm. i read, i paced, i chatted to my lawyer. i paced some more. i drank too much coffee. lawyers have explained to me that the prud’hommes don’t necessarily have any legal background, and make their decisions based on their combined experience and common sense, decisions which are therefore often open to challenge and taken to the appeals court, where a more traditional, rigorous legal debate can take place. after hearing the arguments put forward orally by both parties’ lawyers the prud’hommes review the supporting documents and written arguments and deliver their decision. sometimes this is immediate, but in my case the result will be announced in a week’s time. i think this had as much to do with the fact that the session was running late and there were several cases to be heard after mine, as it did with the complexity of the subject up for debate. how did i feel when the hearing was over? frustrated. because after all that waiting, when the time came, our lawyers were asked to be brief. it seemed to be over in the blink of an eye. i didn’t speak, except to confirm a couple of minor details. i was being spoken for, criticised, but able to do little more than wince or grimace when i disagreed with what was said. and most importantly, i realised that this case is based on words, not actions. my words. commenters’ words. and oh how they can be twisted. no-one is saying that i did a bad job. no-one is saying i was guilty of absenteeism or slacked off or exhibited any sort of disloyal behaviour in the office. my actual performance in my job as secretary to a partner seems to be a moot point. i was fired because when my blog was discovered (or rather its existence reported to my boss by someone who worked with me) my employer read that i sometimes blogged from work, when i had nothing better to do. that a passage about meeting my lover in a hotel implied that i might have lied about my whereabouts on two half days, a year previously. that by blogging about work at all (however rarely i actually did this, and regardless of the fact that i did so under the cloak of anonymity) i was being disloyal to my employer and putting the reputation of the firm at risk. in addition to making this point – and i think his exact words were “if she’d confessed to murder on her blog, even if there was no actual proof of any wrongdoing, should she go to prison?” – my lawyer used jurisprudence to argue that an employee is not some sort of robot whose time is not their own. the internet has broken down the barriers between the personal and the professional, and previous rulings have shown that workers do have the right to send the odd personal email or use the internet for non work-related surfing, as long as they are doing their job. he argued that freedom of speech permits a worker to discuss what goes on in the workplace, as long as the line is not crossed into libel. although i was told that the firm objected to certain passages on my blog, i only discovered what these were when the supporting documents for the tribunal case were sent to us a little over a month ago and i saw which extracts they had translated into to french. clearly if there had been anything libellous, i’d have been sued by now. but either they’re not, or it’s impossible to demonstrate that the people i described were identifiable. so far, so good. predictably, it’s the arguments made by my former employer’s lawyer which i found objectionable. true, they had nothing to support their allegations that i had damaged the firm’s reputation, or even caused any distress to any members of staff prior to my dismissal. the two or three colleagues who had signed a short statement were simply confirming that they knew of the blog’s existence and that they had seen me consult it at work. so in the absence of any hard facts, my words were used against me. translated into french, taken out of context, a couple of lines from a post, a comment written by me, a comment written by a reader. no clarification about who wrote what, or when. taken in isolation you can pretty much make words mean whatever you want them to. so i had to sit there, seething, while my own words were made to lie. “the subject which is preying on my mind, to the exclusion of all else, is the fraught atmosphere at work. however, i’ve come to the conclusion that i need to exercise caution about what i say.” “now, when i have a discussion with my colleagues over lunch, i no longer even know myself whether i’m picking their brains for material for a future post or just having a normal friendly conversation. unwittingly they have become guinea pigs…” these two little snippets, taken out of context and wrenched from their rightful place in my blog’s history (september 05 and october 04) were used to imply that just before i left, in april 2006, my blog caused an awkward atmosphere at work. that colleagues had started to be aware of it and now lived in constant fear of what i might say about them. that this made my continued presence in the company impossible. i was pleased when one of the prud’hommes piped up and asked whether there was any evidence to support this, such as written complaints by employees, which of course there weren’t, because hardly anyone knew about the blog, and aside from a couple of descriptions of my superiors, and this isolated example from july 2004, no-one had actually been written about. ever. but this only mollified me a little. because in fact, in the first instance, i was explaining that things were tense with my boss but i realised i should be careful not to talk about that on the blog, in a post where i then went on to provide my readers with a quiz. in the second, i was talking about the effect of blogging on my life, and saying that i sometimes tested my stories out on my friends in conversation to see if they were funny before i wrote them up on the blog. anyone who has read petite anglaise knows that i didn’t make a habit of writing character assassinations of my colleagues and friends. but i can’t expect the prud’hommes to read an entire blog in a foreign language to convince them of this fact. or to know that the words which followed “guinea pigs” were “even though they know nothing about petite anglaise”. context is all. the masterstroke at the end was when my ex-employer’s lawyer congratulated me on my book deal, prompting raised eyebrows from all present. the implication being that because i haven’t suffered enough as a result of my sacking, that makes everything alright. let’s just gloss over those five months which intervened between my sacking and the deal, shall we? the ten kilos i lost through worry. the sleepless nights and constant crying. the apartment purchase which almost fell through. it doesn’t matter if i was wrongfully dismissed or not. who needs principles when they have something else to fall back on? which rather begs the question: if i’d been burgled, but won the lottery the following day, should the thief have been let off scott free because i could afford to replace everything? comments (90) march 19, 2007 renversé filed under: on the road — petiteanglaiseparis @ 9:44 pm geneva looks deceptively french. the signs are in french. many of the chain stores are familiar. the pâtisserie fare looks decidedly french, with not a german style gâteau in sight and the bread is baguette-shaped. if it wasn’t for the excessive cleanliness of every inch of the city, which almost feels too pristine to be real, i wouldn’t even suspect that my train had crossed over the border into switzerland. until the people start to give it away, that is. the swiss don’t behave anything like the parisians to whom i’ve grown so accustomed. not the swiss i meet anyway, who are basically waiters, waitresses, shopkeepers and café owners. because all i seem to do while in geneva is eat fondue or cake or brunch and drink café renversé after café renversé. there’s only so long you can spend admiring the jet d’eau or the snow white swans on the incredibly limpid lake before the desire to head for a café sets in. not because the lung-squeakingly pure air is giving you an increased appetite or making you thirsty, you understand. just because there doesn’t seem to be a great deal else to do. on friday afternoon, while my friend and hostess is finishing up at work, i saunter into the city centre. first, i buy a chocolate cow for tadpole as a little treat, and this is the occasion of my first unsettling retail experience. i have only just managed to withdraw cash, after several hours of tramping around the city centre in increasingly weary circles. you’d be forgiven for thinking that finding money in a swiss town known for its financial services – where every second person you pass is a suit barking something urgent-sounding about due diligence into his blackberry – should be child’s play. but the words “private bank” make me too nervous to cross the thresholds of the places i pass. is that private as in “keep out”? are they offices? or actual banks with cash points for the use of normal people without swiss bank accounts? i peer in, but can’t see beyond the first set of smoked-glass doors. once inside, is there some sort of private handshake i ought to know about? a dress code, perhaps? i’m so used to living in a city where a clearly labelled bank machine can be found every hundred metres or so on the outside of every bank that i am completely thrown. finally i find a bank with a reassuringly non-intimidating name (co-op) and when i make my way inside i’m pathetically relieved to see a normal-looking cash point lurking behind a potted plant. i draw out a nice fat sum of money in case it’s my last opportunity all weekend. the machine spits out a single note. which is why in the chocolate shop i pull a 100 franc note from my purse with an extremely apologetic face when i pay for tadpole’s cow (6 chf), bracing myself for the torrent of tutting and muttered abuse which must surely follow. “i’m really sorry, i don’t have anything less, i’ve just arrived in town,” i say in an anxious voice. i half expect to be told that i’ll have to come back later when i’ve got smaller denominations. imagine my amazement when the shopkeeper smiles sweetly and reassures me that this is no problem at all. and proceeds to wrap the cow delicately in many layers of tissue paper so that i can transport it back to france without mishap. then smiles again and wishes me a good afternoon and a pleasant stay in geneva. wow, i think to myself. either she was nice, or she is used to bankers wives paying with one thousand franc notes or asking her to put their purchases on their american express black card. the sun is shining and i decide to rest my weary feet, finding a pleasant-looking café with outdoor tables opposite the palais de justice. i decide to try a café renversé (literally: knocked over coffee), hoping that it is what the lady at the next table is drinking, a kind of latte in a glass with a small seam of froth perched on top. the waitress approaches. “qu’est ce qui vous ferait plaisir?” she asks pleasantly. i almost drop my menu in astonishment. what would make me happy? what would give me pleasure? is this for real, or have i wandered onto a film set? seconds later my coffee arrives and a navy-blue blanket is provided to warm my legs when the sun slips behind a cloud. “i could get use to all this niceness,” i say to my friend, setting down my book when she joins me at the café a couple of hours later. * * * * * * barely two days later and i’m hankering for dirty, gritty, surly, grubby, smoky paris. all that niceness is starting to set my teeth on edge. the immaculately groomed city is too bland, too aseptisé, too soulless. there’s not a cockroach, not a crotte in sight. no-one has been rude to me all weekend. i’m feeling homesick. * * * * * * “un pain au chocolat, s’il vous plaît,” i say to the greasy-aproned baker’s assistant on the rue de belleville. she catches sight of my twenty euro note before i even have time to begin my apology. “oh là là! comment je vais faire… c’est pas possible, ça…” she rolls her eyes at the people queuing behind, shrugs her shoulders, and finally slams a huge pile of change on the counter with an accusing clatter. she’s offloaded her entire centime collection onto me as a punishment. i sweep the coins into my purse with a flourish and walk out of the shop with my best poker face in place. wherever i may wander, there’s no place like home. comments (73) march 16, 2007 he did it! buy it now! filed under: misc — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:32 am dashing off to switzerland to visit a friend, but before i went, just needed to post this link: comments (14) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel