petite anglaise march 31, 2005 stand and deliver filed under: french touch — petiteanglaiseparis @ 12:16 pm i note, with some amusement, that the hm post office has been rapped across the knuckles for installing fee-charging cash machines in three quarters of its branches. especially as the offending machines bear a sticker stating that they are free, when in fact only consulting your balance or last few transactions is free. withdrawing money is not. four out of ten uk cash machines apparently charge a minimum fee for cash withdrawals these days. ten years ago, when i arrived in france, employed as an english assistante at the none too aesthetically pleasing lycée raymond queneau, i recall having to be very careful about using only crédit lyonnais atms (or dabs, as they are known over here) when i wanted to get my hands on my paltry paycheck. i ranted and raved that this was not, and would never be, the case in the uk, bragging that uk banks had a far superior grasp of the concept of customer service. however, over the past few years, banks in the uk seem to have been taking steps in the wrong direction. one can only hope that the mercenary french banks are not being used as their role models. on the other side of the channel we have to pay for the ‘privileges’ of receiving new cheque books by post, having a visa (debit) card and access to on-line banking facilities (a necessity, as i rarely now need to set foot in the horrible 70’s monstrosity that is the caisse d’epargne, place léon blum). there have been rumours that soon there will be a fee for every cheque written or cashed, and some banks are reintroducing charges for dab withdrawals. just when i thought it couldn’t get any worse. account ‘services’ are bundled into a helpful little package (forfait), which every bank concocts to a different recipe, making it tricky/impossible to compare charges between banks. helpfully, services which i do actually use, like for instance drawing money out in the uk or making international bank transfers, are stubbornly opaque, and not detailed in the convention de comptefrais de dossier (loan processing fee), should you decide to accept their terms. it can be up to € 1,000. the french banks cannot be persuaded to lend you as much as you would get in the uk, as the repayments are capped at 33.33% of your monthly earnings before tax, and you will be expected to repay over only 15 or 20 years. 25 year mortgages exist (but banks are often reluctant to offer them) and 30 year mortgages are simply unheard of. which is why mr frog and i have been priced out of the paris property market, unless i fancy raising tadpole, plus future potential mini-tadpole, in a small broom cupboard. the french do seem to have a completely different relationship with credit. they generally limit themselves to buying what they can actually afford. i do see this as a good thing, given the weight of credit card debt many families are struggling with in the uk, where consumers are constantly tempted to take on more debt and splash out on that three piece suite today (but pay nothing until december 2006). supermarkets like auchan and carrefour and companies like egg (who have seriously struggled to convince the recalcitrant french that online banking is the way forward) have gone some way towards changing this mentality recently, introducing store cards which double as credit cards. my bank only offers a direct debit or a deferred debit card, however. not that i’ve ever been able to actually obtain a credit card here. several department stores have refused my applications, with no justification forthcoming. i suspect having a entirely blank (or ‘virginal’, as the french would say) credit record in this country and being ‘foreign’ may have something to do with it. vive l’europe! comments (29) march 30, 2005 mort de rire? filed under: french touch — petiteanglaiseparis @ 12:04 pm i recently discovered skyblogs. to my horror. these are for the most part teen blogs and are hosted by shouty french radio station skyrock. the mothership’s homepage has so much busy flash animation (advertising) that i can’t actually look at it for more than five seconds without triggering a migraine. it sets the tone nicely for what is to come. imagine if you will a blog written entirely in mobile phone textspeak, littered with a few low resolution photos uploaded from a cheap cameraphone, and you are getting to the essence of what skyblogging is. indecipherable unless you are a teenager yourself, or happen to have a teenage translator to hand who understands all the slang, verlan (backwards slang, or sometimes backwards backwards slang – meriting of a post in itself one day) and teen cultural references whch are thrown into the mix. the following text was lifted from p-a13 and i reproduce it here along with my attempted translation into french, and then english: voila sa c théo 1 gro pomé du bahu lol!!! g d cone mdr!! c mon meilleur pote il tro s1pa on c clate tro o bahu enssemble top d lire mdr!!! a+ mek by !!! voilà ça c’est theo un gros paumé du bahut. lol!!! je déconne mdr [mort de rire]!! c’est mon meilleur pote. il est trop sympa. on s’éclate trop au bahut ensemble. top délire mdr!! a plus mec. bye!! this is theo a fat loser from school. lol!! i’m joking lol!! it’s my best friend. he is too nice. we have too much fun together. top fantastic lol!! see you soon mate. bye. other sites abound which are completely beyond my limited translation abilities. especially those written by french teenagers with north african parents or grandparents, who use a smattering of arabic words or french/arabic hybrid slang in addition to french textspeak. at least i imagine that’s what they are. the skyblog community is so vast that the volume of traffic the most popular skyblogs attract is phenomenal. take this graffiti blog, for example, where visitors can leave their name and colour preferences and the blogger will create and publish a personalised tague . the site has seen a staggering 132,000+ visits since its creation in february 2005 and the most recent entry attracted 17,462 comments. however, closer inspection reveals that many of these are a new form of comment spam: fellow skybloggers promoting their own blogs. i suppose i’m as guilty as the next person for having left the odd strategic comment on a high profile site in the hope that i might pique the curiosity of a few of their visitors. dooce‘s daily photo entry is basically a competition to see who can comment first (unfortunately this paves the way for meaningless comments in the vein of “cute photo!”), as apparently pole position on her comments page translates into a not insignificant number of hits on the statcounter. but skybloggers are even less subtle: no beating about the bush, no semblance of interaction, just the blog address. vierge insolente, who from her picture looks like an all too familiar patchouli scented gothette, is one of the few skybloggers i have found so far who forms actual sentences with grammar and punctuation. in her recent farewell post she laments the fact that being in the skyblogs top ten means that no-one actually reads what she has to say any more, most simply dropping by to leave ads in her comments box. ce n’est plus personnel, c’est ennuyant… ne plus être livre d’écrire ce que l’on veut à cause d’une certaine célébrité. ce n’est pas un avantage d’être dans ce top 100… du moins dans les 10 premiers. tout le monde se fout de ce qu’on peut bien écrire, les gens sont un peu égoistes au fond, genre je te balance ma pub et j’en ai rien à faire de tes trucs… i hope that this isn’t where the rest of the blogosphere is headed. it takes me long enough to delete my trackback spam, without having to start filtering mindless ads from fellow bloggers as well. comments (27) march 29, 2005 daddy’s girl filed under: tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:30 am tadpole is nestling in my arms, limp, warm, soft and still half slumbering. i want to bury my nose in her neck and just breathe in her scent for a few minutes. but she has other ideas. she spies daddy through the slits of her bleary eyes. they snap open as if a switch has been flipped, her face becomes instantly animated, chubby little arms reach longingly in his direction. i surrender the tadpole, reluctantly. on the way home from the childminders’, singing songs. tadpole chants: “va voir daddy, va voir daddy, va voir daddy, va voir daddy!” “daddy’s not home yet, he’s at the office,” i explain. “non! pas office! va voir daddy!” there’s no reasoning with some people. “okay, whatever, let’s go home and see whether daddy is there, shall we?” daddy is special. who gets up bright and early every morning and proceeds to zip around the apartment hurriedly cramming flailing limbs into sleeves and trouser legs, braving dangerous windmill legs to change soiled nappies, brushing unruly locks, cleaning teeth and supervising the slurping of leftover milk from the cereal bowl (a hazardous manoeuvre which, if badly executed, can necessitate the cramming of small flailing limbs into fresh clothing)? i do. where is mr frog while this is all going on? cocooned away in a steaming bath listening to his floating radio (with hindsight, probably the most ill thought out gift i ever gave him) with eyes closed. who races home from work every evening, cursing metro delays and pelting up and down escalators at full speed, checking the time every other minute hoping that the nanny will not be kept waiting or need overtime pay? who then prepares a healthy, nutritious (but ready in two minutes in the microwave) meal for the ravenous tadpole, bathes her, reads several stories and finally sits down to put feet up and savour a much needed cup of tea at approximately 8pm? i do. when does mr frog show up? at best, in time for one last story. at worst, much later than that. possibly after even my bedtime. what do i get in return for my daily labours of love? i’m taken for granted. daddy, on the other hand, who has wisely marketed himself as a scarce and therefore greatly prized commodity, is deluged with affection. it’s a man’s world and no mistake. comments (22) march 28, 2005 philosophy of time travel filed under: misc — petiteanglaiseparis @ 9:04 am i’m suffering from blogger’s guilt. if i don’t post tomorrow, my site will look forlorn, naked and neglected. the fonts will wilt, a layer of dust will settle on my header image and the disappointment of my regular visitors as they click on, then off again in disgust, will be almost tangible. sadly, as i’ll be leaving the parental home tomorrow morning and not arriving in paris until late afternoon, writing will be nigh on impossible. which means that, were i a conscientious soul, i would rustle up a little post for you now (sunday evening) and then press the magic button which makes things publish in the future, with a startlingly convincing timestamp, say 9.04 am. but it’s 00.05 and i’m just too weary and low (pmt if you must know) to deliver the goods. my apologies. normal service will resume on tuesday. you’re all on holiday today anyways, so you should have something better to do than read blogs all day, right? news in brief highlights of easter weekend: the look on tadpole’s face when she first caught sight of herself in the mirror wearing pink, fluffy easter bunny ears (courtesy of great grandma), and the perfect way she pronounced selected yorkshire phrases (e.g. “ee by gum”) after a short but effective coaching session with grandad. comments (13) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel