subscribe coronavirus brief what to know maps staying healthy newsletter u.s. politics world tech entertainment subscribe close coronavirus brief what to know maps staying healthy newsletter home u.s. politics world business tech health entertainment science newsfeed living history ideas sports the time vault magazine time immersive audio longform photography videos press room shop time the 100 most influential people guns in america next generation leaders person of the year space explorers: the iss experience time cover store time for kids time edge subscribe give a gift newsletters feedback jobs privacy policy your california privacy rights terms of use ad choices time apps advertising reprints and permissions help site map customer service eu customer service stay connected entertainment chefs mario batali's sexual misconduct apology came with a cinnamon roll recipe mario batali's sexual misconduct apology came with a cinnamon roll recipe by jamie ducharme december 16, 2017 celebrity chef mario batali, who was accused of sexual misconduct by four women on monday, served up an apology for his actions with a side of cinnamon rolls. batali began his email newsletter with an apology for his “past behavior.” “as many of you know, this week there has been some news coverage about some of my past behavior. i have made many mistakes and i am so very sorry that i have disappointed my friends, my family, my fans and my team. my behavior was wrong and there are no excuses. i take full responsibility,” he wrote. “sharing the joys of italian food, tradition and hospitality with all of you, each week, is an honor and privilege. without the support of all of you—my fans—i would never have a forum in which to expound on this. i will work every day to regain your respect and trust.” after the apology, however, batali added a postscript that many are calling tone deaf. “in case you’re searching for a holiday-inspired breakfast, these pizza dough cinnamon rolls are a fan favorite,” he tacked on to the end of the newsletter, complete with a link to the recipe. the reaction to the addition on twitter was both swift and negative. batali stepped away from his restaurant empire following the allegations. eataly, the italian market chain batali co-owns, has also distanced itself from the celebrity chef. most popular on time 1 will covid-19 ever really go away? 2 fbi arrests actor who claimed he had a coronavirus cure 3 mom wears wedding dress to lunch while social distancing for the most adorable reason write to jamie ducharme at jamie.ducharme@time.com. read more from time most popular stories 1 will covid-19 ever really go away? 2 fbi arrests actor who claimed he had a coronavirus cure 3 mom wears wedding dress to lunch while social distancing for the most adorable reason 4 is the u.s. 'flattening the curve?' check our chart related stories edit post subscribe & save subscribe today and save up to 84% off the cover price. subscribe now sign up for our newsletters sign up to receive the top stories you need to know now on politics, health and more subscribe home u.s. politics world business tech entertainment health science newsfeed living ideas history sports the time vault magazine newsletters masthead time immersive audio longform subscribe give a gift time for kids time edge time cover store press room customer service eu customer service site map ad choices advertising careers © 2020 time usa, llc. all rights reserved. use of this site constitutes acceptance of our terms of use, privacy policy (your california privacy rights) and california do not sell my personal information. time may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. offers may be subject to change without notice.