skip to content marketop data marketing agency home about solutions blog contact home about solutions blog contact a data marketing agency for fueled by ai and machine learning hello! we are marketop - a data marketing agency based in new york. at marketop, we generate the highest quality leads powered by ai and machine learning. our proprietary platform tracks over 15 billion data-points across the internet that monitor human behavior of more than 275 million americans. we then use our data technology and smart marketing systems to develop campaigns that market our partners ads to only 3% of individuals that are actual buyers. among our clients 01. ai data contacts decrypting a list of contacts through ai that has shown user behavior search for your service. 02. ads targeting we target the data contacts with facebook and google ads, instead of targeting your entire city. 03. leads nurturing use our dashboard to nurture your leads with calls, emails, text messages, voice drops and direct mail. 04. delivery & conversion your leads are delivered in your dashboard, or your crm of preference through our api. our expertise! technology and data are the new marketing and requires expertise more than it requires money. in-market audiences think of everyone “in the market” that is ready to purchase from you or hire you. through machine learning and ai, we give you a list of contacts that have shown online activity searching for your service. lead generation we take it from a to z, through the entire funnel and deliver a qualified lead specifically requesting to connect with you, while reducing your cost per acquisition. site visitor match special offer who are they ? through identity resolution, you can own the data of your website visitor. data-driven behavioral insight technology permanent targeting get ownership of your targeting data. it is not cookie-based. it is people-based and never expires. imagine how much you can do. portable targeting our data files are delivered in a format that every major advertising platform accepts. it puts control of your marketing in your hands and your hands alone. transparent targeting 100% sales match accountability, which means full ad-spend attribution, giving you the ability to track every marketing dollar spent and accurately measure its effectiveness. pre-purchase buying behavior we track url-level behavior, keyword searches, content consumption, social behavior, campaign response and buying behavior. closed loop analysis predictions with measured outcomes are priceless. we measure outcomes to improve our predictions. conversion behavior profile we model the behavior of past buyers to predict the behavior of future buyers, it is more accurate than any other type of targeting. recent posts how to generate the best leads in the legal industry to increase sales the future of ai and machine learning in marketing convert website visitors into leads how well is your website performing ? have a question for us? let’s chat! contact form email us to discuss details! team@marketop.io find us on:facebooktwitterlinkedin © 2020 marketop ❤️ nyc privacy policies terms of use useful links go to top