skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about marketing best video hosting sites for bloggers, vloggers & website owners – 2020 by jamie video content has become an essential part of marketing for businesses and brands. it’s not enough to simply take advantage of social media networks or use traditional forms of advertising. we live in a digital world where streaming content is king. while the quality of your videos is important, it’s only one part of the … read morebest video hosting sites for bloggers, vloggers & website owners – 2020 categories marketing 30 epic google docs tips and features you need to be using by jamie if you regularly use google docs to create content for your website, then you’re probably well aware of how useful this free tool is. however, there are a ton of shortcuts, apps, and built-in features that you might not be using. by reading through and applying the hacks highlighted in this post, you’re going to … read more30 epic google docs tips and features you need to be using categories marketing 120 mind-blowing mobile marketing stats – 2020 by jamie it only took five years since the inception of the first iphone for mobile web traffic to surpass desktop traffic. since then, smartphone usage has continued to skyrocket, proving the world we live in is now officially a mobile one. to not only exist but thrive in today’s mobile world, every business and marketer should … read more120 mind-blowing mobile marketing stats – 2020 categories marketing a short guide on how to type the shrug emoji ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ by jamie i love emojis, but there’s something nostalgic about old-fashioned typed emoticons. they evoke memories of a simpler time when aol ruled the roost and phones still had actual keyboards with buttons. yes, those are what we now affectionately call “the good old days.” if typed emoticons still hold a special place in your heart like … read morea short guide on how to type the shrug emoji ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ categories marketing best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub