first time visitors about the show most popular episodes your hosts the archives the moc awards talk to us newsletter contact marketing over coffee select page eric schwartzman on media monitoring by mktgovercoffee | mar 27, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about the state of media monitoring sofware, ai, fake news and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and linkedin the 2020 media monitoring buyers guide what made you write the report? what are the key... now with more women! by mktgovercoffee | mar 20, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about international women’s day, clearview, ryan reynolds and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and linkedin image courtesy of catherine and sarah satrun – please buy a print here.... time for a coffee break by mktgovercoffee | mar 13, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about bimi, going cashierless, and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and express vpn talking about covid-19 data event cancellations – starting with sxsw and think amazon and microsoft stepping... christopher lochhead on the biggest mistake made in marketing by mktgovercoffee | mar 6, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about data flywheels, the state of podcasting, political marketing fails and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: linkedin and ahrefs that time lochhead destroyed my marketing department (previous interview)... gini dietrich talks peso and spin sucks by mktgovercoffee | feb 28, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: gini dietrich of spin sucks talks peso, marketing analytics, content scanning and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and express vpn where spin sucks started and why didn’t they ever give up on it? the... now with more regional sports network fees! by mktgovercoffee | feb 21, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about smart speakers, facial recognition, bs cable fees, and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and linkedin google weather map looking stormy blocking to win the media scrape battle but losing the... amanda brinkman of deluxe talks small business revolution! by mktgovercoffee | feb 14, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about content as a service to your customers direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and expressvpn.com deluxe small business revolution on hulu betting on content to stretch your spend 12x 6:38 moc is brought to... now with smaaht paahk! by mktgovercoffee | feb 7, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about lumpy data, the innovators dilemma, lucifer and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and linkedin superb owl ads – smaht pahk! groundhog day and wal-mart on lumpy political data jumpshot out... simon sinek on the infinite game by mktgovercoffee | jan 31, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about simon’s newest book! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and expressvpn past interviews: start with why, leaders eat last, together is better the autobiographical journey losing your passion... now with more vr! by mktgovercoffee | jan 24, 2020 | podcast in this marketing over coffee: learn about oculus quest, nlp, tiktok and more! direct link to file brought to you by our sponsors: ahrefs and linkedin chris gets the oculus quest for testing favorites: tilt brush by google, vader immortal, beat saber 2 out of 3... « older entries subscribe to moc search for: recent episodes eric schwartzman on media monitoring now with more women! time for a coffee break recent posts from christopher penn you ask, i answer: reposting year-old social media content? you ask, i answer: social media audience growth rates during crisis? you ask, i answer: can ai solve word problems? recent posts from trust insights {podcast} in-ear insights: preparing your career for an economic downturn marketing analytics, data science and leadership – march 23, 2020 week in review business analytics 101: how to monitor business trends copyright 2008-2019, marketing over coffee.