register sign in home read play connect search logout privacy policy sign in forgot password? sign in don't have an account? privacy policy {{lfctrl.headtitlestep1}} {{lfctrl.headcopystep1}} reset password privacy policy an email is headed your way we've sent a message so you can pick a new password. didn't get the email? send again privacy policy reset your password think of a password that is at least 6 characters long. change password privacy policy success! you now have a new password. please be sure to memorize it or write it in a safe place. go to your account ﻿ wait! are you sure you want to exit? your password will not be reset! i'll reset password later {{lfctrl.notice}} privacy policy register step 1 create a username by filling in the sentences. my favorite is . the coolest is . choose two words for your username. {{username}} next already have an account? sign in privacy policy register step 2 enter your (or your parent's) email address. how will it be used? think of a password that is at least 6 characters long. register! go back privacy policy you are now registered! sign up for free e-newsletters (optional) why sign up? preview the latest newsletters here. i am interested in scholastic kids newsletter graphix newsletter . no thanks. i'll browse the site or choose my avatar. privacy policy congrats! you're signed up for {{newsletters}} the next newsletter will arrive in your inbox within a few weeks. pick an avatar browse site ﻿ wait! are you sure you don't want to finish? you're almost done! i'll sign up later close search error loading the service choose your avatar first, pick a character. next go back choose your avatar now pick your costume! finish privacy policy we are missing your email address. please enter your or your parent's email address. we will only use your email address to reset your password should you forget it. submit privacy policy sign up for free e-newsletters (optional) why sign up? preview the latest newsletters here. i am interested in newsletter 1 newsletter 2 newsletter 3 newsletter 4 newsletter 5 . no thanks. i'll browse the site or choose my avatar. privacy policy congrats! you're signed up for {{nlctrl.form.newsletters.join(',')}} the next newsletter will arrive in your inbox within a few weeks. pick an avatar browse site privacy policy hey, {{userdata.username}}! edit your profile i'm interested in ghosts, monsters, vampires & witches facts, trivia & world records dragons & mythical creatures aliens & ufos action & adventure heroes animals popular culture friends & friendship magic & supernatural sports . my favorite genre is adventure & sci-fi funny graphic novels fantasy historical mystery and horror real life nonfiction . i want to read 1-5 6-10 11-15 16-20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 61-70 71-80 81-90 91-99 100+ books this year. save changes you are now leaving scholastic.com be sure to get permission from a parent or teacher before leaving scholastic.com, and read the privacy policy and terms of use of any site you visit. always check with your parents before giving out information about yourself, entering a contest or sweepstakes, or buying anything online. keep going to the web site > or, go back to scholastic.com you will go to the website in seconds how old are you? please enter your birthdate below month day year scholastic does not keep this information. privacy policy continue oops, sorry, you can't buy the book directly from our site for kids. if you want to get the book online, ask your parent to help you purchase it. okay get the book available at:the scholastic store format: {{format_selected}} {{format}} {{item.textlink}} {{item.textlink}} find a local library enter your zip code to find a library near you using google maps. (not to worry, we will not save your information) search privacy policy share this your first name only friend's first name only friend's email address message here's something interesting from scholastic.com! i hope you like it. scholastic does not keep this information. privacy policy sorry! you can only put stickers where you see the dotted circles. add my sticker add my sticker add my sticker wait! wait! you have to sign in, first! sign in don't have an account? register now × menu search sign in register sign in register welcome back, {{$parent.userdata.username}} logout home read play connect all series hide g go back martin rising: requiem for a king requiem for a king author: andrea davis pinkney; illustrator: brian pinkney ages 9 - 12 genre non-fiction with imagination and power, the award-winning pinkney duo celebrates mlk's nonviolent struggle for civil rights — as he transforms america through the spirit of love. in a rich embroidery of visions, musical cadence, and deep emotion, andrea and brian pinkney convey the final months of martin luther king's life — and of his assassination — through metaphor, spirituality, and multilayers of meaning. andrea's stunning poetic requiem, illustrated with brian's lyrical and colorful artwork, brings a fresh perspective to martin luther king, the gandhi-like, peace-loving activist whose dream of equality — and whose courage to make it happen — changed the course of american history. and even in his death, he continues to transform and inspire all of us who share his dream. wonderful classroom plays of martin rising can be performed by using the "now is the time" history and the 1968 timeline at the back of the book as narration — and adding selected poems to tell the story! get this book start reading andrea davis pinkney and brian pinkney andrea davis pinkney and brian pinkney have made an outstanding contribution to the field of children's literature both as individuals and as a team. between them, they have published more than seventy children's books that have received the highest awards and accolades, including caldecott honors, coretta scott king honors, naacp image award nominations, and the may hill arbuthnot honor lecture award, to name a few. to learn more, please visit andreadavispinkey.com and brianpinkney.net endorsements alsc notable children’s book 2019 ★ "a unique and remarkable resource." — publishers weekly, starred review ★ "beautifully illustrated and begging to be read aloud." — school library journal, starred review ★ "breathtaking . . . packs an emotional wallop and, in perfect homage, soars when read aloud." — booklist, starred review ★ "readers have a children's book in which adults may also find succor, if not inspiration... spiritually vital." — kirkus reviews, starred review "stirring tribute to king’s personal warmth, spiritual strength and leadership. the book’s vivid poetry bursts with information as well as feeling" — the washington post "deeply personal poems and art capture the last months of martin luther king jr.’s life in a spiritual journey from daylight to darkness to dawn." — the san francisco chronicle ★ "powerfully lyrical poetry and. . . arresting paintings." — shelf awareness, starred review "an outstanding tribute." — kirkus reviews ★ "a creative poetic celebration" — horn book, starred review “an inspiring joy to read and a genuinely unique accolade” —voya reviews videos sneak peek! view slideshow view slideshow back next back next back next back next also available from andrea davis pinkney also available from brian pinkney privacy policy terms of use tm ® & © 2020 scholastic inc. all rights reserved scholastic.com privacy policy scholastic.com terms of service kids ×