content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search martech stack optimization: 5 insights for 2020 authors: todd lebo follow @@toddlebo as a partner and cmo of ascend2, todd helps connect marketing firms to prospective clients with the power of research. his background includes more than 20 years of marketing and content experience with marketingsherpa, kiplinger and the national institute of business management. view all posts posted under: digital marketing marketing continues to become more complex as marketing professionals have more and more marketing tactics available. marketers need to think about content, website, mobile, seo, sem, programmatic advertising, video, podcasts, webinars, email, automation, personalization, data, social media, account-based marketing, affiliate marketing, ecommerce, engagement, live events, syndication, gamification, retargeting, ai and more. as marketing continues to evolve, the technology needed to support marketing continues to evolve too. what is a martech stack? the martech stack is the group of technologies that markers use to execute, analyze and improve their marketing across the customer lifecycle. what is martech stack optimization? martech stack optimization is how you build your martech stack to optimize your marketing efforts. what technology do you need? what are your objectives? how do all of your technologies work together? do they work together? what investment should you plan for? and more. to understand the importance of martech stack optimization, you need to understand the growth of marketing technology in the past 10 years. to understand the rapid growth of marketing technology, look at the marketing technology infographic that is published by scott brinker, the chief marketing technologist, each year. the infographic has had such rapid growth that it is now called a supergraphic (a well-deserved title change). the supergraphic started in 2011 with 150 companies and has grown to 7,040 companies in 2019. yes, that is not a typo – 7040! to help marketing professionals with martech stack optimization, ascend2, a research-based marketing firm, fielded the martech stack optimization survey. 265 marketing professionals participated in the survey. with so many marketing technologies available, it is easy for companies to have a martech stack that is complex and highly inefficient. too often, multiple marketing technologies (or the martech stack) become a junkyard of underutilized and disparate tools. the purpose of optimizing this set of tools is to make difficult marketing processes easier and more efficient. the ascend2 survey helps answer the question: how will marketers optimize their martech tools in the year ahead? the martech stack optimization survey summary report is available free of charge and is filled with valuable research. here are a few noteworthy findings for the asend2 research study on martech stack optimization: finding #1: status of martech stack optimization within marketing departments today it seems that marketers have recognized and are slowly taking action when it comes to addressing how marketing technologies are utilized and managed. only about one-in-five marketing professionals (19%) have an operational strategy in place for optimizing a martech stack. however, another 58% report being in the development or implementation phase of optimization. about one-in-five marketing professionals (19%) have an operational strategy in place for optimizing a #martech stack. click to tweet finding #2: key priorities of martech stack optimization marketers are tasked with strategically implementing the appropriate marketing technologies in a way that produces significant results. making an overall marketing strategy more efficient is a top priority for 55% of marketing professionals implementing a martech stack optimization strategy. improving customer experience is also a key objective for 51% of marketers surveyed. making an overall marketing strategy more efficient is a top priority for 55% of marketing professionals implementing a #martech stack optimization strategy. click to tweet finding #3: martech must improve improve ease of use many marketing technologies are only as good as what the user puts into them. in order to best optimize marketing, over half of the marketing professionals (52%) report that implemented martech need to improve ease of use. increasing utilization and adoption of technology can lead to improved performance. finding #4: data insights and analysis is the most important feature of a martech stack when implementing a martech stack, some features are more important to marketers than others. access to data insights and analysis is the most important feature for 51% of marketing professionals surveyed who see the value in using data to optimize. ensuring the seamless integration of systems is also of significant importance to 46% of marketers. finding #5: martech stack optimization is an important investment marketers clearly see a benefit to dedicating resources to martech stack optimization, as 86% report that they will continue to invest or are planning to invest in the year ahead. about half of those surveyed (49%) describe this investment as moderate, while 22% say they will continue to invest significantly in optimizing a martech stack. conclusion before your martech stack looks more like a bowl of spaghetti than an optimized tool for marketing, take the time to build your strategy and determine what you need to be successful for the year ahead. to find out more about martech stack optimization, download the entire ascend report. while you're here get our best tips. join the smartest marketers who receive our weekly update. article continues while you're here other top articles content marketing 4 higher education content marketing examples that any school can implement zontee hou social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 lauren teague content marketing, greatest hits how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) anna hrach and jamie griffiths article continues who have we helped? who have we helped? we work to double your digital and we've done that for some of the best companies in the world. find out how we have helped organizations from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands. find out more what great brands do that good brands don't in content marketing okay content is easy. killer content is hard. this nifty ebook shows you the difference, based on our real-world work with dozens of brands. a must-read! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept