skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / windows / marvin windows marvin windows by devon rhodes on march 4, 2020 in windows collect this idea s_photo/shutterstock marvin windows started in 1912 as a family-owned and operated lumber company. today they offer more than 150,000 made-to-order window and door styles, all of which are energy star certified. marvin window products and pricing marvin windows products are made to order and can be customized to fit your home’s design. here are a few of their most popular window styles. the following pricing is approximate for a standard 48” x 60” window. actual prices can vary depending on the size, material and manufacturer promotions available at the time. signature collection marvin’s most popular line, the signature collection features all-wood windows designed for new construction. windows in this collection, like the signature ultimate line, come in a variety of different types of wood and stain or paint options. they are available in a number of styles, including: awning casement double-hung the wood construction of these windows requires maintenance and care but works well in craftsman or traditional home styles. price range: $350 – $680 essential collection made with their proprietary ultrex fiberglass material, marvin’s strongest windows are designed to be long-lasting and maintenance-free. the series is one of the most affordable collections and perfect for a starter home that needs an upgrade to improve efficiency levels. it’s an affordable series because it’s limited to five hardware finishes, six exterior finishes and the standard obscure glass. the essential collection offers a wide number of window styles, including: single-hung glider round top price range: $250 – $600 elevate collection marvin’s top-of-the-line window line, the elevate collection combines the durability of a fiberglass exterior with the warmth of a wood interior. the ultrex fiberglass construction is 8 times stronger than vinyl and resists warping. ultrex windows also have more glass surface than vinyl windows, which can make a huge difference in shaded or smaller homes that want to maximize natural light. marvin ultrex construction windows may be more expensive but would be ideal in areas with extreme weather changes (hot summers and cold winters). the fiberglass frame remains stable in extreme temperatures and expands at a similar rate to glass. windows in the elevate collection are available in styles like: cottage oriel standard price range: $1200 – $1500 marvin windows reviews, ratings, customer satisfaction marvin windows score well with customers and consumer research companies. they earned 3 out of 5 stars overall from j.d. power’s 2018 windows and patio doors satisfaction study with its highest rating (4/5 stars) in the appearance and design features category. the better business bureau (bbb) gives marvin windows their highest score of a+. the score is based on a scale of 13 factors like volume of complaints and how many complaints go unresolved. reasons why marvin windows is a great option marvin windows are some of the highest quality windows on the market and the go-to manufacturer for wood windows. all styles are energy star certified for the highest efficiency rating. marvin is also one of the few companies that custom-makes their windows to customer specs in an unlimited number of sizes, shapes and styles. the marvin limited warranty is transferable and guarantees the exterior and glass of their windows for 20 years, hardware for 10 years and the interior construction for five years. frequently asked questions how much do marvin windows cost? marvin offers many series, shapes and sizes of windows, so prices will vary. marvin is not known as a budget window manufacturer. they specialize in quality and custom windows at a mid to high price range, compared to other manufacturers. what types of windows does marvin sell? marvin specializes in wood windows but one of their most popular finishes is ultrex — a fiberglass composite that the company developed themselves. it’s more durable than vinyl. they custom-build windows in nearly any size and shape and have a vast catalog of options. where can i buy marvin windows? visit marvin.com and enter your zip code to find a dealer near you. also read bedroom windows bedroom windows buying guide windows best pella replacement windows popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss