home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads mary oliver on how differences bring couples closer together mary oliver’s advice on writing mary oliver on the mystery of the human psyche, the secret of great poetry, and how rhythm makes us come alive labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate “attention without feeling … is only a report.” by maria popova mary oliver is one of our era’s most beloved and prolific poets — a sage of wisdom on the craft of poetry and a master of its magic; a woman as unafraid to be witty as she is to be wise. for more than forty years, oliver lived on cape cod with the love of her life, the remarkable photographer molly malone cook — one of the first staff photographers for the village voice, with subjects like walker evans and eleanor roosevelt, and a visionary gallerist who opened the first photography gallery on the east coast, exhibited such icons as ansel adams and berenice abbott, and recognized rising talent like william clift. (she was also, living up to her reputation as “a great bohemian american,” the owner of a bookshop frequented by norman mailer and occasionally staffed by the filmmaker john waters.) mary oliver (b. 1935, right) with molly malone cook (1925–2005) at the couple’s home in provincetown, massachusetts when cook died in 2005 at the age of eighty, oliver looked for a light, however faint, to shine through the thickness of bereavement. she spent a year making her way through thousands of her spouse’s photographs and unprinted negatives, mostly from around the time they met, which oliver then enveloped in her own reflections to bring to life our world (public library) — part memoir, part deeply moving eulogy to a departed soul mate, part celebration of their love for one another through their individual creative loves. embraced in oliver’s poetry and prose, cook’s photographs reveal the intimate thread that brought these two extraordinary women together — a shared sense of deep aliveness and attention to the world, a devotion to making life’s invisibles visible, and above all a profound kindness to everything that exists, within and without. oliver — who refers to cook simply as m. in most of her writings — reflects in the opening essay: though you have known someone for more than forty years, though you have worked with them and lived with them, you do not know everything. i do not know everything — but a few things, which i will tell. m. had will and wit and probably too much empathy for others; she was quick in speech and she did not suffer fools. when you knew her she was unconditionally kind. but also, as our friend the bishop tom shaw said at her memorial service, you had to be brave to get to know her. […] she was style, and she was an old loneliness that nothing could quite wipe away; she was vastly knowledgeable about people, about books, about the mind’s emotions and the heart’s. she lived sometimes in a black box of memories and unanswerable questions, and then would come out and frolic — be feisty, and bold. amish schoolroom, late 1950s (photograph: molly malone cook) oliver writes of the affair cook had in the late 1950s, shortly before they met: she had … an affair that struck deeply; i believe she loved totally and was loved totally. i know about it, and i am glad… this love, and the ensuing emptiness of its ending, changed her. of such events we are always changed — not necessarily badly, but changed. who doesn’t know this doesn’t know much. the following year, cook met oliver and they remained together, inseparable, for more than four decades. that encounter — which calls to mind the fateful first meetings that occasioned such iconic literary couples as gertrude stein and alice b. toklas or sylvia plath and ted hughes — took place at steepletop, the home of edna st. vincent millay, where oliver had landed the day after her high school graduation at the age of seventeen and stayed for several years. inside the library at steepletop, the home of the poet edna st. vincent millay, late 1950s (photograph: molly malone cook) one evening in 1959, when oliver was twenty-four and cook thirty-four, the young poet returned to the house and found the photographer sitting at the kitchen table with a friend. she describes their encounter with her signature elegance of unpeeling the mundane to reveal the momentous: i took one look and fell, hook and tumble. m. took one look at me, and put on her dark glasses, along with an obvious dose of reserve. she denied this to her dying day, but it was true. isn’t it wonderful the way the world holds both the deeply serious, and the unexpectedly mirthful? mary oliver in 1964 (photograph: molly malone cook) it turned out that oliver and cook, in their regular lives beyond steepletop, lived right across the street from each other in new york’s east village. so they began to see one another “little by little,” and so their great love story began. chess players, washington square, new york city, late 1950s (photograph: molly malone cook) but perhaps the greatest gift of their union was the way in which they shaped each other’s way of seeing and being with the world — the mutually ennobling dialogue between their two capacities for presence: it has frequently been remarked, about my own writings, that i emphasize the notion of attention. this began simply enough: to see that the way the flicker flies is greatly different from the way the swallow plays in the golden air of summer. it was my pleasure to notice such things, it was a good first step. but later, watching m. when she was taking photographs, and watching her in the darkroom, and no less watching the intensity and openness with which she dealt with friends, and strangers too, taught me what real attention is about. attention without feeling, i began to learn, is only a report. an openness — an empathy — was necessary if the attention was to matter. such openness and empathy m. had in abundance, and gave away freely… i was in my late twenties and early thirties, and well filled with a sense of my own thoughts, my own presence. i was eager to address the world of words — to address the world with words. then m. instilled in me this deeper level of looking and working, of seeing through the heavenly visibles to the heavenly invisibles. i think of this always when i look at her photographs, the images of vitality, hopefulness, endurance, kindness, vulnerability… we each had our separate natures; yet our ideas, our influences upon each other became a rich and abiding confluence. […] i don’t think i was wrong to be in the world i was in, it was my salvation from my own darkness. nor have i ever abandoned it — those early signs that so surely lead toward epiphanies. and yet, and yet, she wanted me to enter more fully into the human world also, and to embrace it, as i believe i have. and what a gift [that she] never expressed impatience with my reports of the natural world, the blue and green happiness i found there. our love was so tight. ‘my first clam,’ 1964 (photograph: molly malone cook) to lose the love of one’s life is something few have dared to live in public — the most memorable such bravery being joan didion’s — but oliver brings to death’s darkness her familiar touch of emboldening light: the end of life has its own nature, also worth our attention. i don’t say this without reckoning in the sorrow, the worry, the many diminishments. but surely it is then that a person’s character shines or glooms. oliver ends with a breath-stopping prose poem that brings full-circle her opening reflections on never fully knowing even those nearest to us — a beautiful testament to what another wise woman once wrote: “you can never know anyone as completely as you want. but that’s okay, love is better.” the whistler all of a sudden she began to whistle. by all of a sudden i mean that for more than thirty years she had not whistled. it was thrilling. at first i wondered, who was in the house, what stranger? i was upstairs reading, and she was downstairs. as from the throat of a wild and cheerful bird, not caught but visiting, the sounds war- bled and slid and doubled back and larked and soared. finally i said, is that you? is that you whistling? yes, she said. i used to whistle, a long time ago. now i see i can still whistle. and cadence after cadence she strolled through the house, whistling. i know her so well, i think. i thought. elbow and an- kle. mood and desire. anguish and frolic. anger too. and the devotions. and for all that, do we even begin to know each other? who is this i’ve been living with for thirty years? this clear, dark, lovely whistler? boy with telescope, new york cruises, late 1950s (photograph: molly malone cook) our world is a sublime read in its entirety — the kind that enters the soul like a deep breath and remains there as an eternal exhale. complement it with oliver on how rhythm sweetens life and her beautiful reading of her poem “wild geese.” donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published january 20, 2015 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2015/01/20/mary-oliver-molly-malone-cook-our-world/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artbooksculturelovemary oliverphotographypoetrypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.