content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip master class: content marketing strategies for brands and agencies when: january 23, 2020 where: stewart hotel 371 7th ave, new york, ny 10001 cost: $695.00 registration open now! want better results from your content marketing? this one-day, hands-on workshop will help you make 2020 the year you get them. we’ll teach you a time-tested process for honing your existing strategy or developing a new one you can apply to any content marketing goal, including: building brand awareness strengthening credibility and trust nurturing subscribers, audiences, and leads generating demand and revenue building loyalty supporting new products who should attend? anyone who wants to create exceptional content that engages their audience and helps grow their business will benefit from this class, including: marketers who lead content and demand generation teams for their brand agency leaders and strategists who lead client content marketing engagements or create content to promote their agency corporate communications and pr leaders charged with content strategy audience development and new business professionals charged with attracting and engaging followers and prospects what you’ll learn through expert instruction and workshop exercises, you’ll end the class knowing how to: build a strategy that aligns your content marketing program with business goals create a content marketing mission statement that will guide every piece of content you create develop personas that pinpoint audience needs and wants identify the unique value you can offer that audience come up with ideas for content your audience will care about and that support your goals measure and prove multiple lines of value from content marketing why learn from us? we’ve taught thousands of marketers at brands and agencies how to advance their content marketing practices over the past decade. that’s literally cmi’s mission. we do this through live events (including content marketing world, contenttech summit, content marketing university, and master classes), webinars, and online content. robert rose, our chief strategy advisor, has personally helped more than 500 brands with their strategic marketing. he also co-wrote (with cmi founder joe pulizzi) killing marketing, which has been called “the book that rewrites the rules of marketing.” agenda: 8:30 am – 9:00 am: registration and light breakfast/coffee 9:00 am – 9:15 pm: welcome 9:15 am – 9:45 am: return on audience – the success of content marketing content marketing is a business model and should be treated as such. we examine the state of content marketing, frame the right questions, identify the challenges, and examine a new, integrated approach to the strategic value of content marketing. 9:45 am – 10:00 am: break 10:00 am – 11:00 am: purpose-driven content marketing strategies creating content that aligns with a business purpose is more challenging than ever. we have to develop content that competes not only with competitors, but for the fragmented attention of audiences across every type of media channel. we talk through the right way to make the business case for content marketing and outline the content strategy plan. 11:00 am – 11:15 am: classwork exercise 11:15 am – 12:00 pm: audience persona development: the product design of content effective marketing communication that creates value for audiences means looking at people as more than simply buyers, or influencers. as we look to specifically deliver value to audiences, we need to understand how to differentiate our story, and not only deliver facts, but make people care about the facts. this is what plays into the bigger picture of creating content that entertains, inspires, and/or educates the audience we are trying to influence. 12:00 pm – 1:00 pm: lunch and classwork exercise 1:00 pm – 1:30 pm: dessert and a word from our sponsor 1:30 – 2:30 pm: the architecture of storytelling and why audiences will care about our content we’ll dig in and start working on our stories. let’s get to the remarkable and emotional stories we want to tell as content marketers. 2:30 pm – 2:45 pm: exercise: storytelling and getting to your story’s core architecture 2:45pm – 3:15 pm: measure like a media company if we’re going to create media products like a media company, let’s learn how to value our audience in a similar way. from direct measurement, to indirect value, let’s explore a framework for driving multiple lines of value out of our content marketing initiative. 3:15 pm – 3:45pm: story mapping we’ll examine what success looks like, and how can we begin to map out a successful approach to implementing our strategy. we’ll take a step by step approach for looking at your content marketing strategy and developing the implementation plan. 3:45pm – 4:00 pm: questions, answers, and epilogue we’ll wrap up and focus on how we take what we learned today and make it real. robert rose, chief strategy advisor, cmi robert rose is the founder and chief strategy officer of the content advisory – the education and advisory group of the content marketing institute. as a strategist, robert has worked with more than 500 companies including global brands such as capital one, dell, ernst & young, hewlett packard, and the bill & melinda gates foundation. robert is the author of three books. his latest, killing marketing, with co-author joe pulizzi has just been released. his last book, experiences: the 7th era of marketing, was called a “treatise, and a call to arms for marketers to lead business innovation in the 21st century.” robert is also an early-stage investor and advisor to a number of technology startups, serving on the advisory boards for a number of companies, such as akoonu, divvyhq and tint. @robert_rose thanks to our media sponsors: blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree