about contents faqs support login register masterclass an online course to banish overwhelm and focus your leadership. register watch video focus your leadership focus your team grow your business no one taught you how to be a leader. and yet, here you are. you’re expected to lead your team, balance your growing demands, drive consistent results, and—in the midst of all of this—find time to invest in your growth. how can you become the leader everyone expects you to be when all you feel is overwhelmed? the solution is greater focus. being an overwhelmed leader is costing you. it’s time to become the focused leader. get the masterclass the focused leader contains the six best leadership strategies from michael hyatt. as the former ceo of a $250m corporation and the founder and ceo of a multimillion dollar, leadership-development company, michael hyatt knows what it’s like to feel overwhelmed as a leader. in his 40+ year career, he learned six game-changing shifts that changed the way he approached leadership. every shift centered around one key component: focus. developed to help leaders focus on what matters most, the focused leader provides a proven process for instant momentum in your leadership. learn the secret to effective business goals. harness the unbelievable power of clarity on demand. discover a simple method to stop managing time and start managing energy. develop a relentless focus on high-leverage activities. raise the lid on your team’s achievement. cut through the noise and focus your business growth efforts. register create a 90-day focus plan™ the focused leader masterclass is about implementation more than anything. once you learn the six leadership lessons for focused achievement, you’ll immediately put them to use with a 90-day focus plan. this is a custom, actionable gameplan to help you and your team achieve your biggest goals in the next 90 days. imagine what you can accomplish from having 90 full days of focused achievement. after just 90 days, you’ll be a different kind of leader. get started for leaders who want to escape overwhelm and enter growth watch video leverage focus to accelerate your leadership six core modules. you don’t have to leave the business for too long to learn this revolutionary framework. upgrade your leadership with just 6 lessons. proprietary tools you can use instantly. with the tangible and practical tools inside the course, you can gain an immediate benefit from this framework as you guide your team to the next level. learn anywhere on any device. your time is limited. you can’t spend time learning from a computer screen. sometimes, the only moments you can afford are when you’re traveling in your care. this is why we’ve made this content for you to consume anywhere and anytime. a 30-day money back guarantee. because we’re so certain this course is an investment in your leadership, we’ve made the focused leader masterclass is 100% risk-free. if you don’t like it within 30 days, you can get a full refund. a repeatable, proven system for growth in any context. once you learn this framework for focus, you’ll have a repeatable system you can implement for achieving growth in your leadership, team, and business time after time. a 90-day focus plan. this plan will help you turn the principles from the masterclass into tangible, action steps for you and your team. register “as a growing leader who is new to leading a team, the focused leader couldn't have come at a better time in my career. the focused leader is a breath of fresh air for sustainable and lasting business growth and professional success. i strongly encourage you to get on this bus!” focused leader alum “not only is the content exciting and relevant, but it’s formatted in a way that allowed me to work through some of the critical issues facing my business and develop solutions that i could immediately put into action.” focused leader alum “the focused leader will help you get on track to set goals that matter and know what you personally need to work on to accomplish more than you could ever imagine.” focused leader alum the focused leader is for... business owners managers, directors, and team leaders c-level executives nonprofits sales representatives ministry leaders entrepreneurs marketing leaders operational leaders ...and anyone who wants to leverage focus to grow their organization. register how to invest in your leadership escape overwhelm and invest in becoming the leader you know you can be. masterclass $597 or $237 for 3 months the complete six module curriculum (audio and video) downloadable workbook eight proprietary tools for implementation access anywhere buy now about michael hyatt as the former ceo of a $250m publicly-held company and the current ceo of a leadership-development company, michael hyatt knows what it’s like to overcome the daily overwhelm and drive major growth. today, he is a new york times bestselling author with a podcast consistently ranked in the top 100 of itunes business and a blog that reaches over 1 million people a month. he is an influential voice on leadership, goal-setting, and productivity—as well as the ceo of his own high-growth organization, which was just named to inc.’s 5000 list. he’s been happily married for over 40 years, with five daughters, three sons-in-law, and nine grandchildren. he has made it his mission to live intentionally in every area of his life. faqs what’s included in the focused leader masterclass? when you register for the focused leader masterclass, you get full access to six core leadership modules that’ll teach you the entire framework for becoming a focused leader. you’ll also receive a workbook with exercises and eight other proprietary tools you can use in your business. the main tool we use is the 90-day focus plan to help focus your leadership and your team to achieve your biggest goals in the next 90 days. where did this framework come from? the focused leader framework was built from the latest discoveries and modern research surrounding productivity, goal-setting, and leadership. tens of thousands of our customers have experienced transformation through these strategies in our past online courses, 5 days to your best year ever and free to focus. not only that, but we use this same framework to build leaders within our company. with the focused leader, we’ve taken only the best of our content, and put it inside this six-part framework. you can trust you’re getting the most updated and ground-breaking content to upgrade your leadership. how is the focused leader different from 5 days to your best year ever and free to focus? the focused leader combines the productivity framework of free to focus and the goal-setting framework of 5 days to your best year ever in a comprehensive and concise achievement system for leaders in the workplace. while free to focus and 5 days to your best year ever were aimed for personal growth, the focused leader aims for growing your leadership so you can raise the lid on your team’s achievement and accelerate the results you want for your business. in short, it’s the best-of leadership in a work setting. what makes the focused leader masterclass different from other leadership development courses? many leadership development courses just teach theory and are nothing more than lengthy information downloads. but, the focused leader is not that. the focused leader aims for implementation. we provide practical tools and actionable strategies to help you apply everything you learn as quickly as possible. inside the masterclass, we have nine proprietary tools we give you. you can use these tools to get your team on the same page, create exciting goals, and lead your organization better than before. what if i’m not a leader? should i get this course? yes. you know why? because you are a leader. you might not have influence in the form of having direct reports. but you have influence—with your co-workers, your family members, and your organization. the focused leader will help you leverage your influence with focus, so you can achieve the results that maximize your potential and give you the results you deserve. also, the fastest way to getting promoted is to be a leader. this course teaches the six game-changing principles you need to be a successful and focused leader. how can i get this purchase reimbursed by my work? the focused leader is the single-best investment you can make in your leadership because it’s fast and effective. your work should be proud to pay for your development. we make this conversation easy for you by providing everyone who completes the course with a course completion certificate. you can present this to your workplace to potentially get reimbursed for your purchase. do you have a refund policy? yes, we have a full 30-day money back guarantee. if you are at all unhappy with the course, just contact our support at focusedleader.com/support. we would be happy to assist you with questions and refund requests. how long will i have access to masterclass? you will have access to the masterclass for one year. however, you can download the workbooks and bonus materials to your local computer. can i buy the masterclass at any time? yes, the focused leader masterclass will remains open for registration all year long. what if i have more questions? we are here to help. simply email us at focusedleader.com/support, and we’ll be happy to assist you. experience what it’s like to be a focused leader the focused leader is designed to take you to the next level in your leadership, so you can deliver the results you know you’re capable of. invest in your leadership today. buy today choose your 1-day intensive: × september 5, 2019 november 12, 2019 get your masterclass invite × © 2020 michael hyatt & company, llc | privacy | terms masterclass | coaching | support | login