engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget master & dynamic mw07 plus buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones master & dynamic mw07 plus reviews / headphones master & dynamic mw07 plus from $299+ $299 buy now share share 86 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 86 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review the original mw07 sounded great, but was plagued by short battery life. with the mw07 plus, master & dynamic addressed that issue by more than doubling the play time. what’s more, the new model offers active noise cancellation to cut down on the ambient roar. read full review pros great sound 10-hour battery life reliable on-board controls noise cancellation cons pricey no audio/control customization no wireless charging reviews 85 average critic score critic reviews 10 70 the verge improved, but at the same high price our biggest complaint about last year's mw07 earbuds was their price, and we argued that even though they provide better sound quality than most of the competition (at least, back in mid-2018), the value just didn't pan out. it might seem puzzling that master & dynamic kept the same price with the mw07 plus, but it considerably fleshed out what’s on offer. read full review 90 appleinsider the best true wireless headphones, but better the battery is massive, the case has a better hinge, calls are clearer with the additional microphones, active noise-cancellation helps drown out external audio, ambient listening mode allows external audio in, supports bluetooth 5, the range has increased to 30m from 20m, and each earbud can now be used by itself. most of these are significant quality of life improvements that make the best truly wireless headphones even better. read full review see all critic reviews 80 average user score user reviews 1 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud channels stereo drivers per ear 1 active noise cancellation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type channels drivers per ear active noise cancellation connections inline controls earbud stereo 1 yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 86 engadget score an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. 86 an all-around great product that's among the best in its category. you'll almost certainly be happy. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 86 critic 10 reviews 85 users 1 reviews 80 user reviews 80 evan good overall headphone. sound quality, battery life, product quality, sound...read more write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr