skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation mateusz rybczonek our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article february 17, 2020 moving from vanilla javascript to a reusable vue component author mateusz rybczonek comments start conversation i recently wrote an article explaining how you can create a countdown timer using html, css and javascript. now, let’s look at how we can make that a reusable component by porting it into vue using basic features that the framework provides. why do this at all? well there are few reasons, but two stand out in particular: keeping ui in sync with the timer state: if you look at the code from the first post, it all lives in the timerinterval function, most noticeably the state management. each time … read article “moving from vanilla javascript to a reusable vue component” vue vue components article february 3, 2020 how to create an animated countdown timer with html, css and javascript author mateusz rybczonek 12 comments join conversation have you ever needed a countdown timer on a project? for something like that, it might be natural to reach for a plugin, but it’s actually a lot more straightforward to make one than you might think and only requires the trifecta of html, css and javascript. let’s make one together!… read article “how to create an animated countdown timer with html, css and javascript” javascript article december 30, 2019 one way to break users out of the habit of reloading too much author mateusz rybczonek 11 comments join conversation page reloads are a thing. sometimes we refresh a page when we think it’s unresponsive, or believe that new content is available. sometimes we’re just mad at the dang site and rage-refresh to let it know we’re displeased. wouldn’t be nice to know when a user refreshes the page? not just that, but how many times? that data can help us trigger some sort of behavior after a certain number of reloads. a sports site is a good example. if … read article “one way to break users out of the habit of reloading too much” javascript vue article december 13, 2019 detecting inactive users author mateusz rybczonek 11 comments join conversation most of the time you don’t really care about whether a user is actively engaged or temporarily inactive on your application. inactive, meaning, perhaps they got up to get a drink of water, or more likely, changed tabs to do something else for a bit. there are situations, though, when tracking the user activity and detecting inactive-ness might be handy. let’s think about few examples when you just might need that functionality: tracking article reading time auto saving form or … read article “detecting inactive users” security vue article november 13, 2019 an early look at the vue 3 composition api in the wild author mateusz rybczonek 7 comments go to comments i recently had an opportunity to try the new vue composition api in a real project to check where it might be useful and how we could use it in the future. until now, when we were creating a new component we were using options api. that api forced us to separate the component’s code by options, meaning that we needed to have all reactive data in one place (data), all computed properties in one place (… read article “an early look at the vue 3 composition api in the wild” composition api vue article august 26, 2019 reusable popovers to add a little pop author mateusz rybczonek 2 comments go to comments a popover is a transient view that shows up on top of a content on the screen when a user clicks on a control button or within a defined area. for example, clicking on an info icon on a specific list item to get the item details. typically, a popover includes an arrow pointing to the location from which it emerged. popovers are great for situations when we want to show a temporary context to get user’s attention when interacting … read article “reusable popovers to add a little pop” popover tooltip vue vue components article april 19, 2019 how to get a progressive web app into the google play store author mateusz rybczonek 16 comments go to comments pwa (progressive web apps) have been with us for some time now. yet, each time i try explaining it to clients, the same question pops up: "will my users be able to install the app using app stores?" the answer has traditionally been no, but this changed with chrome 72 which shipped a new feature called twa (trusted web activities). trusted web activities are a new way to integrate your web-app content such as your pwa with yourandroid app … read article “how to get a progressive web app into the google play store” android app store chrome pwa article march 29, 2019 creating a reusable pagination component in vue author mateusz rybczonek 1 comment go to comments the idea behind most of web applications is to fetch data from the database and present it to the user in the best possible way. when we deal with data there are cases when the best possible way of presentation means creating a list. depending on the amount of data and its content, we may decide to show all content at once (very rarely), or show only a specific part of a bigger data set (more likely). the main reason … read article “creating a reusable pagination component in vue” navigation pagination vue article january 2, 2019 storing and using the last known route in vue author mateusz rybczonek 2 comments go to comments there are situations where keeping a reference to the last route a user visited can come in handy. for example, let’s say we’re working with a multi-step form and the user proceeds from one step to the next. it would be ideal to have the route of that previous step in hand so we know where the user left off, in the event that they navigate away and come back later to complete the form later. we’re going to cover … read article “storing and using the last known route in vue” routing vue vue animations article november 21, 2018 swipeable card stack using vue.js and interact.js author mateusz rybczonek 4 comments go to comments i recently had an opportunity to work on a fantastic research and development project at netguru. the goal of project (codename: "wordguru") was to create a card game that anyone can play with their friends. you can see the outcome here. one element of the development process was to create an interactive card stack. the card stack had a set of requirements, including: it should contain a few cards from the collection. the first card should be interactive. the … read article “swipeable card stack using vue.js and interact.js” vue vue animations 1 2 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers