video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map matthew mccreary entrepreneur staff associate editor, contributed content follow about matthew mccreary matthew mccreary is the associate editor for contributed content at entrepreneur.com. more from matthew mccreary franchises 8 of the best house-maintenance franchises you can buy now the time to start a cleaning company is now. 4 min read franchise 500 the top 20 franchises of 2020 from the entrepreneur franchise 500 these 20 franchises start the new decade atop our franchise 500 list. 10 min read chick-fil-a chick-fil-a makes more per restaurant than mcdonald's, starbucks and subway combined … and it's closed on sundays why a restaurant that's closed on sundays makes more per restaurant than any other fast food restaurant in the country. 3 min read franchise 500 the top children's businesses on the franchise 500 these top-ranked franchises are great for entrepreneurs who love kids. 4 min read franchise 500 the 19 oldest franchises on the franchise 500 these businesses have all been franchising for 60 years or more. 6 min read making money online ways to make money online that seem great but just aren't realistic if your goal is to make money online or generate passive income through the internet, you can do better than trying these popular-but-unrealistic methods. 13 min read franchise 500 the 7 best real-estate franchises of 2020 seven real-estate franchises made our franchise 500 list in 2020. which one was the best? 4 min read chick-fil-a 5 things you need to know before investing in a chick-fil-a franchise first of all, you shouldn't think of getting a chick-fil-a franchise as "investing." 4 min read how to save money 9 ways to save money this year trying to work out how to save money this year? this guide can help. 9 min read interview questions 5 creative interview questions to ask job applicants tired of asking the same boring questions for every interview? these weird interview questions can help you learn who your applicants really are. 7 min read writing a book how to write a book (and actually finish it) in 5 steps this guide offers a roadmap on how to write a book from beginning to end. 15+ min read chris paul chris paul: 'i had $151 in my bank account when i declared for the nba' here's how chris paul has evolved since he stopped splitting the bill at t.g.i. fridays. 12 min read health and fitness businesses 5 of the best fitness franchises you can buy here are five gym and workout businesses that you can invest in. 3 min read starbucks you can't buy a starbucks franchise: here's why and what you can do instead you can't get a starbucks franchise, but you might be able to apply for a licensed store. 6 min read franchise 500 5 affordable franchises you can start for less than $10,000 you don't need to be rich to start your own business. 2 min read 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account