home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degustabox review leyla preston thu 4th jul 2019 2shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degusta box, which features the following brands this month: milkybar® mixups bag, 32.5g – £0.65 daelmans duo stroopwafels – £1.29 hellmann’ vegan mayo – £2.15 splenda sweet minis – £1.50 oteas black tea & apricot – £3.75 – product of the month koko dairy free super milk- £1.99 shore seaweed puffs – £1.19 la gioiosa prosecco brut doc treviso – £3.49 firefly drinks lemon, lime & ginger – £1.55 bravura foods free from fellows – £1.99 fruity beauties organic & fairtrade snack bars – £1.50 indie bay snacks spelt pretzel bites with rock salt – £1 here is the link to the full background of the degusta box and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degusta box-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degusta box/ but, for a quick recap, degusta box is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degusta box by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degusta box here: http://tidd.ly/8f140077 you can stay updated via degusta box’s social networks too: facebook – https://www.facebook.com/degustaboxuk/ twitter – https://twitter.com/degustaboxuk instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degusta box has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in may 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products milkybar® mixups bag 32.5g – £0.65 daelmans duo stroopwafels – £1.29 oteas black tea & apricot – £3.75 – product of the month koko dairy free super milk – £1.99 shore seaweed puffs – £1.19 la gioiosa prosecco brut doc treviso – £3.49 firefly drinks lemon, lime & ginger – £1.55 bravura foods free from fellows – £1.99 fruity beauties organic & fairtrade snack bars – £1.50 indie bay snacks spelt pretzel bites with rock salt – £1 what did i like most about may 2019’s degusta box? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (8 years old) aidan (7 years old) what’s in may 2019’s degusta box? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degusta box below: products milkybar® mixups bag 32.5g – £0.65 “milkybar® mix-ups is here! an exciting mix of milkybar® white chocolate buttons with a cocoa filling and milk chocolate buttons with a milky filling. our milkybar® mix-ups are available in bags of different sizes. *you should receive two in your box. available in major supermarkets and independent shops.” our opinion – these are absolutely delicious and snack-sized, so perfect as little treats for kids. they are so moreish too it’s hard to stop at one packet! 5/5 daelmans duo stroopwafels – £1.29 “daelmans (est. 1909) original dutch stroopwafels. a tasty waffle and subtle caramel filling, made from the finest ingredients. the delicious treat with coffee, tea or just in between. *available at tesco, sainsbury’s, morrisons, co-op or www.stroopwafels.com” our opinion – my sister has moved to amsterdam so when she visits us she brings back the genuine dutch made stroopwafels. these are the real deal and when you place them on top of your cup of something hot, the caramel oozes out of them and they raise the level of tasty snacks! super sweet and probably not good for the sugar levels, but sometimes, you have to enjoy a delicious biscuit with your cuppa. stroopwafels are the way to go! 5/5 oteas black tea & apricot – £3.75 – product of the month “this black tea with apricot is infused with sweet and nutty apricots to create a light fruity beverage. using only high-quality black tea and apricot pieces responsibly sourced, all delivered in a fully biodegradable bag. enjoy many of our teas hot or cold.” our opinion – i can’t try this tea at the moment because i am pregnant, but i offered it to a friend and asked her to rate what she thought of it. she said that she could taste the infusion of apricot, and it would make for a nice cup of black tea on occasion. i can’t wait to try it myself – i am a fierce tea lover, but i have to resort to decaf tea at the moment 4/5 koko dairy free super milk – £1.99 “koko dairy free super milk is enriched with nine key vitamins and minerals, offering especially boosted nutrition for all ages from toddlers to seniors. it provides more nutrients than any regular plant or dairy milk! with a creamy, full-bodied taste, it’s delicious to use as a full-fat milk replacement. *available at tesco, sainsbury’s, morrisons, waitrose, ocado, co-op.” our opinion – these were absolutely delicious and if the boys didn’t drink milk like water and this koko dairy free milk wasn’t as expensive, i would replace the milk in the fridge with this brand. i love it! the milk almost tastes like a milkshake. i’d love to try frothing this milk in my coffee machine and see how it comes out. 5/5 shore seaweed puffs – £1.19 “‘shore takes super healthy seaweed and makes nutritious and tasty vegan snacks. shore seaweed puffs are a deliciously crunchy, unami filled savoury snack that’s packed with good for you nutrition and all for unde 100 calories per bag and available in 4 fantastic flavours. *you should receive 1 of 4 flavours in your box. available online at ocado, wholefoods & as nature intended stores.” our opinion – these seaweeds puffs are light and full of flavour. the boys weren’t too enthusiastic about these, but i loved them and would love to fit one in my bag for when i feel peckish. sweet & smoky was lovely! 4/5 la gioiosa prosecco brut doc treviso – £3.49 “family-owned la gioiosa is one of italy’s leading prosecco producers. based in treviso in the heart of ‘prosecco country’, it produces quality wines. its name pays tribute to the old definition of the treviso province, ‘marc gioiosa at amorosa’ (joyous and amorous march) underlining the sociable italian way of life. *available at ocado, budgens, mccolls, nisa locally, costcutter.” our opinion – i didn’t try this prosecco as i am pregnant, but my husband did, and he said it tastes like a nice quality bottle of prosecco. he is not a fan of fizzy alcohol, but he would understand why others would like this as a favourable bottle of prosecco. 3.5/5 firefly drinks lemon, lime & ginger – £1.55 “our revitalising botanical drinks are expertly crafted from still water, fruit juice and active botanicals for the perfect blend of flavour and refreshment. we never add anything nasty – all our drinks contain naturally occurring sugars, no colours or preservatives and are vegan-friendly. simply sit, sip and smile! *available at waitrose and ocado.” our opinion – i love anything vegan, natural and full of lemon and lime, so i found this drink super delicious. the spice from the ginger complemented the lemon and lime and if drunk ice cold, this is would be a great refreshing drink for the summer. 5/5 bravura foods free from fellows – £1.99 “free from fellows vegan midget gems are made with a delicious twist – they are made without sugar, gluten, gelatine and dairy! these products are suitable for vegans and vegetarians. they are also egg free, soy free, gmo-free, nut free, and are free from artificial flavours and colours. * available at ocado, boots, sainsbury’s, holland & barrett, morrison’s and all leading health food stores.” our opinion – these midget gems (which taste like wine gums) are free from everything! i am surprised that bravura foods managed to keep them so sweet and tasty. perfect for people with religious preferences/allergies. 4/5 fruity beauties organic & fairtrade snack bars – £1.50 “fruity beauties are on a mission to provide a fun and nutritious burst of life. our delicious fairtrade and organic bars are high in fibre and one of your five-a-day. positively juicy, these bars are traceable farm to fork and promote sustainability. great for tea breaks and lunch boxes alike! *available at ocado and via direct contact.” our opinion – i love providing my boys with healthy sweet snacks after school, and these were great. the boys commented that they tasted sweet and delicious, and they wanted to come back for more. the fruity beauties are quite expensive at £1.50, so i probably wouldn’t buy these again. but i do love that there is more focus on kids’ healthy snacks rather than the high sugar, high-fat chocolate/sweet snacks that are so readily available in the shops now. 3.5/5 indie bay snacks spelt pretzel bites with rock salt – £1 “indie bay snacks have reinvented the classic pretzel, using new ingredients and processes to create a snack with benefits. the crunchy, delicious pearls are sources of protein and fibre that contain fewer than 100 calories per portion, and they’re vegan too! *you should receive two items in your box. available at sainsbury’s, ocado, amazon & others.” our opinion – these were simple, slightly salted pretzel snacks which tasted delicious, but they gave me a dry mouth. they’re great snacks, but be prepared to feel very thirsty afterwards! what did i like most about may 2019’s degusta box? it was great to see healthier alternatives to sugary snacks, and i loved koko dairy free milk. i hope it’s easily accessible in the shops! rating: 4 out of 5 – great mixed bag of ingredients, which i’d love to try again! leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustaboxfood and drinkfood boxfood deliveryfood products related posts motherhood diaries bakes with betty croc... may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... august 2014 – degustabox product r... october 2014 – degustabox product review... june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... september 2015 – degustabox produc... may 2014 – degustabox product revi... degustabox review plus competition/givea... august 2017 degustabox review november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... january 2019 degustabox review july summer 2017 degustabox review how to make the most of the blackberry s... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... january 2016 – degustabox product ... september 2014 – degustabox produc... february 2020 degusta box review – easte... bengal chicken curry oxo good grips 3-piece berries bowl ... december 2018 degustabox review may picnic 2017 degustabox review october 2017 degustabox review january 2018 degustabox review june 2014 – degustabox product rev... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... july 2016 – degustabox review june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok