home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product review leyla preston wed 27th jun 2018 0shares share tweet pin world cup is here, and hasn’t it been amazing so far! (c’mon england!) and, to celebrate the long-awaited world cup, degustabox sent us a world cup inspired box of edible goodies, featuring the following brands: say aloe – reduced sugar – £1.49 cirio – pasta sauce – £2.00 kitkat – bites white – £1.59 brioche pasquier – pitch – 2 x £1.39 santa maria latin american kitchen – caribbean creamy chicken curry seasoning mix – £1.00 – mini coconut & black pepper soft tortillas – £1.50 joe and seph’s – gourmet popcorn – £1.00 kitkat – senses mix – £3.99 lucozade energy – original – £1.10 we made – lemonade – £1.50 here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.99 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers can receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in may 2018’s world cup degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products say aloe – reduced sugar – £1.49 kitkat – bites white – £1.59 brioche pasquier – pitch – 2 x £1.39 santa maria latin american kitchen – caribbean creamy chicken curry seasoning mix – £1.00 – mini coconut & black pepper soft tortillas – £1.50 kitkat – senses mix – £3.99 lucozade energy – original – £1.10 we made – lemonade – £1.50 what did i like most about may 2018’s world cup degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (7 years old) aidan (6 years old) what’s in may 2018’s world cup degustabox? motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products say aloe – reduced sugar – £1.49 “say aloe isn’t your average drink. real pieces of aloe vera give the drink its unique texture, and its clean and refreshing flavour makes it deliciously different refreshment. say aloe is also rich in vitamin c with no artificial flavours or colours, so why not go on and hydrate yourself!” one of two flavours is included in each degustabox. our opinion – say aloe is a lovely refreshing drink that tastes authentic because of the little aloe vera bits that are left inside the bottle. it’s not too sweet too, so you don’t feel like you’re drinking something that will rot your teeth. 4/5 kitkat – bites white – £1.59 “mini crispy wafer fingers coated in a thick layer of white chocolate. perfect to share with others, with a movie or as a treat!” our opinion –these were dangerously moreish and very tasty. i’m not a huge fan of white chocolate, but these bite-sized sharing pieces were great to hand around and enjoy with the whole family. we finished them so quickly! 4/5 brioche pasquier – pitch – 2 x £1.39 “pitch is a delicious, soft brioche roll with a generous amount of dark chocolate chips or chocolate filling. they are free from preservatives and artificial colours. our pitch are individually wrapped making them great for lunch boxes, sports, car journeys and much more! loved by kids but enjoyed by all.” our opinion – we are a family of pasquier lovers and these world cup inspired pitch brioche rolls are filled with chocolate filling, that oozes out when you bite into the roll – and they are ridiculously tasty! these were the boys’ favourite and they haven’t stopped begging me to buy some more. 5/5 santa maria latin american kitchen – caribbean creamy chicken curry seasoning mix – £1.00 – mini coconut & black pepper soft tortillas – £1.50 “caribbean fare is a melting pot of cuisines and a food lover’s paradise. our seasoning mix is inspired by indo-caribbean food and, with its mild curry flavour, goes perfectly with chicken and cream. alternatively, use with vegetables and coconut milk to suit vegan, vegetarian and lactose-free diets. soft & flavoured 6′ wheat flour tortillas. these irresistible little tortillas are deliciously flavoured with coconut, lime and black pepper – all typical caribbean ingredients. the slightly sweet flavour or coconut and the tanginess of the lime make it perfect to fill with flavour-intense or spicy food.” our opinion – hubby thought it was a great idea to take these combos to work with his pre-cooked chicken and told me that these tortillas were the best he’d ever tasted – they were soft, rich in flavour and very tasty. he really liked the seasoning too, which is vegan and lactose-free, so everyone can enjoy. 4/5 kitkat – senses mix – £3.99 “made to share, our mixed box of kitkat® senses includes all three deliciously indulgent flavours: salted caramel, double chocolate and hazelnut. lift the lid to reveal a pop open box designed for sharing, full of individually wrapped indulgent treats – with something for everyone to enjoy!” our opinion – i have always loved kitkats, but wow, how do you make something great, even better? add bite-sized kitkats in a fancy box and add three delicious flavours; salted caramel, double chocolate and hazelnut! the hazelnut version was my favourite, but the boys really took to the salted caramel. everyone loved the double chocolate and the box was finished within minutes – shame 5/5 lucozade energy – original – £1.10 “discover the great taste of lucozade energy original in the moment when you need it most! whatever your day may hold, remember your energy beats everything! lucozade energy is best served chilled, so put your bottle in the fridge for maximum great taste!” our opinion – i don’t like lucozade, i always found the taste bitter and it would trigger off my gag reflex. but my husband is a lucozade fiend and regularly enjoys a bottle before his workout, so he’d give his staple drink a 5/5 for sure! 5/5 we made – lemonade – £1.50 “our refreshingly non-carbonated drinks contain absolutely no artificial flavours, additives, preservatives or refined sugar! unlike many other drinks today, our drinks offer a refreshing and genuinely strong flavour without being packed with a whole bunch of artificial nonsense.” *one of two flavours is included in the non-alcohol version of the degustabox. our opinion – this was a lovely sweet drink which tasted quite refreshing and packed a real punch. you could taste the natural flavour without the overpowering sugary taste that comes with these types of juice drinks 4/5 what did i like most about may 2018’s world cup degustabox? it was a unanimous vote for the kitkat senses. the high-quality box was well thought out and the three flavours were simply delicious and bite-sized enough to enjoy one at a time, not that we ate the kitkats slowly – they were gone within minutes. these kitkat senses would make perfect gifts for friends and family. rating: 4.5 out of 5 – a very impressive box this month – i loved the world cup theme and the sweet editions, even though i do regularly call for non-sugary items. sometimes it’s ok to indulge and this month’s box allowed us to do that! never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:degustaboxfood boxfood deliverymd degustabox reviewsproduct reviewworld cup related posts may 2016 – degustabox food box – product... postman pat toys – showbiz pat dol... trunki fin the shark large paddlepak ... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... april 2014 – degustabox product re... 10 items every children’s birthday party... january 2019 degustabox review breathease multi-purpose product review ... yamaha arius ydp-s34 digital piano revie... how clean is the air we breathe at home?... may 2019 brunch and afternoon tea degust... pancake day oxo challenge – plus oxo goo... pabobo dream theater product review and ... chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... september 2015 – degustabox produc... buriti baby body butter review january healthy box 2015 – degusta... ella’s kitchen little big meals and gree... cakes by robin – thomas celebration cake... how ecover washing up liquid can clean b... july 2016 – degustabox review june 2017 bbq degustabox review january 2018 degustabox review barbecue party theme with just catering ... july summer 2017 degustabox review bengal chicken curry degustabox review plus competition/givea... olly the white van book series product r... heavenly blue callisto cybex buggy produ... october 2017 degustabox review about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok