home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home best education and technology videos mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource by kelly walsh - june 20, 2017 23 share facebook twitter what you need to know to create the best videos for learning one of the many great sessions i attended last week at ubtech 2017 was brian klaas's “spielberg not shakespeare: what we can learn from youtube when flipping classrooms”. klaas is senior technical officer at johns hopkins bloomberg school of public health. i've seen klaas speak before, he is an engaging, dynamic presenters. he is an avid fan of mayer's 12 principles of multimedia learning, and he very successfully walks the walk in his own presentations. one interesting thing about these principles is their applicability over the long haul. while education's growing use of technology as an instructional aid calls for the use of guiding constructs like these more than ever, these fundamental principles were published back 2001 and it's a safe bet that they will remain relevant for decades to come. here are mayer's principles: coherence principle – people learn better when extraneous words, pictures and sounds are excluded rather than included. signaling principle – people learn better when cues that highlight the organization of the essential material are added. redundancy principle – people learn better from graphics and narration than from graphics, narration and on-screen text. spatial contiguity principle – people learn better when corresponding words and pictures are presented near rather than far from each other on the page or screen. temporal contiguity principle – people learn better when corresponding words and pictures are presented simultaneously rather than successively. segmenting principle – people learn better from a multimedia lesson is presented in user-paced segments rather than as a continuous unit. pre-training principle – people learn better from a multimedia lesson when they know the names and characteristics of the main concepts. modality principle – people learn better from graphics and narrations than from animation and on-screen text. multimedia principle – people learn better from words and pictures than from words alone. personalization principle – people learn better from multimedia lessons when words are in conversational style rather than formal style. voice principle – people learn better when the narration in multimedia lessons is spoken in a friendly human voice rather than a machine voice. image principle – people do not necessarily learn better from a multimedia lesson when the speaker’s image is added to the screen. let's look at how some of these principles relate to truly effective learning content. coherence the best learning materials limit extraneous content. it doesn't help. keep it simple. think of the many ridiculously dense, loud, cluttered slides you've seen from time to time. it's very hard to learn from content like that. this page contains a couple good examples of violations of the coherence principle. contiguity the two contiguity principles inform us that people learn better when corresponding words and pictures are presented near rather than far from each other on the page or screen, and when corresponding words and pictures are presented simultaneously rather than successively. i borrowed this image from this site – this is a great example of the contiguity principles in action: segmenting this principle tells us to break things into user-paced segments. an excellent application of this principle when it comes to video to create multiple short videos rather than one long one. multimedia words and pictures together are better than words or pictures alone (but, following the other principles, keep it simple). klaas illustrated this with simple elegance by showing a the word circle, then a separate picture of a circle, followed by a picture of a circle with the word “circle” on the some slide. it was quite obvious that the latter slide provided the best learning experience. signaling when i first read this principle, it reminded me of the first part of the three part adage, “tell them what you are going to teach them, then teach them, then tell them what you taught them”. however, the video below, from sarah martin, gives a different perspective to signaling (i suppose both of these ideas are essentially signaling, i.e. reminding the learner what to expect and pay extra attention to). so that's a quick look at some of these powerful principles from mayer. i look forward to exploring them further in future articles, and to applying them in content i create from this day forward. for a deeper dive into mayer's principle, you can consider buying or renting the book. it is expensive it print format, but i found it available for rent in digital format on amazon for $13.44. related posts the flipped classroom, formalized education and the vernacular of teaching january's favorite education and instructional technology youtube videos 3 great reasons why you should attend flipcon 2016! edpuzzle 3 minute tool-torial: add questions to videos, monitor progress share facebook twitter tweet previous articlecome explore the flipped learning network podcast: ask the fln next articleteaching iot (internet of things) in our courses and classrooms kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 23 comments 12 building blocks to use learning technologies effectively – building block 4: combine words and visuals. – 3-star learning experiences march 23, 2020 at 3:01 am […] website explains the multimedia principles, which also apply to one of the most widely used (and probably […] design process & principles: the what & why… – let’s talk education february 14, 2020 at 12:27 am […] walsh, k. (2017, june). mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource. emergingedtech. retrieved from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/06/mayers-12-principles-of-multimedia-learning-are-a-powerful-de&#8230; […] 2019 emergingedtech year in review: your faves & my faves | emerging education technologies december 30, 2019 at 11:24 am […] mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource […] saj real october 29, 2019 at 7:49 am wow this is a great resource.. i’m enjoying it.. good article kelly walsh september 28, 2019 at 9:39 am thanks jerson – i can find references that use the language i have quoted and the language you quoted, so i am not sure which is correct. jerson campos september 25, 2019 at 2:55 pm number 8 is incorrect. it should be ” modality principle – people learn better when words are presented as narration rather than as on-screen text. also i have a video you can use for the redundancy principle located here. http://visual-e-learning.com/project/redundancy-principle/ outlook september 20, 2019 at 7:08 am thanks for your great information. developing effective digital learning content: text or speech, not both at same time | emerging education technologies july 16, 2019 at 6:55 am […] mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource […] gmail öffnen july 9, 2019 at 2:32 am thanks for your great information, kelly walsh may 15, 2019 at 8:00 am thanks richard. google’s advances with ar development are certainly exciting. i don’t know that i see this to be quite as impactful as you do, but i do look forward to seeing ar adoption increase in the education world, delivering advances in engaging and powerful learning content. richard may 15, 2019 at 1:44 am these are going to be very interesting trends. i think it will be interesting to see what 5g does to bring streamed multimedia learning to more people. google recently announced they are bringing ar to search. this is something i think will have a huge impact on education. i wrote a post about it https://www.theschoolbell.net/google-as-a-mooc i think the fact that it appears realistic instead of a flat image or video means that it will change the way reviews and learns. ser vs estar – learn spanish january 14, 2019 at 8:51 pm […] walsh, k. (2018, july 4). mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource | emerging education technologies. retrieved from https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/06/mayers-12-principles-of-multimedia-learning-are-a-powerful-de&#8230; […] happy wheels october 9, 2018 at 10:39 pm great article. thanks for posting it. keep uploading. norton setup september 29, 2018 at 4:48 am great post and also very interesting. thanks for sharing. kelly walsh july 4, 2018 at 6:40 am sorry about that luke – looks like ub took the link to the session info down, so i have removed the link now. luke july 3, 2018 at 2:53 pm hello the link at the top of the article is not working, can you edit it? thanks usps tracking may 20, 2018 at 8:55 pm i would like to read more of your posts. very nice post thank you for sharing kelly walsh february 23, 2018 at 10:54 am hi marco – fascinating question. of course, i do not pretend to be an expert in multimedia learning – i simply shared this resource. i am rather fascinated by it, partly because some of the advice seems possibly counterintuitive (at least to my frame of reference). i have to imagine that the use of a digital “agent” in place of a picture or video of the speaker still falls under the image principle, but at the same time it seems to crossover into other principles, like 3, 5, and 8. i often see videos with animated “talking heads” (like those created in powtoon) that provide both audio and text versions of their content at the same time, which would seem helpful, but also runs up against the redundancy principle and the modality principle. another technology challenge that runs headlong against some of the advice offered by the multimedia learning theory is assessibility – when we add text and voice, we are helping to ensure that those with hearing or vision problems can consume the content, but multimedia learning theory tells us not to do this. i guess ideally turning on text accompaniment should be an option (and there are browser add-ins and other techhnologies that can help accomodate that). like i said – fascinating question! marco zuppone february 23, 2018 at 9:58 am nice article. i’m wondering if the image principle is still valid or not. i searched about that in the 2016 edition of the book “e-learning and the science of instruction”. the book talks about ”agents”, and there are some considerations about how they should be (human vs cartoons, realistic vs fictional) and how they should speak and behave. i was not able to extrapolate a definite answer about the topic anyway. can you shed some light on this topic, please? regards, marco zuppone learning design theories and practices for pms, designers and developers | junsong zhang, med, mdm january 8, 2018 at 2:53 am […] 12 principles of multimedia learning as a powerful design resources […] recording voice overs with audacity – lindsay o'neill december 20, 2017 at 4:15 pm […] it’s science! let’s talk about two of my favorite multimedia principles: the modality principle and the redundancy principle. according to the modality principle, your […] william august 22, 2017 at 5:51 pm great article …thanks for your great information, the contents are quiet interesting. thank you so much for sharing your important post. mis favoritos del mes - ined21 july 1, 2017 at 1:00 am […] emergingedtech. “mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource” … (inglés) […] leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©