/ rob beschizza / 7:47 am fri mar 27, 2020 mayor: first u.s. teenager to die of coronavirus was denied treatment because he didn't have health insurance follow us twitter / facebook / rss matt novak reports that the first teenager to die in the u.s. from covid-19 coronavirus infection was uninsured and denied treatment at the urgent care clinic he tried to check into. they told him to go to another hospital; he went into cardiac arrest on the way. a 17-year-old boy in los angeles county who became the first teen believed to have died from complications with covid-19 in the u.s. was denied treatment at an urgent care clinic because he didn’t have health insurance. ... “he didn’t have insurance, so they did not treat him,” [r. rex] parris said in a video posted to youtube. the staff at the urgent care facility told the teen to try the emergency room at antelope valley (av) hospital, a public hospital in the area, according to the mayor. parris is the mayor of lancaster, california. from the transcript of his remarks: "the friday before he died he was healthy. he was he was socializing with his friends. by wednesday he was dead. he had gone to an urgent care for an hmo he didn't have insurance so they did not treat him and sent him to av (antelope valley) hospital. en route to hospital he went into cardiac arrest. when he got to av hospital they were able to revive him and keep him alive for about six hours but by the time he got there it was too late" share / tweet / 55 comments coronavirus get the boing boing newsletter coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest watch white house coronavirus official dr. birx suck up to dear leader obsequiously “[trump is] so attentive to the scientific literature & the details & the data. i think his ability to analyze & integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit.” read the rest americans are coronavirus panic-buying spiral hams and oatmilk this right here is some seriously weird data from nielsen today, about the sorts of things americans have been purchasing as the coronavirus outbreak, and corresponding fear, spread. read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support