menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “meaning & passion” when you want to make progress fast and feel impatient by megan schowalter “tortoise was over the line. after that, hare always reminded himself, ‘don’t brag about your lightning pace, for slow and steady won the race!‘“ ~the tortoise and the hare (aesop’s fables) i was sitting in an introduction to calligraphy workshop … the 3 most important questions to ask yourself every day by brendan baker “at the end of life, our questions are very simple: did i live fully? did i love well?” ~jack kornfield when i was seven years old, i almost died. my family and i were at central station in sydney, australia … if you think reaching your goal will make you happy… by james kane the path is the goal. the process is more important than the result. life is a journey, not a destination. there are three very common, some might say cheesy and clichéd sayings you may hear when it comes to taking … 20 life-changing tools, 95% off—one week, starting today by lori deschene first things first, happy 2020! it’s a new year, filled with promise and possibility. if last year was tough for you, it’s now in the rearview mirror. if it was full of blessings and opportunities, you’re likely excited to see … 12 habits to adopt to make this your best year yet by lori deschene many of us head into the new year with big goals and ambitions. we think about everything that seems to be lacking in our lives and imagine ourselves far happier and more fulfilled on the other side of massive change.… 4 sensitive superpowers that can change your life (and the world) by danielle heyns “you were born to be among the advisors and thinkers, the spiritual and moral leaders for your society. there is every reason for pride.” ~elaine n. aron stop being so sensitive. lighten up. you’re oversensitive. stop overthinking. you’re weird.… what to do if you want more purpose, passion, and meaning by heather moulder “i don’t believe people are looking for the meaning of life as much as they are looking for the experience of being alive.” ~joseph campbell do you ever feel like there’s got to be more to life? more purpose, passion, … how to reap the benefits of post-traumatic growth by harriet cabelly “the world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong in the broken places.” ~hemingway we all know of post-traumatic stress (pts) but how many of us know of post-traumatic growth (ptg), a very hopeful and attainable way of life beyond … finding the courage to go after what you want out of life by grete howland “just because you’re not doing what other people are doing, that doesn’t mean you’re failing or falling behind. you’re charting your own course and staying true to yourself, even though it would be easier to join the crowd. you’re creating … how letting go of the need to be special changed my life by hailey magee “our society has become a conspiracy against joy. it has put too much emphasis on the individuating part of our consciousness—individual reason—and too little emphasis on the bounding parts of our consciousness, the heart and soul.” ~david brooks when i … everything seems to be falling apart… because it is by anonymous “a bird sitting on a tree is never afraid of the branch breaking, because its trust is not on the branch, but in its own wings. always believe in yourself.” ~unknown if you’ve ever stopped and thought, “what the hell … what helped me reclaim the creativity i loved as a kid by nadia colburn “absolute attention is an act of generosity.” ~simone weil when i was a child, i used to write poems as presents for my parents on birthdays and holidays. i’d sit quietly and think of what i wanted to say. then … what i did when i felt lost and purposeless by lizzy dean “a good traveler has no fixed plans and is not intent on arriving.” ~lao tzu about a year ago, i came across an e-course titled “find your purpose in 15 minutes.” i found this course during a time when … how to live a life you love (even if others doubt you) by camilla hallstrom “not all those who wander are lost.” ~j.r.r. tolkien i will always remember those words. i had just decided to ditch my old life. instead of pursuing a cushy career as a lawyer, i wanted to create a business as … it’s not selfish to want to thrive, and i now know i deserve it by arielle tuzon “to create more positive results in your life, replace ‘if only’ with ‘next time.” ~celestine chua i’m twenty-nine-and-a-half and i’ve finally committed to pursuing my dreams of becoming a singer/musician/songwriter, actress, and screenwriter. but most importantly, i finally feel allowed … it’s more important to be authentic than impressive by clarabel sage “the most fundamental harm we can do to ourselves is to remain ignorant by not having the courage to look at ourselves honestly and gently.” ~pema chödrön all my life i’ve chased after success, as i was encouraged to do … never forget that you have the power to choose by leslie ralph “if we are peaceful, if we are happy, we can smile, and everyone in our family, our entire society, will benefit from our peace.” ~thich nhat hanh dedicate today to the power of choice. your choice. you can’t choose everything … how to free yourself from the burden of your potential by abby krom “changing directions in life is not tragic. losing passion in life is.” we all have natural talents, and in some cases, we may have devoted years to honing our skills and turning them into a career. as we’re on the … why my passion died when i was living the dream by jessi frey “do whatever brings you to life, then. follow your own fascinations, obsessions, and compulsions. trust them. create whatever causes a revolution in your heart.” ~elizabeth gilbert in my twenties i achieved what many young musicians dream of. i got … when you’ve lost your passion for that thing you once loved by jamie haas powell “do it with passion or not at all.” ~rosa couchette carey if you’ve ever had a passion for something, you are probably well aware of the peaks and valleys that are natural side effects of pursuing the thing you love … page 1 of 2512345...1020...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top