advertise@smallbiztrends.com home overview audience advertising sponsorships testimonials case studies contact menu home overview audience advertising sponsorships testimonials case studies contact publish your content on our site. distribute your ebook to our audience. capture leads. the possibilities are endless. content syndication place your content in front of our small business audience by syndicating your existing published content on small business trend magazine advertising reach a dual audience on flipboard by advertising in our small business magazine. full edition sponsorship’s also available. native ads drive direct traffic to your website or chosen landing page. great for webinar and conference registrations. sponsored articles sponsor a series of articles on a topic relevant to your business. can include sponsorship of the small biz spotlight series or 1-on-1 interview series. ebook distribution let us do the work for you. distribute your ebook to our audience and gather leads from an engaged community of entrepreneurs and business owners. custom campaigns create a tailored campaign to fit your needs. our team is happy to innovate with you to help you achieve your marketing goals. when failure is not an option, committed small business people visit and subscribe to get “small business success… delivered daily” from small business trends. editorial features we offer over 23,000 informative, often in-depth, pages of content directed toward a small business audience. each piece is characterized by authenticity, professionalism and usefulness. from startup advice and business ideas, to guides on how to get a loan or tax help, we provide a full range of information that a small business owner needs. some of our specific features include the following. wisdom news information small business spotlight from one business owner to another. each spotlight is a behind-the-scenes look at a real small business. includes quick-take lessons they share with peers. small business news coverage of the latest news and live events. if it affects small businesses, we cover it. our experienced journalists get the facts and put the news in context. product reviews – will it work for you? reviews of the latest products, gadgets, software and services for small businesses. our reviewers rate them from 1 to 5 stars. practical wisdom small business trends delivers a lifetime of practical advice for main street businesses. tips, how-to’s and authoritative insights from subject matter experts. you’re invited a relevant curated list of conferences, webinars, networking events, awards and contests for small businesses — our public community calendar. updated daily. books, books and more books our professional reviewers size up the content, freshness and usefulness of books for business owners, managers and entrepreneurs. we rate them 1 to 5 stars. 1-on-1 interviews the most influential senior executives — from silicon valley to new york — share insights on technology and innovation in our exclusive q&a interviews. everyone is talking about it we keep tabs on the latest trends in small business … from social media phenomena to entrepreneurial lifestyle to product launches, tools and more. educational guides in-depth informative guides on subjects relating to how to start, run and grow a business. the above editorial features can be made available as sponsored content or sponsored sections. contact us. testimonials as a small business marketing expert and ceo of constant contact, i relied on small business trends as my go-to resource for what’s happening in the marketplace. they cut through the noise and spin to keep small businesses informed. gail goodmanformer ceo, constant contact the performance was awesome, and we really appreciate your service. this was a big win for the client. paypal campaignmedia planner i turn to small business trends on a daily basis to learn about new technology, new ideas and trends in the small business world. there is no place else i need to go. small business trends has it all. rohit aroraceo, biz2credit.com i was delighted when i was nominated for the small business influencer awards and after seeing the amazing list didn't expect it to go any further. i'm honored that not only was i voted for by friends, but that a third party panel looked into what i do and found that to be valuable in the small business industry. michelle mcculloughmanaging director, startup princess small business trends co-marketed a webinar with us that resulted in thousands of registrants. they put it on the home page, co-promoted and gave tremendous exposure to our company. anita campbell was a great moderator -- very professional and got a great response. rohit aroraceo, biz2credit.com previous next audience demographics business size industry decision makers demographics business size small business trends draws a targeted small business audience industry the small business audience by industry decision makers audience: decision makers demographics audience demographics reporting and analytics tap into real time reports and analytics for content and native ad campaigns. see how well your native ads and sponsored content are performing across the site. self-serve. available online 24/7. contact us for a demo. community metrics traffic community engagement key metrics traffic a thriving community of entrepreneurs, owners and managers who visit regularly and engage community engagement engaged readers and active social sharing key metrics key metrics a little bit about us ... small business trends, llc was founded in 2003 with the belief that startup entrepreneurs, business owners and the managers who work for them should have access to the latest information, news and insights presented in a way that is relevant to them. anchored by the flagship small business trends website, the company includes a digital magazine and active outreach on social media channels. we are laser focused on small businesses — from one person starting up in a garage, to businesses with up to 100 employees. we report information in context. our dedicated team of nationally-renowned columnists, editors with deep news experience, subject matter experts and staff journalists give insights that make news meaningful. we show “how to.” we don’t just report on the what and why. we publish detailed guides, checklists, tips and tutorials. we also highlight valuable resources and tools. we believe authenticity is crucial. we deliver information through the informed lens of a team that is itself a small business. bootstrapped by noted small business expert anita campbell, the site is dedicated to serving small businesses. we stay true to our large and targeted audience. small business trends, llc directly reaches more than 2 million small business owners, entrepreneurs and other decision makers monthly. our readership is highly targeted because we cover only relevant business topics. through active participation in social media, we have social reach and exposure to 3 million more monthly. small business trends includes multiple properties: small business trends: flagship daily information and advice site digital magazine: packed with useful how-to’s and insights bizsugar: community site; members share their informative content our mission remain the ultimate resource for main-street small business past sponsors include ... previous next content syndication place your previously published content in front of our audience. showcase your product or service. promote your best stuff. native ads drive direct traffic to targeted content on your site. increase event registrations. gain brand visibility. previous next sponsored articles speak directly to a small business audience. showcase your brand. demonstrate thought leadership. previous next ebook distribution promote your ebook. collect leads. achieve your marketing goals. custom campaigns work with our sales team to create a custom campaign in a variety of formats to suit your needs. contact us or email us: advertise@smallbiztrends.com home overview audience advertising sponsorships testimonials case studies contact menu home overview audience advertising sponsorships testimonials case studies contact © copyright 2020 small business trends, llc – all rights reserved