u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost media. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition media coronavirus pandemic fears and facts: views from huffpost readers our editors have picked some of your most thought-provoking comments from last week’s top stories. by huffpost editors the coronavirus pandemic is hammering local journalism reporters from alt-weeklies and local newspapers are trying to cover a crisis that is causing layoffs and closures across the industry. by travis waldron and tara golshan life in the era of the coronavirus: views from huffpost readers our editors have picked some of your most thought-provoking comments from last week’s top stories. by huffpost editors coronavirus, nero meme and sex addict: views from huffpost readers our editors scoured top stories to highlight some of the most thought-provoking comments. by huffpost editors trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad tucker carlson breaks from fox news coronavirus coverage: ‘it’s definitely not just the flu’ the host appeared to give an indirect jab at trump and his own network, criticizing those who "spent weeks minimizing what is clearly a very serious problem." by sanjana karanth aoc, garth brooks’s shirt and preparing for a pandemic: views from huffpost readers our editors scoured top stories to highlight some of the most thought-provoking comments. by huffpost editors newsletter sign up wondering what to watch tonight? subscribe to our streamline email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. '80s comedy relic bill maher goes on sexist rant in support of chris matthews “guys are married for a million years, they want to flirt for two seconds," he said, excusing matthews' creepy comments. by sara boboltz lydia polgreen to step down as editor-in-chief of huffpost after more than three years at huffpost, polgreen is leaving to be the head of content at gimlet. by lydia o'connor trump gripes about fox news on fox news the president said the network hurts itself by allowing on guests who say "very, very false things." by josephine harvey jury orders tavis smiley to pay pbs $1.65 million in #metoo dispute the network fired the former talk show host after it received multiple, credible allegations of sexual misconduct. by colleen young, ap visibly stunned steve kornacki takes over on-air after chris matthews resigns the msnbc journalist took over the rest of the hour after the "hardball" host announced his resignation. by josephine harvey cbs news’ '60 minutes’ blasted over ‘war criminal puff piece’ on eddie gallagher "what is wrong with you?" journalist soledad o'brien tweeted about the program's coverage of the navy seal. by hayley miller awkward: chris matthews confuses gop sen. tim scott with lindsey graham's dem rival the msnbc host wondered why democrat jamie harrison would be at a trump rally. he was actually seeing a different black politician. by mary papenfuss trump grants clemency, sanders' victory & life at 400+ pounds: views from huffpost readers our editors scoured top stories to highlight some of the most thought-provoking comments. by huffpost editors oops: 'weather wizard' accidentally leaves facebook filter on during newscast justin hinton of wlos in north carolina delivered a memorable forecast. by ed mazza newsletter sign up wondering what to watch tonight? subscribe to our streamline email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost media. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.