start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness communication motivation mental strength advertising meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness barbara grace barbara grace is the director of the school of modern psychology. she believes in living a purposeful life. read full profile share pin it tweet share email many of us know that meditation can be beneficial, but did you know that it is actually one of the most convenient ways to make a drastic improvement to your mental health and physical wellness? practicing mindful meditation is good for more than just peace of mind. it can actually change your life. mindful meditation has the potential to radically transform our everyday experiences. a lot of people would like to make changes to their lives, both big and small. sometimes, this seems like an impossible feat. with meditation, though, it is very possible. imagine making wiser decisions and feeling a deeper sense of peace and happiness. if this were possible, what would it mean for you, your health, your lifestyle, and your relationships? in this guide you’ll discover a straight forward way to understand mindfulness and meditation, know what practicing these techniques can do for you, and find out who benefits most from adopting mindfulness and meditation practices. table of contents tap into the power of your mind to change your life mindfulness' deeper impact overcome challenges of modern-day living with mindfulness 6 steps to train your brain who benefits most from practicing mindfulness and meditation? mindfulness meditation for true happiness tap into the power of your mind to change your life if you want to understand your mind, sit down and observe it. –joseph goldstein many times, the idea of mindfulness evokes mystery and thoughts of saffron robed tibetan monks chanting ‘om’ — ideas that western culture step lightly around. jon kabat-zinn was the first to cleanse mindfulness of its buddhist roots and use it as a tool to help manage stress in a university of massachusetts medical school clinic [1]. here, mindfulness based stress reduction (mbsr), an 8-week program teaching outpatients how to change their relationship with pain after medicine had done all it could, was born. because of the program’s success, hospitals around the world have integrated similar programs. now sanctioned by the medical profession as a tool to ease suffering, we’re experiencing the trickle-down effect as mindfulness enters main stream. mindfulness’ deeper impact while mindfulness is best known as a way to manage stress and pain, it has a deeper impact for anyone aiming to rediscover a lost sense of what it means to know one’s self in a fast-moving world. jack kornfield, mindfulness and meditation teacher and author describes it like this: “mindfulness is not a philosophy or a religion. it’s not a destination. rather, it’s a spirit with which you can travel through life.” why is mindfulness such a big deal? “mindfulness is often spoken of as the heart of buddhist meditation. it’s not about buddhism, but about paying attention. that’s what all meditation is, no matter what tradition or particular technique is used.” jon kabat-zinn if mindfulness is about paying attention, what’s the big deal? the original term ‘mindfulness’ comes from the pali word ‘sati’, which means memory [2] but is more correctly described as ‘lucid awareness’. it’s an embodied state that doesn’t let day-to-day experiences or moments drift away unnoticed. when ‘not noticing’ your mind takes on a life of its own, wandering through old memories, recalling old feelings and ruminating endlessly on ‘what i would have said to … if i had the chance again’. we think without thinking, kidding ourselves we’re focused on what we’re doing. you may be familiar with this state. i certainly am. while reading a book, i can find myself halfway through a chapter, having to start again because my eyes mechanically ‘read’ the text, while my mind drifted elsewhere. or petting the cat absentmindedly while planning the next job only to get a solid nudge from a wet nose to pay more attention to her. or writing this article between cooking, phone calls and checking in on an unwell relative. i laughed at the irony of writing an article on mindfulness while pushing mindlessly ahead with the multiple to-do lists i was juggling. overcome challenges of modern-day living with mindfulness the problem of modern-day living touches us all. with deadlines and time as premium resources, it’s easy to think we can do it all, until our body sends ‘slow down‘ signals. this is where mindfulness can really make an impact. if your body is telling you to slow down, then it may be wise to listen to it. 6 steps to train your brain modern-day living has trained our bodies and minds to be separate entities. it has trained us to ignore body-felt sensations and mindlessly dwell somewhere between the past and future, dismissive of the present moment. it’s as if ‘now’ is something to rush through while getting somewhere else. mindfulness practice aims to help us pay attention, to reunite body and mind through noticing senses, feeling and experiencing moments more fully. it’s about switching off auto-pilot and sitting upright in the driver’s seat again. it’s about quieting the endless chatter that occupies our minds every moment of every day. with a simple sequence, the mindfulness process flows like this: when paying attention be consciously aware of what’s happening around you. using all your senses, not just your preferred sense (usually sight or hearing), note what each sense is perceiving. be enchanted about the experience, not distracted or dismissive. refrain from judging the experience as positive, negative or neutral; instead raise your awareness and conscious presence to any feelings arising in the body. notice whether you’re wanting to avoid any emotion arising because it hurts, or clinging to the outcome as if there’s a dearth of resources to go round. consider your response with wisdom, accepting ‘what is’ with a sense of gratitude. holding back the endless torrent of ‘white noise’ in your mind most mindfulness practices begin with paying attention to your breathing, without aiming to change it, instead simply noticing it. it’s a gentle beginning, yet challenging to maintain. noticing your breath as it moves in, through your body and out again is the beginning of sensory awareness. as you begin, you may notice very little from a sensory level; you may even feel nothing. alternatively, you may experience emotions you’ve not allowed yourself to feel previously. advertising noticing what you’re noticing is the first step. you may also notice how easily your mind gets distracted by an endless torrent of white noise. again, it’s about noticing what you’re noticing without judgement. simply notice the thoughts and let them go. if thoughts return, notice that you’re noticing them, and let them go again. be gentle with yourself. being curious about what you’re noticing while returning to your breath is a strong beginning. you can be mindful where you are right now. noticing. paying attention. being aware of your body’s senses – tight shoulders, pressure of your sitting bones on a chair, clothing touching skin, any scents or smells, the quality of the light, soft sounds barely audible. this is an informal way of being mindful as you go about your day. mindfulness meditation, on the other hand, is a formal way of setting aside a specific time to focus. it’s about setting an intention and a focus for a set period of time. meditation offers the space to move away from the automaticity of thoughts that are often negative and self-defeating. it’s a space to release the process of worry, doubt, fear and anger. meditation offers tools to relax those automatic thoughts. it helps break the illusion of ‘self’ – our ego and sense of identity to which we cling, unaware of a higher level of consciousness available to us if we let go, release attachment and allow a sense of possibility enter. the meditation practice may involve music, prayerful thought or loving kindness to build greater empathy. you may find a guided meditation useful to support you as your mind strengthens its ability to focus without distracting thoughts entering. what’s the evidence mindfulness works? mindfulness and meditation are forms of mental training that involve exercising the mind to hold a space, a thought or an idea spatially. when practiced regularly over time, researchers see significant changes to different parts of a person’s brain structure via brain scans (functional magnetic resonance imaging – fmri scans). for example, a mindfulness-based training program aimed at reducing stress will include training to assist focus, organization and planning (thickening areas associated with tasks governed by the brain’s prefrontal cortex). training to help with emotional regulation (strengthening the amygdala, which is part of the limbic system) and memory (thickening the hippocampus) also assist. regular mindfulness-based exercise can be as beneficial as stretching physical muscles for greater flexibility, lifting weights to tone arms, and walking briskly to improve heart health. advertising the main difference is that you can’t see the benefits of mindfulness (unless you have a pre- and post-mindfulness training fmri scan), but you can experience the difference. who benefits most from practicing mindfulness and meditation? while mindful meditation can enhance most people’s lives, three broad-based groups may gain specific benefits. 1. you’re experiencing major stress and physical pain if you’re looking to change your life because of health problems, then mindfulness and meditation may assist. [3] many health-related problems originally stem from stress and anxiety. initially showing up as unexplained aches and pain, persistent headaches, muscle tension, decreased interest in sex, stomach upsets, debilitating tiredness or insomnia, many struggle to believe that ‘simple stress ’ can be the culprit. [4] if stress is left to fester, high blood pressure, heart disease, obesity and diabetes can result. chronic stress places your amygdala (the part of your limbic system designed to react to danger) on red alert. your body is literally fighting a crisis: chronic stress, amplifying physical symptoms until the stress is relieved. the key here is in changing your relationship with what’s causing the problem. instead of rejecting the problem or denying its existence, mindfulness and meditation offer ways to ease or minimise the sensations associated with pain and stress. 2. you crave greater personal freedom, happiness and fulfillment mindfulness and meditation help us understand what contributes to suffering and contentment. when we see this, we can make wiser choices. and as we make wiser choices we become happier. and as we become happier, we make wiser choices, and so it becomes a spiral achieving greater fulfillment and ease. –joseph goldstein observing the character of your mind at work helps begin a mindful transformation to live with greater wisdom through making better decisions, which in turn brings greater happiness. advertising each of us have skillful and unskillful thoughts. meditation helps us see, without the need for someone telling us, the thoughts that are wise and helpful and the thoughts that are not. noticing feelings of greed, anger or jealousy – the afflict-ive emotions, helps us see how much better we’d be if we let go of them. if we can recognize mindfully the thought patterns and emotions that allow us to feel happier, like generosity, kindness and compassion, we will experience for ourselves the nature of what we want more of. practicing meditation aims to help you create a transformation in your life. instead of being ‘lost’ in thought and acting-out old patterns of behavior, by observing what’s happening in your mind you can make a conscious choice to skillfully think and wisely act. 3. you need to release anxiety and unhelpful emotions interrupting thought patterns which induce a range of uncomfortable feelings is a skill mindfulness meditation teaches. rather than numbing the feelings with food, alcohol, drugs, sex or a range of avoidance strategies, you’ll learn how to change your relationship with emotional pain. knowing how to be mindfully aware lets you experience emotions as transitory. anger fades. sadness lifts. love ebbs and flows. these shifts naturally occur. knowing this transitory nature exists helps release attachment to a way of being that may seem as if it defines you. mindfulness meditation for true happiness mindfulness and meditation practice are thousands of years old. originally part of buddhist culture, these practices are settling well into western culture through programs that have gained positive results from respected practitioners and professionals. research will continue measuring results. brain scans offer physical proof. yet the only proof that matters is in changes experienced by individuals. experiencing a greater sense of peace, feeling happier and freer, being more relaxed or managing pain are positive affects of practicing mindfulness. the benefits of being mindful and practicing meditation offer ways to become more aware of yourself, others and the natural environment. it’s a global change on a personal level achieved through the demystifying of a complex language now made readily available. when you manage your emotions and responses, this grass root change reaches beyond personal benefit. you will be affecting others to live and love with purpose and intention. advertising start today practicing mindfulness, and make your world (and the world of others) a happier, more peaceful place featured photo credit: patrick fore via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ umass medical school: jon kabat-zinn [2] ^ taylor and francis: what does mindfulness really mean? [3] ^ good therapy: mindfulness based interventions [4] ^ mayo clinic: stress symptoms–effects on body and behavior share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) advertising advertising more by this author barbara grace barbara grace is the director of the school of modern psychology. she believes in living a purposeful life. how to set short term goals for a successful life meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author barbara grace barbara grace is the director of the school of modern psychology. she believes in living a purposeful life. how to set short term goals for a successful life meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.