loading... home personal memberships travel services totalcare telehealth enterprise duty of care support travel risk & crisis management consulting & staffing services partners become a partner partner login news blog about us contact us careers what you need to know about coronavirus. stay informed. coronavirus updates toggle navigation menu login enroll home services personal memberships individual & families evacuation, field rescue, intelligence and insurance for all types of travel travel services totalcare telehealth enterprise enterprise & government travel risk, crisis management and staffing solutions duty of care support travel risk & crisis management consulting & staffing services partners travel operators and associations protect your clients and employees, reduce your risk of liability and generate revenue become a partner partner login about us news blog contact login enroll coronavirus intelligence center learn more "global rescue employs former navy seals, army rangers and defense intelligence agency analysts to pluck people from precarious situations worldwide." learn more safe travel partner program learn more enterprise-grade solutions learn more previous next the leader in telehealth access, crisis management, travel risk and response. individuals & families telehealth access, evacuation, field rescue, intelligence and insurance for all types of travel learn more enterprise & government travel risk, crisis management and staffing solutions learn more partners protect your clients and employees, reduce your risk of liability and generate revenue learn more enroll now this site uses cookies. by continuing to use our site, you are agreeing to our privacy policy ok ©2020 global rescue llc. all rights reserved. careers disclaimer legal matters newsletter media kit official provider explorers club wilderness medical society u.s. ski and snowboard teams ladies professional golf association × legal notice mobile apps: global rescue mobile apps are designed for operation on the current versions of android and ios operating systems. availability of services is subject to your equipment compatibility, connectivity and signal in your location. there is no guarantee that all features and functionality will be available in your location. use and availability of the mobile apps are subject to your service provider’s plan and may be subject to additional fees from your provider. the download and use of a global rescue mobile app is subject to the terms of your member services agreement and the applicable end user license agreement (eula). × legal notice general totalcare disclaimer: ©2020 global rescue llc. totalcare and the totalcare logo are service marks of global rescue llc. all rights reserved. global rescue llc provides technical and administrative services to elite medical group, p.c. (“elite medical”), a professional corporation owned by licensed physicians that employs or contracts with physicians licensed to practice medicine where medical services are provided. it is not guaranteed that a prescription will be written, nor will any dea controlled substances, non-therapeutic drugs and certain other drugs which may be harmful because of their potential for abuse, as a result of a totalcare consultation. elite medical physicians reserve the right to deny care for potential or actual misuse of services. the global rescue mobile app is designed for operation on the current versions of android and ios operating systems. availability of services is subject to your equipment compatibility, connectivity and signal in your location. there is no guarantee that all features and functionality will be available in your location. use and availability of the mobile app is subject to your service provider’s plan and may be subject to additional fees from your provider. extended plan totalcaresm: for individuals 85+, medical transport is not included in membership. members 85+ may purchase medical transport on a fee for service basis. × legal notice travel insurance: international medical group® (img®) is the provider of signature travel insurance. img is a leader in global benefits and travel insurance services. the table displayed is a summary of benefits. please review the insurance policy for detailed description of the terms, conditions and exclusions. plan availability and benefits may change per state. if you are not satisfied for any reason with the coverage, you may submit a cancellation request and receive a full refund within 10 days from the effective date of your insurance coverage, as long as your trip departure date has not occurred and you have not filed a claim. the policy is non-refundable after 10 days. insurance benefits are underwritten by the united states fire insurance company. fairmont specialty and crum & forster are registered trademarks of united states fire insurance company. the crum & forster group of companies is rated a (excellent) by am best company 2015. × legal notice general totalcare disclaimer: ©2020 global rescue llc. totalcare and the totalcare logo are service marks of global rescue llc. all rights reserved. global rescue llc provides technical and administrative services to elite medical group, p.c. (“elite medical”), a professional corporation owned by licensed physicians that employs or contracts with physicians licensed to practice medicine where medical services are provided. it is not guaranteed that a prescription will be written, nor will any dea controlled substances, non-therapeutic drugs and certain other drugs which may be harmful because of their potential for abuse, as a result of a totalcare consultation. elite medical physicians reserve the right to deny care for potential or actual misuse of services. the global rescue mobile app is designed for operation on the current versions of android and ios operating systems. availability of services is subject to your equipment compatibility, connectivity and signal in your location. there is no guarantee that all features and functionality will be available in your location. use and availability of the mobile app is subject to your service provider’s plan and may be subject to additional fees from your provider. extended plan totalcaresm: for individuals 85+, medical transport is not included in membership. members 85+ may purchase medical transport on a fee for service basis. mobile apps: global rescue mobile apps are designed for operation on the current versions of android and ios operating systems. availability of services is subject to your equipment compatibility, connectivity and signal in your location. there is no guarantee that all features and functionality will be available in your location. use and availability of the mobile apps are subject to your service provider’s plan and may be subject to additional fees from your provider. the download and use of a global rescue mobile app is subject to the terms of your member services agreement and the applicable end user license agreement (eula). × sign up for coronavirus updates? submit × contact us best time to call? any time during office hours after office hours never timezone (gmt-12:00) international date line west (gmt-11:00) midway island, samoa (gmt-10:00) hawaii (gmt-09:00) alaska (gmt-08:00) pacific time (us & canada) (gmt-08:00) tijuana, baja california (gmt-07:00) arizona (gmt-07:00) chihuahua, la paz, mazatlan (gmt-07:00) mountain time (us & canada) (gmt-06:00) central america (gmt-06:00) central time (us & canada) (gmt-06:00) guadalajara, mexico city, monterrey (gmt-06:00) saskatchewan (gmt-05:00) bogota, lima, quito, rio branco (gmt-05:00) eastern time (us & canada) (gmt-05:00) indiana (east) (gmt-04:00) atlantic time (canada) (gmt-04:00) caracas, la paz (gmt-04:00) manaus (gmt-04:00) santiago (gmt-03:30) newfoundland (gmt-03:00) brasilia (gmt-03:00) buenos aires, georgetown (gmt-03:00) greenland (gmt-03:00) montevideo (gmt-02:00) mid-atlantic (gmt-01:00) cape verde is. (gmt-01:00) azores (gmt+00:00) casablanca, monrovia, reykjavik (gmt+00:00) greenwich mean time : dublin, edinburgh, lisbon, london (gmt+01:00) amsterdam, berlin, bern, rome, stockholm, vienna (gmt+01:00) belgrade, bratislava, budapest, ljubljana, prague (gmt+01:00) brussels, copenhagen, madrid, paris (gmt+01:00) sarajevo, skopje, warsaw, zagreb (gmt+01:00) west central africa (gmt+02:00) amman (gmt+02:00) athens, bucharest, istanbul (gmt+02:00) beirut (gmt+02:00) cairo (gmt+02:00) harare, pretoria (gmt+02:00) helsinki, kyiv, riga, sofia, tallinn, vilnius (gmt+02:00) jerusalem (gmt+02:00) minsk (gmt+02:00) windhoek (gmt+03:00) kuwait, riyadh, baghdad (gmt+03:00) moscow, st. petersburg, volgograd (gmt+03:00) nairobi (gmt+03:00) tbilisi (gmt+03:30) tehran (gmt+04:00) abu dhabi, muscat (gmt+04:00) baku (gmt+04:00) yerevan (gmt+04:30) kabul (gmt+05:00) yekaterinburg (gmt+05:00) islamabad, karachi, tashkent (gmt+05:30) sri jayawardenapura (gmt+05:30) chennai, kolkata, mumbai, new delhi (gmt+05:45) kathmandu (gmt+06:00) almaty, novosibirsk (gmt+06:00) astana, dhaka (gmt+06:30) yangon (rangoon) (gmt+07:00) bangkok, hanoi, jakarta (gmt+07:00) krasnoyarsk (gmt+08:00) beijing, chongqing, hong kong, urumqi (gmt+08:00) kuala lumpur, singapore (gmt+08:00) irkutsk, ulaan bataar (gmt+08:00) perth (gmt+08:00) taipei (gmt+09:00) osaka, sapporo, tokyo (gmt+09:00) seoul (gmt+09:00) yakutsk (gmt+09:30) adelaide (gmt+09:30) darwin (gmt+10:00) brisbane (gmt+10:00) canberra, melbourne, sydney (gmt+10:00) hobart (gmt+10:00) guam, port moresby (gmt+10:00) vladivostok (gmt+11:00) magadan, solomon is., new caledonia (gmt+12:00) auckland, wellington (gmt+12:00) fiji, kamchatka, marshall is. (gmt+13:00) nuku'alofa my email is about? my membership become a partner enterprise sales pr/media number of travelers 50-200 travelers (small) 201-999 travelers (medium) 1000+ travelers (large) submit × have you signed up for our global rescue newsletter? submit × treatment of non-emergency conditions orthopedics / sports medicine ear, nose, & throat (ent) gastroenterology (gi) chronic conditions pediatrics gynecology / women’s health dermatology dentistry ophthalmology psychiatry infectious disease genitourinary (gu) surgery neurology/neurosurgery cardiology pulmonary plastic surgery endocrine hematology/oncology × specialty consultation allergy symptoms bronchitis and coughs earaches and infections flu-like symptoms gout headaches indigestions and heartburn mononucleosis mouth and oran conditions nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea pinkeye and styes sinus infections and congestion sore and strep throat upper respiratory infections urinary tract and bladder infections yeast infections and more × free destination report destination afghanistan albania algeria american samoa andorra angola anguilla antigua and barbuda argentina armenia aruba australia austria azerbaijan bahamas bahrain bangladesh barbados belarus belgium belize benin bermuda bhutan bolivia bosnia and herzegovina botswana brazil british virgin islands brunei darussalam bulgaria burkina faso burundi cambodia cameroon canada cape verde cayman islands central african republic chad chile china colombia comoros congo costa rica cote d'ivoire croatia cuba curacao cyprus czech republic democratic republic of congo denmark djibouti dominica dominican republic ecuador egypt el salvador equatorial guinea eritrea estonia eswatini ethiopia federated states of micronesia fiji finland france french guiana french polynesia gabon gambia georgia germany ghana greece greenland grenada guadeloupe guatemala guinea guinea-bissau guyana haiti honduras hong kong s.a.r. hungary iceland india indonesia iran iraq ireland israel italy jamaica japan jordan kazakhstan kenya kiribati kosovo kuwait kyrgyzstan laos latvia lebanon lesotho liberia libya liechtenstein lithuania luxembourg macau madagascar malawi malaysia maldives mali malta marshall islands martinique mauritania mauritius mexico moldova monaco mongolia montenegro montserrat morocco mozambique myanmar namibia nauru nepal netherlands new caledonia new zealand nicaragua niger nigeria north korea north macedonia norway oman pakistan palau palestinian territories panama papua new guinea paraguay peru philippines poland portugal puerto rico qatar reunion romania russian federation rwanda saint kitts and nevis saint lucia saint martin saint vincent and the grenadines samoa san marino sao tome and principe saudi arabia senegal serbia seychelles sierra leone singapore slovak republic slovenia solomon islands somalia south africa south korea south sudan spain sri lanka sudan suriname sweden switzerland syria taiwan tajikistan tanzania thailand timor-leste togo tonga trinidad and tobago tunisia turkey turkmenistan turks and caicos tuvalu us virgin islands uganda ukraine united arab emirates united kingdom united states uruguay uzbekistan vanuatu venezuela vietnam western sahara yemen zambia zimbabwe i agree to receive updates from global rescue. you can always unsubscribe from these emails. receive report ok