headspace is offering free support during the current global crisis. get help now>> the scienceblogfor workhow to meditatehelp log intry for free headspace is offering free support during the current global crisis. get help now>> mindfulness for your everyday life stress less. move more. sleep soundly. try for free learn a mindful approach explore guided exercises, videos, and more to help you get healthier and happier. headspace loves science just 10 days of headspace can increase happiness by 16%. join over 60 million connect with friends and over 60 million people benefiting from mindfulness. try for free hundreds of articles for any mind, any mood, any goal. meditation meditation 101 what is mediation benefits of meditation guided meditation meditation techniques meditation for beginners sleep & wake up meditation for sleep morning meditation how to fall back asleep sleep hygiene how to sleep better power napping stress & anxiety meditation for stress meditation for anxiety how to relax breathing exercises to reduce stress calming meditation relaxation meditation movement & healthy living running meditation walking meditation meditation for sport mindful eating mindful cooking meditation and weight loss what's new how to be more empathetic mindful death how to relieve stress how to stop worrying guided imagery what is a flow state? your personal guide to mindfulness the wake up* inspiring stories and mini-meditations delivered daily to help you start your morning right. see how it works try for free move mode* train your body and your mind at the same time with exercises to strengthen your mental and physical well-being. see how it works try for free sleep from waking up in the night to switching off after a long day, create the conditions for a restful night’s sleep with sleepcasts, music, and other unique audio experiences. your browser does not support the audio element. desert campfire 0:00 0:01 try for free meditation learn to manage feelings and thoughts with the lifelong skill of everyday mindfulness, any time of the day. your browser does not support the audio element. basics - session 1 0:00 0:01 try for free try headspace plus for free unlock the full headspace experience a new meditation every day sleep exercises and bedtime sounds move mode for body and mind fitness best value terms & conditions | cancel anytime *move mode and the wake up content coming to android customers later this year. try for free get some headspacesubscriberedeem a codesend a giftguided meditationmeditation for workmeditation for kidsmeditation on sleepmeditation on focusmeditation on stressmeditation on anxiety our communityblog about usabout headspaceabout andy puddicombeandy's bookspress & mediacareers supporthelp centercontact usalexagoogle assistant partnershipsresearch partnersbrand partnersphilanthropy get the app © 2020 headspace inc.terms & conditionsprivacy policycookie policyccpa noticesite map