home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more meet the michael hyatt & company team meet the michael hyatt & company team principals marketing sales product brand leadership customer support finance executive support principals responsible for direction, vision, and the accomplishment of ultimate goals, our founders lead fearlessly into territories old and new. they tirelessly seek to meet the needs of our customers while protecting the interests of the team. their heart for the integrity of our products and message resonates in everything we do. michael hyatt chief executive officer view bio michael hyatt is the chief executive officer and founder of michael hyatt & company. he has scaled multiple companies over the years, including a $250m publishing company with 700+ employees and his own leadership development company that has grown over 60% year over year for the past 4 years. under his leadership, michael hyatt & company has been featured in the inc. 5000 list of the fastest-growing companies in america for three years in a row. he is also the author of several new york times, wall street journal, and usa today bestselling books, including platform, living forward, your best year ever, free to focus, and the vision-driven leader. he enjoys the double win with his wife of 40+ years, five daughters, and nine grandchildren. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: achiever, intellection, strategic, futuristic, relator megan hyatt miller chief operating officer view bio megan hyatt miller is the chief operating officer. second in command to michael, she’s primarily responsible for strategic direction, brand management, growth initiatives, and general operations for the company as a whole. she also serves as the leader of our leaders and works closely with michael to create a world-class company culture for our team. an appreciator of beauty, megan majored in design in college, and her professional background includes leading marketing and communications initiatives for small businesses and non-profits. megan and her husband joel make their home in franklin, tn, along with their four children, fionn, felicity, moses, and jonah. enneagram personality type: 4, the individualist strengthsfinder top 5: futuristic, relator, strategic, activator, achiever marketing team enthusiasts from start to finish, our marketing team is wired for matching people to the products that can improve their lives. responsible for design, messaging, and getting the word out, they seek maximum impact and effectiveness for our customers. their positive, can-do spirit is equaled only by their steadfast work ethic. courtney baker chief marketing officer view bio a nashville native, courtney is the chief marketing officer. prior to joining michael hyatt & company, courtney spent over 10 years in non-profit communications, most recently at show hope as the director of communications. her hobbies include interior design, reading, traveling with her husband chase, and doing just about anything with her daughter kit. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: achiever, significance, includer, woo, focus dave yankowiak senior developer view bio born and raised in minnesota, dave is a senior developer for the marketing team. he focuses on front and back end web development. he especially enjoys building on top of wordpress with various javascript and css frameworks. prior to joining the team, dave ran his own company, lift development, for over nine years. his interests include the outdoors, guitars, vinyl records, the minnesota timberwolves, dates with his lovely wife sarah, and making their three daughters laugh. he has his b.a. from bethel university. enneagram personality type: 7, the enthusiast strengthsfinder top 5: activator, restorative, learner, futuristic, includer megan greer marketing manager view bio originally from houston, texas, megan greer is the senior marketing project manager. prior to this, she managed marketing campaigns for several talent management solutions and leadership councils at ceb (now gartner). she has her b.a. from texas a&m university, m.b.a. from trevecca nazarene university, and enjoys reading, interior design, and going on adventures with her husband and son. enneagram personality type: 9, the peacemaker strengthsfinder top 5: positivity, futuristic, maximizer, adaptability, relator neal samudre copywriter & strategy manager view bio hailing from the suburbs of d.c., neal is the marketing copywriter. he’s responsible for crafting the words that power our promotional campaigns and launch initiatives. prior to joining michael hyatt & company, he was the ceo and founder of neal samudre & associates, where he helped the biggest names online sell their products 24/7. neal currently lives in nashville, tn with his wife, carly, and their dog, noble. he’s a book lover, mustache enthusiast, apple fanboy, and buffalo wing connoisseur. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: achiever, maximizer, strategic, relator, significance sarah mcelroy marketing automation specialist view bio originally from dayton, ohio, sarah mcelroy is the marketing automation specialist. prior to this, she managed email marketing campaigns for several companies including hca and several brands for the journeys group. she has her b.s. from urbana university and m.b.a. from wright state university. in her downtime, she enjoys basketball, netflix, and life with her husband and daughter. enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: restorative, relator, positivity, individualization, learner marissa hyatt social media manager view bio born and raised south of nashville, marissa is our social media manager. she’s responsible for creating the strategy and content to make our brand’s name relevant and prominent on social media. prior to joining our company, she owned her own business, built websites, and even worked in restaurant management. she is also michael’s youngest daughter, which gives her a unique perspective that informs our social media management and direction. in her free time she enjoys cooking for friends, baking sourdough bread, geeking out about natural wellness and personal growth, traveling, and watching british period piece tv shows. enneagram personality type: 8, the protector strengthsfinder top 5: futuristic, activator, significance, relator, communicator elizabeth lynch executive assistant to courtney baker view bio originally from birmingham, alabama, elizabeth serves as the executive assistant to the chief marketing officer, courtney baker. prior to joining the michael hyatt & company team, elizabeth worked in operations and community engagement for a charter school in nashville. she graduated from the university of mississippi (ole miss) with a degree in journalism. in her free time, she enjoys reading, running, cooking, and listening to podcasts. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: achiever, discipline, input, woo, communication natalie fockel customer experience manager view bio natalie fockel is our customer support manager. with her decade of experience as an executive assistant and event planner, she ensures our customers have a fantastic experience with our physical and digital products. natalie graduated from the university of north texas with a bachelor of arts degree and now lives in columbia, tn with her husband, andrew. in her free time, natalie enjoys listening to podcasts, adventuring with her husband and spending as much time as possible with her son, hunter. enneagram personality type: 6, the loyalist strengthsfinder top 5: empathy, discipline, harmony, developer, belief emi tanke customer experience specialist view bio originally from oregon, emi tanke is our customer support specialist. she makes it her mission to take care of our customers and help ensure they have a great experience. since 2012, she’s gone back and forth between the customer support realm and being a musical performer up and down the west coast. in her free time, emi enjoys reading personal development books, staying in tree homes, and finding new ways to live a more environmentally-friendly lifestyle. enneagram personality type: 5, the investigator strengthsfinder top 5: intellection, input, responsibility, futuristic, connectedness sales team ambassadors of transformation, our sales team speaks with leaders on a daily basis. responsible for sales across different industries, they take our products to the trenches and guide our prospects to winning decisions for their lives and businesses. their flexibility, resilience, and high-growth mindset is demonstrated in the results they deliver on a consistent basis. chad cannon chief sales officer view bio chad cannon is our chief sales officer. he was formerly the founder and ceo of chadwick cannon agency, a full-service digital marketing firm dedicated to amplifying brands and ideas. prior to that, he was vice president of marketing for thomas nelson publishers, now a division of harpercollins. in his five years there, he led more than 225 book marketing campaigns, with 16 titles reaching the new york times bestseller list. chad lives in nashville with his wife julie, a talented photographer and writer. he’s an enormous fan of the chicago cubs, apple products, dogs, traveling, and darn good food. enneagram personality type: 8, the protector strengthsfinder top 5: competition, command, strategic, activator, futuristic rebecca turner executive assistant to chad cannon view bio a south georgia native, becca is the executive assistant to our chief sales officer, chad cannon. she carries with her experience in marketing, merchandising, and event planning, having previously worked with organizations like if:gathering. an alumni of auburn university, becca now lives and works in the nashville area. in her free time, she enjoys traveling, trying new restaurants in nashville, and spending time with her family. enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: relator, responsibility, positivity, communicator, empathy trey dunavant senior business consultant view bio a virginia native and newbie to nashville, trey dunavant is our senior sales associate. prior to joining michael hyatt & co, trey spent the last decade as a mid-atlantic sales manager in the manufacturing sector. here he developed his love for working with business’ and owners to grow their companies and better service their customers. with a zeal for his family, he can usually be found leading the charge to a fresh taco truck or dive with exceptional flavors. he also enjoys running, basketball, playing drums, and saturday mornings at the local farmer’s market with his wife and two daughters. enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: positivity, achiever, activator, belief, communication blake stratton business consultant view bio a nashville resident of 13 years, blake stratton is a sales associate. blake first developed his love for sales and marketing while working in the music industry as a musician and songwriter. before joining michael hyatt & co., he was consulting with small businesses as a marketing writer and strategist. he’s driven by his connection with jesus, fascinated by his beautiful wife alaina, and excited to be welcoming their first child to the family this summer. if you want great coffee recommendations or strong opinions on the chicago bears, blake has you covered. enneagram personality type: 4, the individualist strengthsfinder top 5: relator, activator, intellection, responsibility, strategic deidra romero client care manager view bio deidra is our business accelerator™ program coordinator. she’s responsible for providing a first-class experience for our businessaccelerator clients so they can enjoy the transformation our executive coaching curriculum delivers. her in-depth experience of coaching and our michael hyatt & company products allows her to give quality, customized care to our clients. in her personal time she adores a good memoir, any kind of life hack, and coffee. when she isn’t at her laptop, she’s doing something fun (and messy!) with her two kids. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: activator, achiever, restorative, learner, strategic product team guardians of voice, brand, and quality, our content team navigates the deep end of relevant research, distilling insightful, consumable information for our audience. endlessly creative, they are responsible for developing and producing all types of content. their knack for wordsmithing and attention to detail never ceases to amaze us. joel miller chief content officer view bio joel oversees our content team, which produces blog posts, podcasts, courses, and books. he is a writer and editor with more than fifteen years of experience in the publishing industry, including as a vice president and publisher for thomas nelson, an imprint of harpercollins. he has worked with several new york times bestselling authors and has authored four books of his own, including a biography of american revolutionary hero paul revere. originally from california, he and his wife megan now live in franklin, tennessee, with their four children. joel enjoys spending time outdoors with megan and his kids, reading history and theology, and blogging about where faith fits in the world today. enneagram personality type: 5, the investigator strengthsfinder top 5: intellection, input, connectedness, ideation, learner katherine rowley director of content view bio katherine is our director of content, leading our team of content creators. she manages the team’s projects from ideation to final delivery, keeping everything on schedule and top quality. katherine has more than 15 years of experience in project management, as well as a background in leadership, editing, design, content creation, and product development. over the course of her career, she has worked as an editor with several new york times bestselling authors and managed projects that have generated millions of dollars in revenue. katherine currently lives in nashville, where she enjoys spoiling her nieces and nephew, spending time with family and friends, creating art, reading mystery novels, and being outside whenever possible.enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: empathy, relator, responsibility, developer, & positivity aleshia curry content executive assistant view bio a native of the dallas-fort worth area of texas, aleshia is the executive assistant to the chief content officer, joel miller. she obtained her b.b.a. in management from the university of houston and has an extensive background in hospitality management. prior to joining our team, aleshia served as an executive assistant to the executive chef & ceo of a corporate catering company in philadelphia. she recently relocated to mt. juliet, tn, with her husband calvin. aleshia enjoys dancing, volunteering, kayaking, and traveling with her husband. enneagram personality type: 8, the protector strengthsfinder top 5: communication, woo, strategic, activator, individualization mike burns community & production specialist view bio mike lives in franklin, tn, and has over 25 years of experience in communication, community development and content creation. his career has spanned both the for-profit and non-profit worlds. mike has worked on the communications team of a global anti-poverty social enterprise and has taught time and life management courses to groups of all sizes and backgrounds–ranging from those in leadership positions to the homeless. mike has been married to his wife, jen, for 20+ years. they have six kids and get really jazzed if they can make the world a slightly better place. enneagram personality type: 5, the investigator strengthsfinder top 5: achiever, responsibility, arranger, positivity, strategic mike boyer content production manager view bio a native of phoenix, arizona, michael moved to nashville in ’96. after 12 years as a recording artist, he began working with a non-profit program to develop the talent of young artists in music city. prior to his arrival at michael hyatt & co., michael was the creative director at a church in brentwood, tn, where he led teams focused on media and production and communications. in his down time, michael enjoys reading, sliding across the kitchen floor in his socks, dancing with his 3 amazing kids, date nights with his bride, verna, and designing t-shirts. enneagram personality type: 5, the investigator strengthsfinder top 5: connectedness, ideation, belief, learner, intellection lawrence wilson content creation specialist view bio larry is a senior content creator and has been producing published materials for about 30 years. prior to joining mh&co., his diverse career included ghostwriting, freelance editing, editorial direction, and pastoral ministry. he holds degrees from united wesleyan college and gordon-conwell theological seminary. larry resides in central indiana. on weekends, he can be found browsing the local library or cycling. enneagram personality type: 1, the reformer strengthsfinder top 5: strategic, learner, achiever, discipline, responsibility adam hill director of product design & development view bio adam hill is our director of product design & development. he brings with him a wealth of experience on product development, having spent 13 years as a product developer for harper collins christian publishers. adam has also been the front man for a rock & roll band, a dishwasher, a deli clerk, a furniture deliverer, and has written a novel. he currently lives in nashville, tn with his wife and two kids. in his free time, adam eats tacos and reads history and mystery books. enneagram personality type: 6, the loyalist strengthsfinder top 5: context, empathy, relator, strategic, responsibility brand leadership champions of each community we have established, we choose brand leaders who are passionate about creating “wow” transformational learning experiences. these strategic leaders dedicate their focus to developing and continually improving every aspect of the content and product experience for our brands. as deeply-invested advocates, they are responsible to create innovative ways to deliver the transformation we promise and truly exceed the expectations of our students. john meese platform university director of brand and community development view bio as our director of brand and community development for platform university, john meese works with our team to keep platform university cutting edge as the best platform-building resource available today. john was originally a platform university student, who successfully grew his platform enough to support his family from his online business and quit his job as training director at chick-fil-a―where he worked for six years. john lives in columbia, tn with his wife, rachel, and two young kids. he enjoys good food, any book that makes him think, and learning songs on his ukulele (just for fun). enneagram personality type: 1, the reformer strengthsfinder top 5: strategic, individualization, achiever, responsibility, and belief annette chesney student success specialist view bio with a background as an entrepreneur and pastor, building a platform while coaching others, annette’s passionate about empowering others to achieve their goals, and known for helping people get unstuck. she understands how game-changing an online platform is, so she’s committed to helping platform university students achieve step-by-step success. she’s a graduate of liberty university, a hot tea connoisseur, and beach lover, in tampa, florida. for fun, she and her daughters share a love of popcorn and awesome movies, and have been known to stealthily throw movie lines into casual conversation. strengthsfinder top 5: strategic, relator, activator, futuristic, learner finance team the vigilance of our finance team has no equal. with diligence, optimism, and an obsession with detail, they protect and add to the welfare of our company with unceasing dedication. responsible for our balance of personnel, income, and expenses, they fulfill their duty with passion and excellence. jarrod souza chief financial officer view bio originally from california, jarrod souza is our chief financial officer. he was formerly the cfo for golf tailor llc, a direct response company that produced golf clubs, accessories, training aids, and instruction within the golf industry. during his time at golf tailor, jarrod established manufacturing relationships overseas to reduce costs while helping the company grow significantly over the past four years. he currently lives in the dc area with his wife and four kids. jarrod enjoys the outdoors, hiking, mountain biking, playing soccer, and spending time with his family—especially if it is on a beach. enneagram personality type: 9, the peacemaker strengthsfinder top 5: harmony, positivity, relator, responsibility, arranger charae price director of finance view bio charae is our director of finance, responsible for processing all financial data as well as compiling the data into clean reporting packages for our executive leadership. she has a bachelor’s degree in mathematics with a concentration in actuarial studies. prior to joining our team, charae worked in the international tax group for home depot and as a senior accountant at unitedhealth group in their corporate accounting group. originally from buffalo, ny, she grew up in atlanta and now lives in franklin, tn, where she enjoys photography, music, antiques, and traveling with her husband matt. enneagram personality type: 6, the loyalist strengthsfinder top 5: belief, strategic, achiever, developer, learner andrew fockel accounting specialist view bio andrew is our accounting specialist and assists the finance team in the overall upkeep of the company’s financial information. his prior accounting experience has spanned multiple industries including healthcare, construction and manufacturing. andrew graduated from the university of north texas with a bachelor of arts degree and now lives in columbia, tn with his wife natalie. he loves driving tractors, reading, playing the drums and green bay packers football. enneagram personality type: 1, the reformer strengthsfinder top 5: responsibility, belief, developer, connectedness, empathy renee murphy executive assistant to jarrod souza view bio originally from los angeles, ca, renee is jarrod souza’s executive assistant. for the last eight years, she worked as the director of operations at a charter school in nashville. prior to that, she worked in program coordination and event planning for multiple organizations. renee lives in nolensville, tn with her husband and their two children. in her spare time, she enjoys traveling, the beach, spending time with her family, and dodgers baseball. enneagram personality type: 3, the achiever strengthsfinder top 5: context, responsibility, achiever, empathy, connectedness operations team with a pulse on every endeavor, the operations team ensures the integrity of company processes that serve our clients and our staff. our human resources, facilities and executive support departments fall under the operations umbrella, and together these teams work for efficiency and excellence in all on-the-ground operations. responsible for creating wow experiences in events, environments, communication, and administration, they coordinate logistics, people, and places with mastery. danielle rodgers director of human resources view bio native to new jersey, danielle is our director of human resources, specializing in creating an optimal employee experience as it pertains to hiring, training, company policies, engagement, and company-wide events. she graduated from rutgers university with a b.a. in economics and serves alongside her husband, the associate pastor at their local church. in her free time, danielle enjoys water sports, the outdoors, action movies, and spending copious amounts of time laughing with her husband kyle and daughter savannah at their home in st. petersburg, fl. enneagram personality type: 1, the reformer strengthsfinder top 5: analytics, significance, competition, communication, focus ora corr operations and hospitality coordinator view bio ora corr is the operations and hospitality coordinator at michael hyatt & company. she recently graduated from williamson college with her masters in organizational leadership, and has worked as an administrative assistant for the past five years. ora has lived in the nashville area for the past thirteen years and calls nashville her forever home. in her free time, she enjoys spending time with friends and family, serving her community, and traveling. enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: developer, relator, belief, responsibility, harmony executive support team with an ability to anticipate needs and always be 5 steps ahead, our executive support team diligently serves our founders using their superb administrative skills. by guarding their time, and helping them stay focused, these elite executive assistants free up our leaders to do what they do best—lead our company to new heights. jim kelly executive assistant to michael hyatt, our ceo view bio jim kelly is the executive assistant to michael hyatt, the ceo and founder of michael hyatt & company. jim’s main responsibilities consist of handling michael’s calendar, email, and travel. in his spare time, jim enjoys to read, run, and swim. he has been married to his wife suzanne for over 5 years. together, they have a baby boy named greyson. enneagram personality type: 1, the reformer strengthsfinder top 5: discipline, focus, harmony, responsibility, achiever jamie hess executive assistant to megan hyatt miller, our coo view bio jamie hails from washington state and serves as the executive assistant to our coo, megan hyatt miller. she developed executive support expertise through many years supporting authors and entrepreneurs in her own virtual assistant business. together with her husband greg, who was a pastor for more than 20 years, jamie has an immense heart for people and loves to support charitable organizations. she enjoys reading, spending time with friends and family (especially their four grown children and now grandkids!), and relaxing anywhere with a serene, beautiful view. enneagram personality type: 2, the helper strengthsfinder top 5: developer, relator, belief, responsibility, empathy join our team interested in joining our team? if you work with us, you can dig deep into your desired specialty and grow personally and professionally. visit our careers page to find out what positions are currently available. learn more mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed