meet the smartsites team! leading digital marketing agency think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 our team meet our team alex melen co-founder michael melen co-founder matthew prepis director of business development anita kostadinov director of project management oleg korneitchouk director of seo victoria tan director of inbound marketing chad faith director of content vaskar nepal director of frontend development sergey nechaev director of backend development sherry arora director of design ryan brew senior account manager richard yenicag senior account manager natalie gomez account manager claudius grego account manager john toth senior project manager irina mircica senior project manager ashley moffitt senior project manager melissa de lorenzo project manager olivia hendrzak project manager ashley ismailovski project manager matthew potash ppc technical manager connor o’hanlon ppc operations manager dylan lopez ppc analyst richard gedeon ppc analyst joe koza ppc analyst michael guzman ppc analyst danielle denman ppc analyst ziv zamechek web strategist christine garabedian office manager join our team do you have a passion for digital marketing? do you find yourself constantly exceeding expectations? you belong with us. learn more smartsites global we have the best & brightest in new jersey and across the globe. show all teamsdesign teamfrontend teambackend teamseo teamcontent teammarketing admin team design team leader: sherry arora team size: 10 focus areas: web design, ux/ui design, graphic design frontend development team leader: vaskar nepal team size: 21 focus areas: cms management, html/css backend development team leader: sergey nechaev team size: 7 focus areas: web apps, ecommerce, databases, integrations seo team leader: victoria tan team size: 15 focus areas: link building, marketing reports content team leader: chad faith team size: 7 focus areas: copywriting, blogging marketing admin team leader: aisha ghulam team size: 3 focus areas: social media scheduling, data entry get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: team recent company news posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on december 27, 2019 smartsites ranked #1 on topdevelopers.co read posted on december 12, 2019 smartsites gives back with a clothing fund drive read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect