login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit i can has cheezburger? favorite meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) ready to smile? each week we are featuring the newly adopted pets of the week! is there a lovelier sight than an animal being adopted?! we wholeheartedly thank those who have adopted, providing animals with a loving, comfortable and warm home. there's literally nothing better. we're seeing a lot of new furry faces being adopted due to the new regulations, and while we absolutely adore seeing so many adopted faces, please remember that a pet is for life. the decision to adopt one is one that should be thought through thoroughly. for those of you who are thinking about getting a pet, just remember; adopt, don't shop. if you recently adopted a pet, shoot us an email to be featured in next weeks list! posted by ameatball share tweet stumble pin it email 1 "brought her home today from the local animal shelter. shes 12. they said no one wanted her. i do. shes had a long day. rest well friend! tomorrow we play!" pin it via u/havramov8 2 "lots of strange things happening in the world lately. adopted this rescue kitty today to help make both our lives better." pin it via u/thewhitebobbyjindal 3 "when you are forced to work from home, you adopt a kitten. everyone meet tomato! my wee little companion during this difficult time" pin it via u/counteryou 4 "i adopted astrid this week. kitten is still figuring herself out." pin it via u/chubka 5 "just adopted this handsome boy yesterday" pin it via u/cantspellinator 6 "i adopted a pregnant stray cat today. meet morgana" pin it via u/jeffxin 7 "didn’t know i would be home for an extended time when i adopted him, but he’s pretty happy about it." pin it via u/drags1104 8 "shelter was filling up due to dummies and the virus. i did my part and adopted this cutie to spend my social distancing with. meet olive." pin it via u/dhowe100 9 "i have been waiting 23 years to get my own cat and today i rescued her! meet mia muffin" pin it via u/girlysquirrelyy 10 "30 day stay at home order? guess i’ll adopt a pupper. meet gracie!" pin it via u/dependentwarthog 11 "in light of the covid-19 crisis, we decided that some happiness was needed for our family. proud to introduce little bluey to the world!" pin it via u/goodtoknow92 12 "social distancing means plenty of time to settle in a new kitten... everyone meet indy!!" can't play video pin it via u//friedflies 13 "today i rescued this littly beauty, she drive with me for 1,5 hours like this. i think she knows shes going to her forever home" pin it via u/drunkfenix 14 "foster a dog, it will be temporary help for the shelter" they said.... yeah right. this little pooper is not going back. meet elita 1. our foster... i mean soon to be adopted puppers. pin it via u/scarr3g 15 "our two new additions! brother and sister!" pin it via u/pumbaa7287 16 "finally the cat was cleared and we were able to adopt her. meet bell." pin it via u/oddballout3 17 "yesterday i picked up my best friend for the foreseeable future" pin it via u/asamin 18 "working from home with a new adoption makes it a whole lot more bearable" pin it via u/ha-ke 19 "we just adopted a feral and her newborns. wish us luck!" pin it via u/aainikin 20 "i adopted this cat from family so she didn't have to go into foster" pin it via u/catsnmountains 21 "we adopted this good boy today just as our state went on lockdown. meet jasper." pin it via u/mowmix 22 "we got our first family dog!" pin it via u/tennis8637 23 "the shelter was clearing out for covid-19 and i needed a social distancing buddy. meet my new foster vader!" pin it via u/camehereforthedogs technically, this adorable guy isn't adopted... yet.. comments on the original posts are suggesting he might be a foster fail and adopted for real.. fingers crossed! repost - vote - recaption share tweet stumble pin it email aww adopt shelter dogs adoption adopted cats animals rescue reposted by next on i can has cheezburger? dog was so happy his owner is home now that he sprained his tail from too much wagging comments - click to show - click to hide upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter