skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more meet the people who make  it all possible hey everyone, pat here again. i was a one-man-band when i started spi back in 2008. but even back then, i had a lot of help—from friends, advisors, and others. a lot has changed since then. over the years, i began working with more and more talented professionals to help me get things done. i hired freelance designers, business strategists, specialized agencies, lawyers, accountants, web developers, event coordinators, and other types of contractors. they all helped me think bigger, make wise decisions, create valuable things (like podcasts, courses, and live events), and—most importantly—deliver on my commitments to you, the fans. that way of working was good for a while. it was instrumental in helping spi get here. but as the saying goes, what got you here doesn’t always get you there. i started to feel that way in 2018. it had been a decade since spi began. things were still growing, but i’m not sure i’d say they were scaling, at least not in a healthy way. my time, energy, and attention were becoming increasingly drained as i pushed to do even bigger things, like flynncon. that’s when i knew spi was ready for a big change. the big change came in the form of formally joining forces with my longtime creative agency, winning edits. matt and his team merged “in-house” here at spi. at the same time, i hired my longtime assistant, jess, onto the in-house team. bringing the core talent into the fold was the energy spark spi (and myself, personally) needed to make the leap into an exciting new phase of possibilities, growth, and achievement. don’t worry! we’re not at all “corporate-y”. and i’m not going anywhere. we’re merely a better organized business and more focused team with a far greater ability to elevate entrepreneurs to within reach of their dreams! now, without further ado, i’m thrilled to introduce you to everyone! team spi we exist to educate and train a world-wide community of entrepreneurs. those of us on “team spi” concentrate on all of our educational content and training experiences. we conceive, create, launch, and support our free guides, premium courses, smartbar partnerships, live webinars, and more. pat flynn founder, creator, and head of growth pat is the man who started it all. he is a family man who also happens to be the creator of spi as well as a bestselling author, serial entrepreneur, industry influencer, and startup advisor. oh, and he’s the world’s biggest back to the future fan. superpowers: entrepreneurship public speaking community building relationship development marketing and media team: executive, growth, content matt gartland partner, coo + cfo, and head of innovation matt is a servant leader whose greatest joy comes from empowering other leaders, teams, and organizations to achieve their potential through sustainable growth. above all, he’s a father and husband who will never relinquish his pittsburgh roots. superpowers: leadership strategic planning operations and finance content strategy product strategy team: executive, operations, finance, innovation karen beattie senior content manager karen is multi-talented professional with years of experience as a marketer, writer, and editor. she's the author of two books, adores being the mom to her spirited 10-year-old daughter, and often questions her decision to live in chicago when the mercury hits negative digits. superpowers: editing and writing publishing product launches branding marketing team: content sara jane hess partnerships manager sara jane (affectionately “sj”) is a former apple genius with a knack for solving pesky problems, a gift for building deep relationships, and a spunk for just about everything, except perhaps her husband’s retro shoe collection. superpowers: relationship building customer experience business operations human resources culture development team: growth mindy peters solutions manager mindy is an ardent learner who loves to solve problems, figure things out, analyze data, and generally be an enthusiastic nerd. she also has a deep affection for feline friends, bee keeping, homemade pizza, and all things minnesotian. superpowers: training and support system integrations data analysis qa and compliance technical troubleshooting team: innovation non wels solutions expert non is the empathetic heart of the team who channels his compassion for others into meaningful customer experiences and moments. in his free time, non is on the mic recording episodes of his podcast, you me empathy, or attending to his many animals. superpowers: communications community management customer support testing and support writing and editing team: innovation team flynn we exist to inspire and entertain entrepreneurs as a means of motivating purposeful action. those of us on “team flynn” concentrate on supporting pat’s personal creations as well as his personality-driven brand. specifically, we provide support for his publishing projects (like superfans), his industry event (flynncon), his mastermind, and anything else touching the “pat flynn” brand. pat flynn founder, creator pat is the man who started it all. he is a family man who also happens to be the creator of spi as well as a bestselling author, serial entrepreneur, industry influencer, and startup advisor. oh, and he’s the world’s biggest back to the future fan. superpowers: entrepreneurship public speaking community building relationship development marketing and media team: all teams 🙂 jess lindgren executive assistant jess is pat’s right-hand gal, who handles all of his needs, great and small. she helps run pat’s personal programs, including workshops and flynncon. when she’s not supporting pat, jess loves practicing yoga, traveling the globe, and basking in the glorious san diego weather. superpowers: executive administration brand experience event coordination office management problem solving team: administration, events, workshops where we work we proudly embrace the ideals, diversities, and dynamics of remote working because we believe that distributed workforces play an important role in the future of work, life, and society. la jolla, california at wework hq1 is home to spi’s creative and production studio. pat works out of this location, which has been outfitted with state-of-the-art gear to ensure that all spi productions (podcasts, courses, etc.) are of the highest grade possible. it’s a beautiful location in the heart of la jolla where the team gathers on occasion during the year for staff meetings and workshops. columbus, ohio at industrious hq2 is home to spi’s business and operations command center. matt and several team members work out of this location, which is optimized for collaborations across business functions as well as with service partners that are local. it’s a versatile location in the lively short north district where the team rallies once a year for its annual strategic planning summit. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less