skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download mega addons for wpbakery page builder by nasir details reviews installation support development description best addons plugin for wpbakery page builder – wordpress plugin mega addons for wpbakery page builder ~ the biggest addon bundle for wpbakery with 28 addons. this addon bundle provide you everything for your wpbakery page builder. addons for wpbakery features professional looking, easy to use yet highly functional extensions that can be used in a wpbakery page builder. wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin must be installed and activated to use this plugin. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. live demo | contact | support forum | how to use | blog if you like this plugin, please give us 5 star to encourage for future improvement. features member profile show your awesome team info banner displays the banner information image hove effects image hover effects interactive banner great hover effects interactive banner 2 display image with information pricing table create nice looking pricing tables price table listing compare listing post carousel/grid show posts as carousel stats counter your milestones, achievements etc info box add icon box with custom font icon caousal slide show as carousel flip box add icon box with custom font icon modal popup for image hover effects image hover effects flip book 3d page flip book advanced button animated style buttons dual button add a dual button and give some desing timeline add multiple images and text creative link creative links button countdown set countdown timer advanced social icons social icons with animated effects texttyper fancy line with animation effects modal popup add modal box in your content info list text blocks connected together in one list google trends show google trends tooltip icons show icons with tooltip testimonial show client comments as testimonial headings display stylish headings highlight box beautiful designed buttons for highlight image swap image over image hover effects accordion vertically stacked list of items info circle express info about your work before after image compare the images top rated collection of plugins and themes 2020 20 best personal blog wordpress themes 2020 top 10+ best review wordpress themes 2020 10 best nightclub wordpress themes 2020 installation go to plugins in your dashboard and select ‘add new’ search for ‘mega addons for wpbakery page builder’ and install it. go to pages and create design with help of viusal composer page builder. fill some additional informations. now visit your site faq i activated the mega addons plugin but i cannot see it in the dashboard pannel? it is the extension of wpbakery page builder so you must have wpbakery page builder plugin to use my plugin. it works with wpbakery page builder. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. how to add background image in info banner? select background image from “design options” category. you can see its demo at the end of page http://addons.topdigitaltrends.net/info-banner/ activating plugin causes “500 server error” let’s take a look at how to go about troubleshooting the internal server error in wordpress. it may solve the problem. https://www.youtube.com/watch?time_continue=387&v=qj4tfvmlcjs reviews useful and maintained geokongr february 14, 2020 carefully crafted and maintained, provides useful elements. personally i find the modal pop-up very convenient. does what it says on the box ozlady october 13, 2019 performs as described and adds some cool layouts to wpbakery. cool stuff! takaacstamaas october 9, 2019 great features and performance optimisation. great support ilpoffice october 7, 2019 i had a question about options with the accordion and was surprised to get a nearly immediate response. with just a couple back and forth emails, i was able to get my question resolved right away - features are great with this plugin but even more than that i really appreciate super fast and helpful support! carousel and slider are solid! katetorrence october 2, 2019 i've tried a few other plugins that have a slider or carousel and had problems with being able to see both frontend or backend editor. both fe & be are visible and accessible with mega addons. in addition, the options for changing arrow size and color, headings, fade or slide time... are all easy to use and navigate. this was exactly what i needed for our products page to display a few images of the main product and the below a longer slider with the related products. i did have an issue with links when i was running two different carousel plugins, but i just contacted support here and they helped me find the solution. btw...the solution was to change to using only the mega addons slider in both areas on my web page. it was actually a great idea. mega addons had everything i needed for both carousels. great plugin kindking september 4, 2019 very useful plugin. read all 46 reviews contributors & developers “mega addons for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors nasir179125 smokehunt translate “mega addons for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 4.0 this version have a lot of improvements and bug fixed. previous version 3.1 had major updates without new release. we have fully update the plugin now. note: please make sure to backup your previous version if you are updating plugin from 2.3 because desing can be change. 3.1 this verion have some changes in settings so please make sure to backup your previous version and design. your design can be change on updating the plugin so first test it on other server or localhost. these settings will effect on font size, padding, height width and url given to elements. if you update the plugin by mistaken then simply revert the old version 2.3 and settings will be back. you can download it from plugin uri on wordpress.org now you can disable unused elements from dashboard to speed up your page loading time. we fixed too much bugs in new version and made more responsive design. you can add custom settings for mobile devices. info box: addition of wp-editor option for description field and box shadow and “link to” options. accordion: options of collapseable + animation + mouseover and clickable, plus panel height issue resolved. addition: width & height option for image hover effects. image alt attribute in all elements. remove “photobook” element. flip box css fixed rotation problem price table: 2 more design. addition: text color & background color onhover for button in modal popup element. addition: border style option in image swap element. extra spaces removed from interactive banner design. 2.3 in this version we are just letting you know that a new beta version 3.0 will be release soon which will have alot of changes so please make sure to backup your previous version. you can download the beta version from given link:- https://addons.topdigitaltrends.net/mega-addons-beta-version/ 2.2 bug fixed: info banner mobile responsive issue bug fixed: modal popup play randomly video onclick. remove: flip box bold heading pro version available with much more options and designs. in pro version, you can disable unused elements from dashboard to speed up your page loading time. 2.1 fixed: info banner mobile responsive issue added: add link to image in member profile changes: price table setting changes fixed: some bugs 2.0 notice: please make sure to backup your previous version. this update has a large amount of changes and many new features are added. feel free to ask on support forum regarding any issues before leaving a low star rating. thanks 1.0 first version meta version: 4.0 last updated: 3 weeks ago active installations: 70,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 tags: all in one pluginvisual composerwpbakery page builder advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 37 4 stars 1 3 stars 0 2 stars 1 1 star 7 contributors nasir179125 smokehunt support issues resolved in last two months: 1 out of 4 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.