got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... meghan markle & prince harry secretly moved to los angeles amid coronavirus pandemic?! whut?! home › meghan markle › meghan markle & prince harry secretly moved to los angeles amid coronavirus pandemic?! whut?! while the world is trying its best to listen to kylie jenner and stay inside their homes amid the coronavirus pandemic, meghan markle and prince harry apparently thought it would be great timing to pack up and move their family out of canada — and head to los angeles, a city currently under total lockdown! that’s right, perezcious readers. according to a people source, the wayward royals have left the multi-million dollar manor they were staying in on vancouver island and are now settled in meg’s hometown of el lay. the insider says the duke and duchess of sussex have been living in a secluded compound and thankfully haven’t ventured out amid the covid-19 crisis. related: meghan & harry offer tips for dealing with social distancing while the couple and their 10-month-old son archie harrison had been enjoying their time away from the spotlight in canada on the heels of their historic announcement that they were stepping down as senior royals, the pair were said to have been eyeing la as their next nesting grounds. meghan, of course, has a big support system in la la land, including her mother doria ragland and several pals who had visited the couple in canada. so we figured this move would come eventually. but fleeing the land of maple leaf for a crowded metropolis right now? in the middle of a deadly outbreak? we hate to say it (don’t @ us, sussexes), but that does not sound very responsible! we love el lay, of course, but canada just seems like a better place to wait out the covid-19 storm — especially considering how much baby archie was said to love “being outside in nature.” as we reported, a source told us weekly last month: “meghan takes a walk with archie every single day through the woods. she either pushes him in a stroller through the paved trails through the public woods by their home or straps him on and walks the more rustic routes. the walks usually last around an hour or two, but she takes them daily.” have fun trying to do that at runyon canyon, gurl! related: meghan believes prince william & harry ‘will patch things up eventually’ the news comes as meghan’s first post-royal gig was announced: the former suits star has provided the narration for the upcoming disneynature documentary, elephants, streaming on april 3 on disney+. meanwhile, across the pond, it was recently announced that harry’s father prince charles tested positive for the coronavirus. what do u think about harry and meg’s mid-pandemic move, perezcious readers? [image via wenn] related posts royals ‘stunned & horrified’ by meghan & harry’s move to usa?? royals respond very differently to prince charles getting coronavirus! dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton meghan markle believes prince william & prince harry ‘will patch things up eventually’ click click click next article next article mar 26, 2020 4:07pm pdt share this categories coronavirus for reals estate health meghan markle prince harry royals royce travel view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy