login cheezburger search latest posts memebase channels memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation memebase login submit memebase animal crossing memes in honor of the game's release on switch memebase damn memebase quarantined cat memes for your isolated entertainment memebase favorite existential animal comics from 'chats with the void' share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email the world is going up in flames and quarantine/lockdown ain't helping the existential crises we are already plagued with. fortunately for all of us cooped up in our homes, chats with the voidis here to provide some dark, existential and sometimes wholesome animal comics to keep us sane. if you like what you see, give 'em a follow on instagram or twitter. view list repost - vote - recaption comments chats with the void animal comics cute animals dark humor funny animal comics existentialism funny animals existential memebase favorite classic share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via u/ellyclark repost - vote - recaption seriously, people need to learn how to have a conversation. comments stupid memes boys funny memes dank memes memes girls memes about texting texting funny memebase favorite memes with no mention of the scary stuff that's happening share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's thursday. it's thursday, and everything is great. the sun is shining, there's a roof over our heads, and the economy is totally killing it. healthcare and medial supplies are readily available to all who need them, and everyone has jobs. and there are memes. lots and lots of memes. memes that have nothing to do with a pandemic that definitely isn't happening. view list repost - vote - recaption comments stupid memes random memes relatable funny memes corona-free dank memes memes twitter memes tweets funny tweets memebase favorite dungeons & dragons memes for anyone who wants them share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you're in lockdown and craving some dungeons & dragons action, this gallery might help you out. it's filled with nerdy comics, memes, and tumblr posts that any d&d fan will relate to. view list repost - vote - recaption comments funny comics tumblr relatable dnd funny memes dank memes dungeons & dragons funny tweets nerdy memes funny webcomics dungeons and dragons web comics memebase favorite the dank drop: 25 of our favorite dank memes of the week (3-21 to 3-27) share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's that time of week again! that's right, it's time for the dank drop, where we bring you some of our favorite dank gems from the week. this week we've got a whole mix of content for you that we think you're gonna like! check out last week's dank drop here! view list repost - vote - recaption comments wtf reddit memes funny memes dank memes trending memes dank drop trending best memes reddit weird memebase favorite forty-five random tidbits for maximum enjoyment share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we're all about maximizing your enjoyment, so we hope you can appreciate these dumb and entertaining memes we threw together for you. now have at 'em! you'll thank us later. view list repost - vote - recaption comments stupid memes twitter entertainment random memes dumb memes funny memes entertaining shitposts twitter memes funny tweets memebase favorite forty-three random memes to help you waste time share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email wasting time is often inadvisable because you do have to go out and live your life sometimes, but right now is not that time. we're all stuck inside bored out of our minds basically wasting away due to being in quarantine, so why not try to make that time go by faster with some memes? view list repost - vote - recaption comments stupid memes twitter entertainment random memes dumb memes funny memes entertaining shitposts twitter memes funny tweets memebase favorite no one knows share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via leosenior repost - vote - recaption literally, not a soul in the world knows. comments nickelodeon 2020 tv shows kids shows funny memes quarantine sick nick covid-19 coronavirus icarly memebase favorite 30 expert tinder bios from amateur comedians share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email swiping through tinder can often be a supremely thankless and tedious activity. everyone's looking for their "partner in crime," and everyone likes pizza and craft beer. every now and then, however, a bio comes along that speaks volumes. a bio that showcases humor and intellect. if you're lucky the photos will be stimulating, too. this is a collection of the bios we like - may we all stumble upon them in our hunt for love. view list repost - vote - recaption comments sex tinder funny memes relationships memes funny tinder bios dating apps funny dating memebase favorite twitter thread: guy uncovers story behind the triscuit brand name share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you're based in the united states, we're willing to bet that you've tried a triscuit. the almost woven layers of crispy wheat wafers are an addictive treat. but what does "triscuit" mean, exactly? after a charged debate at a party, twitter user @sageboggs was determined to find out. and after some digging, boggs shared his discovery with his followers. while finding the historical background of a cracker's name might not seem exciting to some of you, those of us who are in quarantine or lockdown probably feel differently. bring on the useless trivia, baby. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter twitter thread triscuit triscuits memebase favorite twenty-eight memes from 'tiger king,' our new favorite show share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email if you haven't seen the netflix docu-series tiger king, then you're missing out on what literally everyone is talking about right now. the show follows the life of joe exotic, owner of the greater wynnewood exotic animal park in oklahoma, and the nation's most prolific breeder of tigers (according to him). and yes, it gets even crazier than that. scroll down for some of our favorite reaction memes to the show! view list repost - vote - recaption comments tiger king wtf white trash docuseries tv shows funny memes redneck tiger documentary weird animals memebase favorite smart move share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via leosenior repost - vote - recaption it's official, tom holland is both cute and clever. comments tom holland news isolation chicken headline eggs actor quarantine food spider-man covid-19 coronavirus memebase favorite twenty wholesome memes to lift those spirits up share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we all need a regular dose of wholesome content right now for obvious reasons. that's why we threw these memes together for you in hopes that they'll lift your spirits. here's even more wholesome content, because you deserve it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments wholesome dogs adorable cute memes good news funny memes cute uplifting wholesome memes coronavirus animals memebase favorite 17 american healthcare memes that'll remind you to never ever get sick share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email it's no secret that the american healthcare system isn't known for being the best in the world. if you're poor and need to have some sort of procedure done in a hospital, you can look forward to a hefty bill that may or may not put you into debt for years to come. and if you aren't fortunate enough to receive a health insurance plan through your employer? well, we don't even want to think about that... here are 17 memes and tweets that highlight the trials and tribulations of health insurance in america! view list repost - vote - recaption comments sad depressing wtf united states medicine hospital doctor funny memes medical ambulance america sick healthcare surgery health insurance twitter funny tweets 6h2h7q49 memebase favorite pretty sure that's a sin share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via ramaji7 repost - vote - recaption definitely a sin. comments priest twitter alcohol funny memes wine twitter memes church funny tweets christianity communion catholics memebase favorite frustrated millennials want you to know they're not on spring break share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email a host of publications like time and the philadelphia daily news have been reporting that millennials are spreading coronaviruswith their careless spring break partying. there's just one issue: the spring breakers are actually zoomers. and millennials are pissed about it. as the patronizing reports beg millennials to stay inside, the generation is fighting back with tweetsaimed at educating writers who are too lazy to check their facts. while the exact age range differs, it's generally accepted that the millennial generation was born between 1981 and 1996. that would make the youngest of the generation 23 or 24. a little old to be partying while on break from school. and on twitter, the generation is determined to make it clear that they'd rather be baking bread in isolation than taking shots in miami. plus, most of us simply can't afford it. view list repost - vote - recaption comments millennial tweets generation z isolation millennials funny memes social distancing zoomers twitter memes quarantine spring break funny tweets covid-19 coronavirus funny upvoted 569 17 american healthcare memes that'll remind you to never ever get sick 342 memes that roast celebrities 'coping' with quarantine 327 40 disgruntled people who are having a worse day than you 218 60 memes to help you through life's thankless hell 149 forty-three random memes to help you waste time hot today 1 60 memes to help you through life's thankless hell 2 forty-three random memes to help you waste time 3 40 disgruntled people who are having a worse day than you 4 frustrated millennials want you to know they're not on spring break 5 random history facts help to dominate at trivia (36 facts) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter