877-985-2695 cart en deutsch español français italiano polski português русский 中文 日本語 한국어 sign in join health body hacks common health questions gardening tips herbal oils herbs and spices nutrition plan resolution guide special reports teas videos vitamins and supplements pets articles dogs of the world pet food facts raw food 101 videos fitness articles exercises fitness plan videos food facts recipes fruits meat nuts and seeds poultry seafood vegetables ketogenic diet recipes blogs shop about dr. mercola english select language deutsch español français italiano polski português русский 中文 日本語 한국어 shop health body hacks common health questions gardening tips herbal oils herbs and spices nutrition plan resolution guide special reports teas videos vitamins and supplements pets pets articles dogs of the world pet food facts raw food 101 videos fitness fitness articles exercises fitness plan videos food facts recipes recipes fruits meat nuts and seeds poultry seafood vegetables ketogenic diet recipes blogs about dr. mercola contact us disclaimer disclaimer disclaimer: the entire contents of this website are based upon the opinions of dr. mercola, unless otherwise noted. individual articles are based upon the opinions of the respective author, who retains copyright as marked. the information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. it is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of dr. mercola and his community. dr. mercola encourages you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional. if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your health care professional before using products based on this content. if you want to use an article on your site please click here. this content may be copied in full, with copyright, contact, creation and information intact, without specific permission, when used only in a not-for-profit format. if any other use is desired, permission in writing from dr. mercola is required. terms & conditions | updated privacy policy © 1997-2020 dr. joseph mercola. all rights reserved. charities and organizations charities and organizations organic consumers association nvic consumers for dental choice regeneration international grassroots health nutrient research institute fluoride alert center for nutrition advocacy cornucopia institute alliance for natural health usa institute for responsible technology caminos de agua organic and natural american botanical council ifoam - organics international canwi mrsa survivors network rabies challenge fund ahvmf mercola.org faq sign in join subscribe to the free #1 natural health newsletter loading please wait advertisement march 27, 2020 top story high heat may kill the coronavirus a recent chinese investigation suggests covid-19 is highly sensitive to this - it kills bacteria, fungi, parasites and viruses and boosts immune function by increasing white blood cells. what's more, it releases heat shock proteins that help block... how to do a proper pullup a pullup is one of the most basic exercises, yet it's among the hardest to perform. it can be effective when it comes to improving your upper body strength, as it targets various muscle groups in the chest, back, shoulders, arms and abdomen. in this... trending news stanford professor states fatality rates at least 10 fold lower than estimates no matter where you look — social media, tv, radio or streaming services — the predictions for deaths due to covid-19 are dire. if the numbers are correct, then millions upon millions of people are destined to die before the pandemic is... trending news what to do if you’re feeling emotionally devastated in times like this, when jobs are shut down and you’re shut inside your home and feeling shut out from the world, it’s easy to become so emotionally devastated that you consider desperate — and sometimes deadly — ways to deal... march 27, 2020 newsletter archive march 26, 2020 top story coping with coronavirus anxiety, isolation and loneliness if you're anxious about getting infected with novel coronavirus or worried about the health of family members, consider trying this proven technique to ease your anxiety. takes just minutes, and allows you to get in control of how you're feeling. average sleep time drops, increasing health risk surveys show more people are sleeping less and are more exhausted. health consequences are significant but may be mitigated using simple strategies. trending news trump wants coronavirus shutdown to end by easter — will it? as large swaths of the u.s. move to tighten restrictions on public gatherings, president trump wants to move in the opposite direction and end the shutdowns by easter, april 12. health experts claim the target date is too soon and could cause even... trending news ny hospitals using vitamin c for seriously sick patients in a move based on reports coming out of china, a pulmonologist in long island, new york, is treating intensive care patients with high-dose, intravenous vitamin c. “each dose is more than 16 times the national institutes of health’s... march 26, 2020 newsletter archive march 25, 2020 top story what is the best disinfectant for surfaces? what's the best way to keep your home surfaces clear of covid-19 without creating dangerous airborne fumes? while some household cleaners don't effectively kill the coronavirus, giving you a false sense of security, this super-version of an everyday... why we minimize risks of alcohol alcohol is an accepted part of most societies yet may be among the most dangerous substances, illegal or legal, that exist. the alcohol lobby has buried the harms with favorable media spin. can you safely give birth at home? home births, once the norm, are currently increasing in number as evidence demonstrates they are a secure option for most women. before you choose, make an informed birth plan. trending news how to protect your privacy in a covid-19 world in an electronic world where a gps can pinpoint your location wherever a satellite beam can reach, covid-19 has sparked a new threat to your personal privacy. using smartphone location data, credit card purchases and surveillance camera footage,... march 25, 2020 newsletter archive march 24, 2020 top story the national plan to vaccinate every american it looks like the coronavirus vaccine will be the first genetically engineered messenger rna vaccine to be fast-tracked to licensure, but will it be studied long enough to adequately demonstrate safety - especially if you already possess these... coronavirus vaccine will bypass safety testing safety testing for vaccines typically leaves much to be desired, but when it comes to fast-tracked pandemics, it becomes next to nonexistent. and what's on the horizon with the coronavirus vaccine will make your blood boil. do we need a gmo banana? genetic engineering has been touted as the only way to save bananas from extinction, but a partnership has developed a 100% organic banana that's naturally disease resistant and non-gmo, offering the best of both worlds - a banana that's natural and... trending news espionage and trade theft: 3 charged in china-related cases it may sound like a “mission impossible” movie plot but, in reality, truth again proves stranger than fiction, with the arrests of two chinese nationals and a harvard professor, all charged with espionage, theft of trade secrets and... march 24, 2020 newsletter archive march 23, 2020 top story which soap is best for preventing outbreaks? based on a 2019 study in the risk analysis journal, this is one of the biggest enablers of infectious pathogens, helping them spread like wildfire. if you must frequent them, please be vigilant about washing your hands and steer clear of these eight... have you been eating high-priced fake honey? some of the honey at your store may have been altered enough to still resemble honey, but it still may not be pure honey. get yours from a local producer and know how to test it at home. can ginger help ulcerative colitis? ulcerative colitis, one form of inflammatory bowel disease (ibd), can cause debilitating symptoms that interfere with your ability to carry out and enjoy daily activities. ginger's anti-inflammatory and antioxidant power shows promise for reducing... weekly health quiz: coronavirus, plastic and obesity take this week's quiz to see how well you remember what you read on mercola.com last week. march 23, 2020 newsletter archive march 22, 2020 top story bfr training for health and well-being in the 50-plus years i've been so passionate about exercise, i've never seen any fitness method as beneficial for health as this one. originating from japan, this safe method (even for the elderly) can help you build muscle, as well as grow more... bioweapons expert speaks out about novel coronavirus originating in wuhan city, china, it's rapidly spreading across the world and it certainly didn't originate from infected bat soup. here's what you're not being told. trending news coronavirus - a useful virus for the elite when a pandemic hits, the frenzy it causes allows the elite and powerful quite a few liberties that go unnoticed. learn what they are by reading here . trending news how the cdc’s ineptitude on covid-19 testing program greatly contributed to the us epidemic a recent article by the atlantic explains what could have been done sooner to help prevent the spread of covid-19 in the united states and what actions should be taken moving forward. read the article here . march 22, 2020 newsletter archive march 21, 2020 top story the truth about sleep many people don't realize how they may be harming their heart and brain when they do this. but research shows it prematurely ages your heart, raises your blood pressure and promotes vascular inflammation. plus, it can fuel your risk for alzheimer's. the impact of effective handwashing against infection do you know how to effectively wash your hands? it's one of the top recommended strategies to reduce your risk of getting a cold or flu. when it's done this way, it takes just 20 seconds. trending news why you don’t want to take aspirin or motrin for covid-19 this video helps clear up the confustion regarding the consumption of nsaid medications such as ibuprofen and naproxen in conjunction with covid-19. trending news level 4 travel advisory issued for us citizens the u.s. state department announced a level 4: do not travel advisory on thursday, urging u.s. citizens to stay home, cancel international trips and return home if they are currently abroad. the advisory is the state department’s most severe... march 21, 2020 newsletter archive most searched 1vitamin c coronavirus 2coronavirus 3vitamin c 4vitamin d 5ketogenic diet 6magnesium 7blood pressure 8collagen 9ashwagandha 10cbd oil 11zinc 12quercetin health guides food facts what are garbanzo beans good for? recipes succulent vanilla chia custard vitamins and supplements bromelain can help abate inflammation herbal oils putting the spotlight on coriander seed oil teas discover why fenugreek tea has stood the test of time herbs and spices the many benefits of sage, the 'savior' herb body hacks what happens to your body when you eat gluten? subscribe and get access to my all-time top 30 health tips! loading please wait you'll also receive my free natural health newsletter | privacy policy more health news health ten ways to burn more calories when you work out these 10 tips will rev up your calorie-burning engine without you even knowing. one tip can shorten your workout time, and this other trick had study participants working out longer and harder by as much as 200%! spice up your boring and lackluster ... health how to properly do calf raises calf raises may look simple, but did you know that they target a challenging muscle group? this guide will show you how to perform calf raises properly, along with learning about other variations of this move you can do at home or the gym. children's health childhood stress can make you ill as an adult could this be what's really making you sick? linked to heart disease, mental illness, dementia, nicotine and alcohol addiction - and that's just the beginning. finally, a doctor has got to the bottom of this significant health risk almost everyone o... alzheimer's can moderate drinking decrease alzheimer's brain proteins? moderate drinkers had a lower rate of beta-amyloid deposits in their brains compared to abstainers, leading researchers to suggest it could have a protective effect against alzheimer's disease. but there's more to the picture when it comes to alcoho... pollution is plastic recycling just a big fraud? if you put your plastic wastes in your recycling bin, they'll be recycled, right? that's what industry wants you to believe, anyway. but are they lying to you by claiming these kinds of single-use products are really recyclable when they're not? sustainability why is it so hard to compost our waste? composting conserves limited landfill space, reduces methane gas emissions and pulls carbon dioxide out of the air, sequestering it in the soil. yet many do not participate in this important and easy practice. toxic substance pfas chemical producers under criminal investigation manufacturers of the chemical alphabet soup in your food packaging are under scrutiny for the part they've played in driving disease. you may reduce your risk using simple strategies. bacteria/virus will wearing a mask protect you against coronavirus? fear of covid-19 has led to a massive surge in sales of surgical face masks and respirators. while health experts argue that masks won't protect healthy people against infection, previous studies may paint a different story. but, could wearing a mas... vaccines flu vaccines failing seniors yet another study has highlighted influenza vaccination's limited effectiveness in seniors, this time showing that it does nothing to reduce hospitalizations or mortality among elderly people. load more x by continuing to browse our site you agree to our use of cookies, revised privacy policy and terms of service. i agree top subscribe to the free #1 natural health newsletter loading please wait connect with dr. mercola thank you! your purchases help us support these charities and organizations. organic consumers association national vaccine information center mercury free dentistry regeneration international grassroots health nutrient research institute fluoride alert center for nutrition advocacy cornucopia institute alliance for natural health usa institute for responsible technology caminos de agua organic and natural american botanical council ifoam - organics international canwi mrsa survivors network rabies challenge fund ahvmf inside mercola.com about dr. mercola contact us employment opportunities en espanol health articles health videos media inquiries mercola community faq mercola social responsibility press room special reports terms & conditions updated privacy policy sitemap special info sites aspartame cancer fitness fluoride fructose/sugar gmo mercury nutritional typing pets vaccines vitamin d shopping autoship program california supply chains act faqs gmo-free products healthy rewards program low price guarantee online shopping our service commitment premium products product badge glossary return policy shipping policy (domestic) shipping policy (international) store locator wholesale program disclaimer: the entire contents of this website are based upon the opinions of dr. mercola, unless otherwise noted. individual articles are based upon the opinions of the respective author, who retains copyright as marked. the information on this website is not intended to replace a one-on-one relationship with a qualified health care professional and is not intended as medical advice. it is intended as a sharing of knowledge and information from the research and experience of dr. mercola and his community. dr. mercola encourages you to make your own health care decisions based upon your research and in partnership with a qualified health care professional. if you are pregnant, nursing, taking medication, or have a medical condition, consult your health care professional before using products based on this content. if you want to use an article on your site please click here. this content may be copied in full, with copyright, contact, creation and information intact, without specific permission, when used only in a not-for-profit format. if any other use is desired, permission in writing from dr. mercola is required. © 1997-2020 dr. joseph mercola. all rights reserved.