petite anglaise july 17, 2007 palace filed under: good time girl, miam — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:04 am i find a new purpose for my macbook!!!* if ever, dear reader, you feel just a smidgeon uncomfortable after ploughing through a five course meal in a palatial hotel in lisbon (cheap deal, i hasten to add, and i’m not sure i quite strike the right tone with my ripped jeans…), i can wholeheartedly recommend setting a warm macbook on the offending tummy for at least half an hour. it’s working wonders as a digestion aid. truly, it is. in the meantime, i try to have a foodie conversation with my friend meg, who is one of those people who – when she can be bothered to actually blog – is able to write reviews of restaurants without resorting to clichés like “doesn’t the foie gras melt in your mouth?” or “don’t these oysters taste of the sea?” the conversation goes something like this. “well, first of all i had this kind of amuse bouche thing, which was a very small piece of beef on toast with some spready goat’s cheese, nothing special really. and then there was a filo parcel-thing with slices of fig and proper goat’s cheese with rind on, inside. and i think the leaves on the side were watercress, they were a bit peppery, and there were pine nuts: grilled ones. next i had a swordfish medallion with a crispy crust made of prawns and things, and some squid on the side and some unidentified vegetables, a bit like the ones you put in ratatouille. and then a quail stuffed with a special white sausage, on top of some spinach. and it had an egg on top. a quail’s egg. and a sprig of lavender. which had made the egg taste a bit dodgy… and then…” i don’t think i need to go on, do i? if i have any writing talent at all, it is most definitely not of the food critic variety. there were more incidences of “and then” in that last paragraph than in the whole a whole page of the da vinci code. eating, i can do. describing the eating experience, i cannot. so – to cut a long story short – i’ve popped over to lisboa for a few days while tadpole is spending a second week of quality time with her mamie and papy, and i am suitably excited about the prospect of meeting long time blog buddy lucy pepper for the first time, tomorrow. the point of this trip was that it should act as a carrot of sorts, to help me through the pain of finishing tweaking the book (yes, it’s not quite over, but nearly, i hope) and to tide me over until boyfriend and i escape to the cyclades for a fortnight at the end of august. i cannot begin to describe how confusing i find the notion of having someone knock on the door to “turn down the bed” for me. at 6pm. but give me time, and i’ll have these luxury ways off pat. you’ll see. *permission to use opening line format obtained from jonnyb. comments (32) may 24, 2007 pic-nique filed under: good time girl, miam — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:39 am do you blog? are you in paris on saturday 9 june? do we look like the sort of people you would like to spend quality time with? details here, including email for signing yourselves up… comments (25) september 24, 2006 on the menu filed under: miam, tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:08 pm tadpole and i walk hand in hand up the rue de rebeval, bound for home and, as usual, i try to extract some meaningful information from my daughter about what she has been up to that day. our conversation goes something like this. me: “so, what did you do at school today sweetie?” tadpole: “er… something nice” me: “something nice. i see. did you draw some pictures?” tadpole: “no.” me: “read some books?” tadpole: “yes.” me: “what were the books about?” tadpole: “er… i can’t remember.” me: “and what did you have for lunch?” tadple: “chips. and chocolate.” it is like extracting blood from a stone, pulling teeth or trying to establish whether mr frog has a girlfriend. a meeting with her maîtresse last saturday was enlightening: we were told that all children tend to be reluctant to discuss what goes on at school with papa and maman. maybe the school day is so action packed that it all becomes a blur in her tiny head. or she so enjoys having her own little jardin secret that she resents my trying to peep over the top of the hedge. whatever the reason, it is clear that nothing more is forthcoming. i have a fair idea of what a typical day comprises: play, some supervised activities, lunch, storytime, sleep, a stint outdoors, and the fascinatingly named motricité sessions held in the school hall. this appears to be a typically french, scientific sounding word for pe, which includes circuit training and teetering about on stilts made from upturned buckets with string handles. there is however one part of tadpole’s day that i can spy on from the comfort of my own home. canteen lunches are detailed on a very helpful website. there is week 38 in all its glory. accompanied by an illustration of a dragon flying through the sky with two suitcases in his hands. chips and chocolate indeed. on the day in question the menu was, in fact: betteraves (beetroot) * * * * * rôti de dinde (roast turkey) gratin de blettes (gratin of ??????) * * * * * petit-suisse (sort of fromage frais thing) the mind boggles. my very own little miss fussy has been busy eating things i don’t even have the wherewithall to translate. my first thought on “blettes” was cockroaches – until, happily, i realised i was confusing “blettes” with “blattes”. extensive web research yielded “swiss chard”. now let me see, i may have tasted it once, in nice, in the filling of my ravioli niçoise, but until i looked on google images, i couldn’t have told you whether it takes the form of a bean, a root vegetable or a leaf. tadpole eats swiss chard? swiss chard gratin? my daughter, the same child who refuses to mix peas and carrots (canned) in the same forkful? who invariably turns up her nose at any item she has never tasted before? and which sadistic dinner lady dreamt up the idea of feeding beetroot to 3 year olds? clearly one who won’t have to wash their clothes afterwards. i suppose i should be thankful that tadpole appears to be getting a balanced diet, something jamie oliver would no doubt work himself into a lather of enthusiasm over. later that evening, i decide to give the interrogation one last try, fortified with this new information. me: “so, did you have some beetroot for lunch? some little purple squares? some betteraves?” tadpole: “no, i had chips and chocolate. and cereals. and after, i had a strawberry milkshake!” i can’t help giggling. not only is she maintaining her barefaced lie, but now the little monster is embroidering around it, adding increasingly implausible embellishments. tadpole: “mummy! why you laughing?” i snort apple juice out of my nose. tadpole: “is it because i talking rubbish?” comments (98) august 31, 2006 missing in action filed under: city of light, good time girl, miam — petiteanglaiseparis @ 12:50 pm i take my seat with a group of girlfriends at l’apparemment café, an old haunt of mine deep inside the marais, opposite the musée picasso, where you can choose from a long list of mouth-watering ingredients – sun dried tomatoes, artichokes, fresh marinated anchovies – to build your own salad. except it is sunday today and i had completely forgotten that on the day of our lord they serve only brunch. this would be perfect if i hadn’t already ploughed through a copious pain quotidien brunch the day before, a major blowout involving lashings of praline spread, confiture de lait and other sinful concoctions which, if they didn’t taste so good, might as well be applied directly to the thigh area with a palette knife. waving my healthy salad goodbye, i settle in for the long haul: juice, coffee, a boiled egg, mountains of crusty bread, pancakes with maple syrup, a cheese platter (the french always seem to add a random unnecessary savoury dish into every brunch menu, which i never have room for), fromage blanc and blackberry coulis… and conversation. “i can’t believe you snogged two guys on the dancefloor last night. seriously, you are a menace to society!” my friend blushes, as she has only just arrived, doesn’t know the other ladies present particularly well. she should be used to me by now. “no”, she says, recovering her composure remarkably quickly, “they were the menace to society. fancy reaching your mid-thirties and not knowing how to kiss. appalling. one of them had a technique like a washing machine. his tongue went round and round in a clockwise motion, then suddenly went into reverse and swept round and round in the other direction. it was so, well, mechanical.” she shudders at the memory. all this talk of domestic appliances calls to mind the last person who chatted me up: a darty man who delivered my new cooker. granted, i indulged in a little eyelash fluttering, but only because i wanted him to take away an old refrigerator left in the apartment by my predecessors, and that wasn’t strictly his job… the result was ten or more messages left on my mobile in semi-literate text speak before my suitor finally drew the appropriate conclusions from my resounding silence. “men just seem like too much trouble right now, i don’t even have time to do all my own stuff, let alone take anyone else into account,” i say, almost thinking aloud. “mind you, i kind of wish my favourite toy hadn’t gone missing when i moved.” because, yes, of all the things that could have inexplicably failed to materialise when i unpacked my boxes, it had to be that. i live in fear of it turning up at an inopportune moment (say, during a visit from my ex-mother in law). embarrassment potential: critical. comments (121) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel