home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership michael and megan answer your questions michael and megan 00:27:16 download transcript leaders are expected to have all the answers. but sometimes they need to get insight from other leaders to stay on top of their game. in this episode, we reached out to our instagram audience for their most pressing questions for michael and megan. they bring practical solutions to the problems many leaders face, based on more than 30 years of business experience. in this episode, you’ll discover— the one significant change michael and megan would make in their work if they could go back and do it over again. suggestions for finding a job at a place like michael hyatt and company. how to stand out in the workplace and rise in your organization. tips for adjusting your morning and evening rituals when you’re traveling or on an alternate schedule. whether or not you should ask your employer for a different position that you are more passionate about. how to determine if you should fire a toxic client. advice on giving difficult feedback and maintaining mutual respect. have we seen you on instagram? if not, we’d love to. that’s our current favorite social channel and the source of this episode’s questions. we both love to interact with listeners there. follow us @michaelhyatt and @meganhyattmiller. you’ll get a peek behind the scenes as we record the podcast, launch new products, and even share some family fun. this is your very best way to keep in touch, and we’d love to see you there! resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe michael hyatt and company job openings inc. best places to work posted on tuesday, february 18, 2020 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed