home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more book michael hyatt & company’s speaking team for your next event inspire your audience with the strategy, tools, and insight to win at work and succeed at life. book speaker you don’t have to choose according to the department of commerce, 80% of new businesses fail within the first five years. the reward for the winners? an ongoing struggle to balance the demands of business with the responsibilities of life. society tells us that if we work harder and longer, we’ll achieve more . . . but all too often, this is just a recipe for burnout, exhaustion, and business failure. you don’t have to choose between work and life if you want to succeed. at michael hyatt & company, we believe in a better way. we teach the double win: winning at work and succeeding at life. no more 80-hour work weeks. no more stagnated results. no more wondering if what you’re doing is actually worth the effort. by booking michael hyatt’s speaking team, you can inspire your audience to accelerate their results without overwhelm and exhaustion. book speaker today michael hyatt michael hyatt is the chief executive officer and founder of michael hyatt & company. he has scaled multiple companies over the years, including a $250m publishing company with 700+ employees and his own leadership development company that has grown over 60% year over year for the past 4 years. under his leadership, michael hyatt & company has been featured in the inc. 5000 list of the fastest-growing companies in america for three years in a row. he is also the author of several new york times, wall street journal, and usa today bestselling books, including platform, living forward, your best year ever, and free to focus. he enjoys the double win with his wife of 40+ years, five daughters, and nine grandchildren. megan hyatt miller megan hyatt miller is the chief operating officer at michael hyatt & company. she is also the co-host of the lead to win podcast, which is consistently featured in the top 100 of itunes. as a leader of leaders, she is the grand architect of michael hyatt and company’s successful, achievement-focused culture. today, she teaches other companies how to practically craft a company culture that makes the double win effortless. she enjoys free time with her husband and five children. the team dedicated to the double win™ michael hyatt’s speaking team cares that business owners and leaders win at work and succeed at life. not only do they embody the double win in their personal lives, but they teach it from their in-the-trenches experience scaling companies across different industries. chad cannon blake stratton deidra romero neal samudre courtney baker trey dunavant a talk with life-changing results the double win a 4-step approach to scaling your business revenue while working less too many business leaders try to scale their businesses by focusing on everything at once. if everything is the focus, nothing is the focus, and results crumble. the double win reveals a proven four-part framework for growing your business with ease and clarity without adding more hours to your work week. if your audience follows this step-by-step process, they’ll leverage the power of focus to scale their results faster. our clients consistently grow their revenue by 67% in one year while working 11 hours less per week using this practical and systematic approach. praise for michael hyatt & the speaking team “as the event planner, working with michael and his team before the event was not only smooth but fun. these folks are great. they made my job so much easier… they are still talking about his presentation months later!” bo barron vp of organization development, sperry van ness international “delivering a message with authority born of experience, michael hyatt & company has given a voice to a generation of leaders, illuminating the path to great influence. they challenge me to be my best and walk the talk!” mark miller vice president, organizational effectiveness chick-fil-a “believe me, i have heard many ceos address an audience. i have only seen one, however, with the unique ability to combine humor and content, then deliver it with credibility and a humble attitude. michael hyatt is the very best.” andy andrews new york times bestselling author and international speaker “when we invite outside speakers to our conferences, we feel fortunate if they get to first base. michael hyatt hits home runs.” ken davis president, dynamic communicators, inc. author, entertainer, trainer “in an environment where change is a constant and plans rarely survive first contact, michael hyatt and company's techniques on goal setting, time management, and focused execution have made a profound difference. in particular, blake stratton's presentation struck a chord with the balance that is missing in the majority of our team's lives - he clearly showed how despite our operational tempo, we can both succeed at work and win at life.” eric scherrer major, united states marine corps “michael hyatt has a knack for making the complex simple.” dan sullivan president, the strategic coach inc. interested in booking a speaker from michael hyatt & co.? complete the form below and your team will be in contact with you shortly. tell us about yourself name* first last organization job title email* phone* tell us about your event event title who is the event serving? number of people attending event date date format: mm slash dd slash yyyy event location include city & state who are you interested in booking? michael hyattmegan hyatt millerthe speaking teamany of the above why are you interested in having us at your event? email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed