australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 01:11 edt | updated 7 hours ago michigan's gretchen whitmer fires back after trump slams 'young woman governor' he probably won't forget her name now. by ed mazza, huffpost us president donald trump on thursday once again said the nation’s governors should be “doing more” to combat the covid-19 coronavirus pandemic and not rely so heavily on the federal government for help. he claimed most governors “have been fantastic,” but then took a few potshots at washington’s jay inslee (d) and michigan’s gretchen whitmer (d), whose name he either forgot or simply didn’t want to mention. “we’ve had a big problem with the young, a woman governor, you know who i’m talking about from michigan,” he told sean hannity of fox news in a telephone interview. “we don’t like to see the complaints.” michigan has one of fastest rates of growth in coronavirus infections, now approaching 3,000 confirmed cases and 60 deaths. however, the state has struggled to get essential supplies including protective gear for hospital workers, and whitmer is calling on trump to issue a major disaster declaration for the state and the emergency support that comes with it. trump did not indicate if that declaration would be forthcoming. however, he said this week that federal aid will only flow to states that “treat us well.” “it’s a two-way street,” he said on fox news on tuesday. trump told hannity on thursday that whitmer has “not been pleasant” and said “all she does is sit there and blame the federal government.” whitmer went on twitter to set the record straight: hi, my name is gretchen whitmer, and that governor is me 👋 i've asked repeatedly and respectfully for help. we need it. no more political attacks, just ppes, ventilators, n95 masks, test kits. you said you stand with michigan — prove it. https://t.co/ftwltlzdqw — governor gretchen whitmer (@govwhitmer) march 27, 2020 she added that she gets along well with vice president mike pence, who is leading trump’s coronavirus response: ps: i’m happy to work with the vp! we get along well. pic.twitter.com/otjja9pwhd — governor gretchen whitmer (@govwhitmer) march 27, 2020 a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction ed mazza overnight editor, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus sean hannity michigan covid-19 gretchen whitmer trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too coronavirus in condos: what residents should know about covid-19 subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.