penn state homepage | college of the liberal arts need a 202 course? read our scheduling a 202 faq skip to content. | skip to navigation site menu & search sections home graduate ba/ma undergrad people centers events news 2019-frontpage 2019 marathon read- myths, legends, and songs around the world liberal arts undergraduate festival cooper-dubois mentoring program race and modernism congratulations brandon erby! congratulations to michael anesko and his editorial team on the recognition they have received from mla. the journal biography has just come out with a special issued edited by ebony coletu on "biographic mediation: personal disclosure in bureaucracy and politics" jonathan eburne won the mla's james russell lowell prize for his new monograph, outsider theory: intellectual histories of unorthodox ideas carla mulford has been awarded a grant from the humboldt yale history network travel grants program. rachael wiley has been promoted to the rank of associate teaching professor. layli miron has successfully defended her doctoral dissertation, reframing immigration through religious advocacy: rhetoric, cosmopolitanism, and the divine. megan poole has accepted a tenure track position in the english department at the university of louisville. john smilges has been selected as the winner of the 2020 cccc lavender rhetorics award for excellence in queer scholarship's article award congratulations to mary sellers on her contributions to the award winning volume of oxford handbook of folkore studies tina chen's journal verge: studies in global asias won the 2020 prose award for best new journal in the humanities. alex sibo has won the 2020 cindy and dickie selfe dmas fellowship. faith mcdonald has published her first book, on the loving end of crazy: finding hope and help to face your loved one's crippling anxiety and depression. congratulations to suresh canagaraja, whose routledge handbook of language and migration won this year's aaal book award. aldon nielsen was the keynote speaker at this year's ala symposium on american poetry. toby thompson's new book: fired on: targeting western american art, to be published on march 15th by bangtail press. an issue of minnesota reivew (issue 94) that christian haines co-edited with peter hitchcock come out. postponed: "unsavory rhetorics in virginia woolf's feminism" canceled: adalber salas hernandez cals symposium: "disability and american literary studies" congratulations to derek lee who accepted a job as assistant professor of english at wake forest university college of the liberal arts search this site search google search penn state web search penn state people search penn state accounts search penn state departments you are here: home › people › michael bérubé info michael bérubé edwin erle sparks professor of literature 219 burrowes building mailroom: 430 burrowes building university park , pa 16802 email: mfb12@psu.edu office phone: (814) 863-8663 office hours: spring 2020: not teaching; office hours by appointment. curriculum vitae download cv education ph.d., university of virginia, 1989 m.a., university of virginia, 1986 b.a., columbia university, 1982 professional bio michael bérubé is edwin erle sparks professor of literature and immediate past chair of the university faculty senate at pennsylvania state university, having served as chair in 2018-19. he is the author of ten books to date, including public access: literary theory and american cultural politics (verso, 1994); life as we know it: a father, a family, and an exceptional child (pantheon, 1996; paper, vintage, 1998); and what’s liberal about the liberal arts? classroom politics and “ bias” in higher education (w. w. norton, 2006). life as we know it was a new york times notable book of the year for 1996 and was chosen as one of the best books of the year (on a list of seven) by maureen corrigan of national public radio. in 2015 he published the humanities, higher education, and academic freedom: three necessary arguments, co-authored with jennifer ruth (palgrave). his ninth book, the secret life of stories: from don quixote to harry potter, how understanding intellectual disability transforms the way we read; was published by nyu press in early 2016; in october 2016, beacon press published life as jamie knows it: an exceptional child grows up, which was written with extensive input from jamie himself. he served three terms on the american association of university professors’ committee a on academic freedom and tenure from 2009 to 2018, two terms on the aaup national council from 2005 to 2011, and two terms on the international advisory board of the consortium of humanities centers and institutes from 2011 to 2017. in 2012 he was president of the modern language association. from 2010 to 2017, he served as the director of penn state's institute for the arts and humanities. areas of specialization american literature after 1900 contemporary literature theory and cultural studies visual culture blogging, film, cartoons, graphic design sort by navigation department administrators & contacts advisers faculty graduate faculty areas of specialization graduate students digital specialist staff up tenured faculty at the campuses emeritus faculty michael bérubé copyright ©2020 college of the liberal arts, the pennsylvania state university | privacy and legal statements contact the web administrators | access the department intranet personal tools log in