wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » showcase » microblog in wordpress with these 15+ tumblr style wordpress themes microblog in wordpress with these 15+ tumblr style wordpress themes last updated on june 22nd, 2012 by editorial staff 30 shares share tweet share pin in wordpress 3.1, a new feature, post formats, was added to the core. the inclusion of post formats have allowed developers to create tumblr style wordpress themes to allow for a better microblogging experience. in this article, we will showcase some of the best tumblr style wordpress themes available to this date. standard theme standard theme is recognized as one of the 8 best premium wordpress themes by mashable, thenextweb called it the slickest wordpress theme ever, and it was also nominated as one of the 25 best commercial wordpress themes of 2010 by wpbeginner. with their recent update, standard theme now fully supports post formats. get 15% off if you use the coupon “wpbegin15“. tumblr style themes from woothemes woothemes is one of the largest wordpress themes provider. they also happen to have the largest collection of tumblr-style wordpress themes along with their tumblr2wp free service, which lets you transfer your tumblr blog to wordpress. cinch crisp elefolio auld slanted retreat you can purchase any of their themes for the price of $70 and take advantage of their buy 1 get 2 free. so you can get three themes for the price of 1. alternatively, you can join their theme club which allows you to access all of their 89 themes, support access to forums and tutorials, regular theme updates, and 2 new themes monthly. tumblr style themes from elegant themes elegant themes is the famous wordpress theme provider known for their best prices ($39 for unlimited access to all of their themes – total available themes 59). they have two beautiful tumblog style wordpress themes available. lightbright dailynotes tumblr style themes from themify nick la and the themify team constantly produce beautifully designed wordpress themes. they have released two very well designed tumblr style wordpress themes since hte launch of wordpress 3.1. wumblr minblr you can use the coupon: “wpbeginner” to get a 20% discount on your purchase. tapestry tapestry is a child theme for the genesis framework. it is the first tumblr style theme by studiopress with more to come. conversate conversate is a twitter-style microblogging wordpress theme with 5 color schemes based on the popular p2 theme by automattic copilot copilot is a wordpress theme which takes advantage of the woothemes tumblog plugin. publish quick posts from wordpress’s dashboard or your iphone using the express app. you can also just use the theme as a regular wordpress theme! myjourney myjourney is a theme created by themefuse which not only is perfect for a personal blog or portfolio, but you can even have fun on the run by posting videos, photos, links and more. multimediawp multimediawp theme is ideal if your site needs to display different types of multimedia content such as audios, videos, images etc. wp notebook wp notebook acts like a conventional wordpress blog and a tumblr-like website – all the while having the benefit of having complete ownership and control over your site content. fast blog fast blog is a wordpress theme with some extra tumblr-like features. it’s perfect for easy blogging and thanks to the wootumblog plugin (included) you can add posts quickly even from a mobile phone. the theme comes with 12 color schemes and tons of other cool options. are you going to add post formats to your theme? 30 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 6 commentsleave a reply 2dolarahs says: nov 3, 2011 at 7:58 am hey impressive collection,thanks for sharing it with us reply mashby says: apr 4, 2011 at 1:14 pm thank you for this article. i’ve been looking for tumblr style themes and your list gave me a lot to consider. now comes the hard part – picking one! thanks again! reply keith davis says: mar 29, 2011 at 12:16 pm hi everyone i recognise a couple of these. the elegant themes one and the genesis framework one. a great collection. thanks for putting it together. so what’s this microblogging – mmmmm reply john saddington says: mar 28, 2011 at 2:37 pm thanks for the http://standardtheme.com shoutout! we love you guys at wpbeginner! reply editorial staff says: mar 29, 2011 at 6:18 am you guys do a kickass job, and all of our users have always said positive words… reply tom mcfarlin says: mar 28, 2011 at 1:50 pm thanks for highlighting standard, we appreciate it! reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) greengeeks coupon get 70% off greengeeks' eco-friendly wordpress hosting plus a free domain. nexthemes coupon get 25% off on nexthemes premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.