home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » light fixture » mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel february 17, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment 50shares facebook twitter pinterest mid-century modern design is a trend that is sweeping the design world by storm. while researching lighting options for millie’s remodel, i curated a list of possible light fixtures. here are some of my favorite mid-century modern lighting options. mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel mid-century modern design style is filled with sleek lines, golds, wood tones, and shapes reminiscent of galactic constellations. while looking for lighting options for the millie’s remodel house, i spent a fair amount of time curating lighting to fit with the modern style. luckily i found a fair amount of light options and a few ceiling fans that would look perfect in any mid-century modern house. disclosure: kichler lighting is a millie’s remodel gold sponsor. i was provided with complimentary fixtures for the house. mid-century chandeliers chandeliers are often the focal point in a room and for good reason. typically they are larger in size, elegance, and number of light bulbs than other fixtures in the home. why not steal the show with one of these mid-century modern style chandeliers? aura 7 light chrome chandelier | pim 6 light oval chandelier | cirus wood pendant style chandelier | eris 8 light nickel chandelier | branches 7 light chandelier | linara 6 light black shade chandelier | armstrong 8 light chandelier | trentino 9 light chandelier | alden 6 light chandelier | maclain brass shade light mid-century modern pendant lights pendant lights might be my favorite light fixtures after chandeliers. with their smaller size, pendants can fit perfectly over a sink, paired in a set of two on either side of a mirror, or in groupings over an island or bar. these are some great options for mid-century modern pendant lights. kordan matte black hourglass pendant | elias 14″ black penant light | alscar 4 light foyer pendant | taubert 3 light foyer pendant | rocklyn hexahedron pendant | antonia 1 light chrome led pendant | 1 light undulating line bronze pendant | maclain brass pendant light | sorno mini gold pendant light mid-century modern ceiling lights when you have low ceilings, flush mount and semi-flush mount light fixtures are a necessity. meet a whole crop of beautiful mid-century modern inspired ceiling lights. trentino 4 light brass lights | alscar 4 light semi-flush light | taubert 4 light square light | alton flush mount light | sylvia brass rail light | sorno 3 light semi-flush mount | beckenham 2 light chrome cube light | armstrong 3 light brass flush mount light mid-century modern wall-mounted lights & sconces bathrooms are the primary location for wall-mounted lights, but look close for other opportunities to use wall-mounted lights. sconces are right at home on either side of a window, doorway, or to add lighting on a staircase. regardless of where you want to install them, here are some great options for mid-century modern wall-mount lights. alden brass 1 light sconce | indeco linear bar | jasper 3 light bath light | linara black wall sconce | armstrong brass 2 light sconce | kordan 2 light wall sconce | charter black sculpture wall sconce | pim 1 light gold wall sconce | beryl 3 light vanity light mid-century modern ceiling fans those of us that live in warmer climates know sometimes you need a ceiling fan paired with your light. there’s nothing like a hot and humid evening to encourage some airflow over your skin to cool off. below are several sources for ceiling fans that pair nicely with mid-century modern furniture and fixures. bisc led fan polished nickel & black fan |lucian 52″ led old bronze fan | ridley ii 52″ brass & wood fan | flyy led 60″ fan olde bronze | jace 60″ walnut fan | arkwright customizable fan motor | incus 56″ bronze & brass fan | zenith 60″ polished nickel & black fan are you embracing the mid-century modern design trend? i’d love to hear which are your favorites. disclosure: kichler lighting is a millie’s remodel gold sponsor. i was provided with complimentary fixtures for the house. 50shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: decor, decorating, designer, electrical, light fixture leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok