content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip author: mike murray mike murray has shaped online marketing strategies for hundreds of businesses since 1997, including fortune 500 companies. a former journalist, he has led seo studies and spoken at regional and national internet conferences. founder of online marketing coach, mike is passionate about helping clients identify their best opportunities for online marketing success based on their strengths, his advice and industry trends. you can find him at his blog, online marketing matters or on twitter @mikeonlinecoach. company news by mike-murray published march 19, 2020 rise up in google serps with the right seo website content are google search engine results holding your content down? google says its mission is to “deliver the most relevant and reliable information available,” but questions sometimes arise about where “relevant” and “reliable” fall with each search query. continue reading company news by mike-murray published february 12, 2020 how to use seo to boost branded keyword rankings on google some seo low-hanging fruit is almost too low. it makes you think you don’t need to try to earn better rankings that generate more traffic. but why settle? you’ll miss countless higher-hanging seo fruit. branded keywords can easily fall into that grasp. by brand, i’m not merely referencing a single keyword like ge or dhl. brands are part of countless keyword phrases: continue reading company news by mike-murray published january 2, 2020 20 seo and keyword tips for your best google rankings in 2020 as you dig in with your seo strategies in 2020, stick with what you do well and prioritize time for organic search tactics you’ve neglected or handled the wrong way. leverage every opportunity that google gives your content to rank well. despite constant changes by google and consumer behavior, a 2019 brightedge study found that organic commands 53% of all website traffic. continue reading company news by mike-murray published december 25, 2019 7 seo myths about google keyword rankings seo myths and misunderstandings abound in the digital marketing world. although a little truth may be buried in some of these misconceptions, it’s best to understand the nuances. here’s my advice: focus first on your users and play fair with search engines. then you won’t need to worry whether you’ll be kicked off google. here’s a closer look at seven seo myths.continue reading company news by mike-murray published june 24, 2019 101+ key performance indicators and tips – make the best kpi choices editor’s note: you may have missed this article when cmi published it a few years ago. we’re sharing it now because choosing the right kpis and measuring your content marketing activities are so important to the business. a long list of key performance indicators (kpis) can be overwhelming, but don’t let that stop you from reading. you don’t need to use them all. you need to use them wisely. you’ll likely see some you already use and discover some you never thought about. reassess your current kpis and see if you’re really measuring performance that matters to your content marketing and business goals. maybe you’ll lock in on the ones that will complement what you have. adapt any of these possibilities to suit your team’s needs.continue reading company news by mike-murray published may 29, 2019 why google keyword rankings still matter for seo editor’s note: you may have missed the original version of this article when cmi published it in 2016. search engine rankings continue to be important for seo so we’ve updated the post to include some fresh examples. do keyword rankings matter anymore? i cringe anytime someone suggests that they don’t. sure, seo changes over the years. but that hardly means it makes sense to overlook search engine rankings. let’s me start with why the question even comes up and then i’ll walk through how you can deal with rankings. along the way, i’ll put some misunderstandings in perspective. continue reading company news by mike-murray published march 28, 2019 57+ content tools, tips, and examples to make your writing better editor’s note: you can’t have too many tips and tools to improve and inspire your writing. that’s why we’ve updated this article from a few years ago with new examples and some new tools. writing isn’t an easy task. whether you craft words for b2b or b2c audiences, the challenges can be many. i’ve created a diverse set of tips, tools, and resources to aid in shaping and modifying your work. it’s not an exhaustive collection. some ideas may seem familiar. some will be fresh. my hope is that you’ll walk away with some insights or new tools to help address or minimize the content creation challenges you face. continue reading company news by mike-murray published february 21, 2019 how to use frequently asked questions (faq) pages as an seo treasure trove poorly conceived website pages devoted to frequently asked questions can confuse and bore users while falling short of their seo potential. if you plan or revise them well, faq pages can pay off for your company for branded and non-branded keywords. continue reading company news by mike-murray published february 4, 2019 2019 seo keywords and google: what’s in your poker hand? strap in tight. 2019 will be a rough ride for keyword rankings and seo professionals will feel the squeeze each time google downplays traditional search engine results. google already promotes no-click search results, often providing answers without the need to click for more details. the no-click (also known as zero click) searches will remain a factor for marketers. referencing data from jumpshot, rand fishkin of sparktoro last year found that 61.5% of google mobile searches are no-click (34.3% with desktop searches). continue reading company news by mike-murray published november 14, 2018 page load time: is it the seo rankings culprit? if you’re concerned about your google rankings and website page load speed, you should keep them in perspective. website developers and marketers buzz about page load time, especially because google announced beginning this past july that speed is a keyword ranking factor for some mobile versions of websites. in a google webmaster central blog post, zhiheng wang and doantam phan write: continue reading 1 2 3 4 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree