editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. editors' blog / analysis & opinion latest 39 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 40 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 43 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime milestone by josh marshall | march 26, 2020 5:29 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. according to the most up to date numbers (worldometers.info), the united states now has more confirmed covid-19 cases than any other country in the world. the johns hopkins data center still has the us a sliver behind. but it will move ahead this evening. it is important to bear in mind that the us has a dramatically larger population than any country in europe. on a per capita basis, almost every major country in europe has more cases. it is nonetheless a grim milestone. key coronavirus crisis links josh marshall’s twitter list of trusted experts (epidemiologists, researchers, clinicians, journalists, government agencies) providing reliable real-time information on the covid-19 crisis. johns hopkins global covid-19 survey (most up to date numbers globally and for countries around the world). covid-19 tracking project (updated data on testing and infections in the u.s.). worldometers.info (extensive source of information and data visualizations on covid-19 crisis — discussion of data here). josh marshall (@joshtpm) is editor and publisher of tpm. have a tip? send it here! more in edblog 4 hours ago where things stand: will we have a grandstander? 5 hours ago national leaders need to take more personal precautions 18 hours ago obscene advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy