home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » millie's remodel » millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! october 25, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments 17shares facebook twitter pinterest millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! come take a peek into the millie’s remodel project house and see the progression as i start to build back after demolition. did i say demolition is finished? i thought it was, but looks like there might be a tad more. let’s take the tour. it’s been a busy few weeks since the demolition. but i want to give you a little tour and show you what’s happened at the millie’s remodel project. there’s a lot of change and the new plumbing and electrical is going in. while the electrician and plumber were running the new lines, i spent my time framing the pocket doorway opening and adding blocking to weak areas under the floor. and although i thought demolition was done, i was only dreaming. want to see the video tour and updates? watch my video filled with behind the scenes footage and a tip below: you can see my plumber has been busy running the new plumbing in the shared powder room and laundry room. i still need to frame the header for the sliding door, but first let me take you on the rest of the tour. i probably spent the better part of the day adding blocking under this section of flooring and other areas where the subfloor was weakened by water damage or where an air duct was added (without additional support for the flooring that was cut.) my plumber has already tied into the old cast iron vent stack. we decided to leave it instead of having to patch the roof where the stack exits the house. my plumber and electrician did work together to remove the insanely heavy old cast iron tub. i don’t know what i’d do without these guys. my siding contractors, stephanie, and i worked together to install the new bathroom window. the old one was wooden with see-through glass. this new window has obscure glass and is made mostly of pvc. in the kitchen, after patching the subfloor, i framed up the half wall for bar seating on the other side of the kitchen. i’m definitely excited to see this new layout come together. i worked with elizabeth burns, a local designer, to help me with kitchen floor plan ideas. she designed a galley style kitchen and i’m thrilled with the plans. i can’t wait to see it in reality! it’s going to be a beautiful light-filled kitchen! out front, you can see the old vinyl siding has been removed and my siding contractors are adding new fascia board and soffits. remarkably the original wood siding (that was under the vinyl) is still solid. i’m planning on cleaning off some of the flaking paint and repainting it. off the back porch, you can see where my brick mason closed up the old doorway into the laundry room. we installed the transom window at the top of the old doorway and i’m excited to have a little bit of natural light coming into the powder room/laundry room. because the old subpanel was in the room that is becoming the new powder room and laundry room, we had to move it to meet building codes. i framed up this little wall, so we could install the subpanel. the other wall had all the studs turned sideways so we didn’t have the depth we needed. but now we do. and we have a new subpanel and wiring installed. isn’t it beautiful? for now i’ve been using the back bedrooms to store the salvaged materials and tiles. thank goodness i have a roof and walls in this house as opposed to the saving etta house. to store materials at etta, i had to buy a storage trailer. i hope you’re enjoying the millie’s remodel updates. getting the framing, electrical, and plumbing finished is a big step forward. after we pass the rough-in inspection, i should be able to get my drywall contractor in to start putting the walls back up! hooray! stay tuned for more updates soon. 17shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: millie's remodel, video comments mary porter says october 26, 2019 at 6:37 am i would love to know expenses as you go along. reply brittany bailey says january 9, 2020 at 1:51 pm i’m contemplating doing a post about the expenses at a later date. reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok