home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » kitchen » millie’s remodel: kitchen design millie’s remodel: kitchen design february 14, 2020 brittany bailey leave a comment 6shares facebook twitter pinterest the kitchen at millie’s remodel has been opened up by removing a wall and the moldy drywall and subfloor have been replaced. now it’s time for me to start thinking about the kitchen design elements for this very important space. millie’s remodel: kitchen design do you remember what the kitchen looked like when i first started working on millie’s remodel? the room was closed off and had two doorways from the house plus a back door. the wall behind the refrigerator needed to come down in my opinion. this would allow for a much more open concept. after tearing down that corner wall, it was amazing how much more light flooded into the kitchen area. plus, it made the kitchen feel more spacious. you may recall i worked with a local designer to create a fresh vision of the kitchen layout. i still have some issues to contend with (like a very sloped kitchen sub-floor). but first i need to create a design plan for the kitchen. a design board will allow me to order cabinets, lighting, and other fixtures. i am leaning toward a mid-century modern vibe in this house, especially since it was built in 1957. simple fixtures and graphic lines will maintain a minimalist modern look. sources: (i’ve included affiliate links for your convenience. i earn a small percentage from a purchase using these links. there is no additional cost to you. you can read more about affiliate links here.) floating shelves (diy) | misha hex tiles | rocklyn pendant lights | gold kitchen faucet | via lactea granite | schlage black modern door lever | charleston driftwood cabinets | gold cabinet pulls i’m excited to start putting this humpty dumpty of a kitchen back together soon and see the finishes installed. i think they’ll look beautiful together. what do you think? p.s. schlage, and kichler are sponsors of the millie’s remodel project. i am so grateful for their support of this project. 6shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: decorating, designer, kitchen, kitchen renovation, millie's remodel leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok