menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login category “mindfulness & peace” 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be by zachary goodson “meditation is the ultimate mobile device; you can use it anywhere, anytime, unobtrusively.” ~sharon salzberg i came home from my doctor’s appointment last week and rambled off three to four different things that were happening in the world as a … stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy by sandy woznicki “health is not just about what you’re eating. it’s also about what you’re thinking and saying.” a virus is spreading across the globe. schools are shut down. people are out of work. grocery stores are empty. weddings, graduations, vacations, a … free online summit to cultivate mindfulness and compassion by lori deschene hi friends! as you may know, i’m always excited to share free events that can help us heal, find peace, and learn to meet each other with more patience, kindness, and compassion. and i’m particularly passionate about mindfulness. the more … how to stay mindful and safe amid the coronavirus outbreak by yurika vu “we cannot always control everything that happens to us in this life, but we can control how we respond.” ~lionel kendrick the coronavirus is no longer isolated to just china. it’s here, affecting over ninety countries, and it continues to … i want to be rich in memories by aida sarsenova “my life isn’t perfect, but it does have perfect moments.” ~unknown practice was over, the hot florida sun was settling in behind the tall bleachers, casting golden rays onto the track. behind me was my dear school, engulfed in beautiful … simple ways to deepen your connection with the natural world by carrie ciula “i only went out for a walk and finally concluded to stay out till sundown, for going out, i found, was really going in.” ~john muir somewhere, stashed away in my collection of childhood memories, i recall having this small … when you focus on yourself, don’t forget everyone else by sonya matejko “time and good friends are two things that get more valuable the older you get.” ~unknown in recent years, we’ve collectively been talking a lot about creating boundaries and letting go of things that no longer serve us. many of … become a certified meditation teacher – train with jack kornfield and tara brach by lori deschene hi friends! since i know many of you are passionate about mindfulness and meditation and creating a more peaceful world, i’m excited to share that jack kornfield and tara brach are accepting applications for their next two-year mindfulness meditation teacher … what to do when you’re stressed, distressed, or overwhelmed by linda carroll “picture a pattern of upright dominoes that have been positioned just far enough away from one other to highlight the gap between them, but just close enough to hit each other if one of them tips over. hit a single … how anxiety became my guide, not my enemy by madeleine eames “you are not a mess. you are a feeling person in a messy world.” ~glennon doyle melton i have suffered with some type of anxiety for as long as i can remember. the stomach aches at age five. trips to … connecting to the sacred in the chaos of everyday life by seth j. gillihan and aria campbell-danesh “love is our true destiny. we do not find the meaning of life by ourselves alone—we find it with another.” ~thomas merton seth: when aria and i decided to devote a year to encouraging one another in our mindfulness practice, … radical gratitude: how to turn your pain into peace by deborah perdue my journey to living in gratitude began in 2010. and let me say that up until that time, until i was age forty-five, i was a complainer, griper, and a whiner, with absolutely no reason to complain! luckily, i was … how to reap the benefits of meditation without meditating by carl phillips “absorb what is useful, discard what is useless and add what is specifically your own.” ~bruce lee the benefits of meditation are far reaching and have been well known for centuries. however, the idea of formal meditation doesn’t sit well … how to make peace with your noisy mind—7 tips from an ex-monk by richard paterson “leave your front door and your back door open. let thoughts come and go. just don’t serve them tea.” ~shunryu suzuki there are few things more exasperating in life than having a noisy chatterbox in residence between your ears—a busy … how the past and the future can rob you of the present by amaya pryce “remember then: there is only one time that is important and it is now! the present moment is the only time when we have any power.” ~tolstoy stop for a second and tell me: what were you thinking about just … my “stress” was actually high-functioning anxiety by heather rider “anxiety is like a rocking chair. it gives you something to do, but it doesn’t get you very far.” ~jodi picoult many years ago, i worked in the technology sector in austin, texas, which is a big “tech town.” i … how yoga gave me the courage to stop people-pleasing by caitlin kelly “yoga is the journey of the self, through the self, to the self.” ~the bhagavad gita growing up, i couldn’t have been further from my ‘self.’ early childhood experiences taught me to focus all of my energy externally. to put … 5 powerful mindset shifts to stop worrying about what other people think by sandy woznicki “care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner.” ~lao tzu we carefully pick out what we wear to the gym to make sure we look good in the eyes of the other gym goers. we … 20 life-changing tools, 95% off—one week, starting today by lori deschene first things first, happy 2020! it’s a new year, filled with promise and possibility. if last year was tough for you, it’s now in the rearview mirror. if it was full of blessings and opportunities, you’re likely excited to see … 12 habits to adopt to make this your best year yet by lori deschene many of us head into the new year with big goals and ambitions. we think about everything that seems to be lacking in our lives and imagine ourselves far happier and more fulfilled on the other side of massive change.… page 1 of 5112345...102030...»last » translate free download: buddha desktop wallpaper recent forum topics abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on emotional learning journey what should i do? have i tried hard enough? not feeling motivated lately need some inspiration! maintaining self in relationships please guys, i really need your advice. break up and third party situation my girlfriend said she has a soulmate but it isn't me fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance get more fun & inspiring images & videos. latest posts 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top