minecraft server hosting start your minecraft server in a few clicks get started check_circle 30-day money-back guarantee save 55% $ 8 95 /mo recommended by wordpress-colorcreated with sketch. github-colorcreated with sketch. litespeedcreated with sketch. drupal-colorcreated with sketch. cloudflare-colorcreated with sketch. intercom-colorcreated with sketch. choose your minecraft plan 30-day money-back guarantee name memory recommended players price alex plan 2 gb person70 save 55% $ 19.95 /mo $ 8.95 /mo add to cart villager plan 3 gb person100 save 68% $ 39.95 /mo $ 12.95 /mo add to cart creeper plan 4 gb person∞ save 68% $ 49.95 /mo $ 15.95 /mo add to cart herobrine plan 6 gb person∞ save 70% $ 79.95 /mo $ 23.95 /mo add to cart enderman plan 8 gb person∞ save 77% $ 129.95 /mo $ 29.95 /mo add to cart plan memory recommended players alex 2 gb 70 save 55% $ 19.95 /mo $ 8.95 /mo add to cart plan memory recommended players villager 3 gb 100 save 68% $ 39.95 /mo $ 12.95 /mo add to cart plan memory recommended players creeper 4 gb unlimited save 68% $ 49.95 /mo $ 15.95 /mo add to cart plan memory recommended players herobrine 6 gb unlimited save 70% $ 79.95 /mo $ 23.95 /mo add to cart plan memory recommended players enderman 8 gb unlimited save 77% $ 129.95 /mo $ 29.95 /mo add to cart all minecraft hosting plans include: instant setup web/ftp file access ddos protection free mysql multicraft panel mobile app partnership program full-time development team pci-dds compliant automatic off-site backups dual-cpu hardware 99.9% uptime sla see how it works find out how minecraft hosting works in action. play_arrow still wondering how to start? check our tutorial. it will answer all your questions. learn more control with a few clicks easy-to-use vps hosting control managing your virtual private server has never been so easy. thanks to the vps control panel, now you can manage and control your virtual server simply with a few clicks. your private servers can be easily rebooted, powered on or off, absolutely new os or web scripts can be installed, root access password or trace server stats and vps hosting resources can be easily changed in real time. with no worries you can backup and restore vps container via cpanel too. highest quality data protection top-level enterprise data backups your data safety is our main priority! making virtual private server backup snapshots has never been so easy. now you can backup and restore all your folders, files and databases with a few simple clicks. cloud based vps can be restored in seconds any time and any day, by simply using hostinger vps hosting control panel and an advanced access to your backup storage. thanks to our cloud technology and double raid protection, your data will never be lost! minecraft server hosting: frequently asked questions (faq) get the answers to frequently asked questions about our minecraft server hosting this is my first minecraft server, can you help me if i get stuck? our customer success team is available 24/7 to help you with any minecraft hosting questions. you can also find many useful tutorials to help with any aspect of managing your game server. what is minecraft? minecraft is an adventure video game that’s attracted immense worldwide popularity since its release in 2011. created by markus persson, swedish video game developer, and mojang, it lets players mine the blocks and then craft them the way they like. in a 3d world, every player demonstrates great creativity as they explore, gather resources, craft the cubes and then combat. multiple game modes and multi-player versions are available. as of mid-2018, it boasts of more than 91 million active monthly players. it is widely regarded as one of the most popular video games ever, having sold over 177 million copies worldwide across platforms and devices. how to host a minecraft server? with hostinger’s vps control panel, you can host and manage your own virtual server. our dedicated vps hosting resources help you to reboot the server, install new web scripts, or make real-time change in passwords quickly and conveniently. how to set up a minecraft server? setting up the minecraft server is a simple one-step process. you will choose your preferred minecraft hosting plan and complete the purchase transaction. your minecraft server set up is done almost instantly. how long is the setup of your minecraft hosting servers? how does instant setup sound? forget minutes and hours of wait time! with hostinger, your minecraft vps server is set up in seconds, the moment your purchase transaction is successful. how much does minecraft server hosting cost? hostinger gives you multiple plans for minecraft server hosting. if you are new to minecraft and need less than 70 players, you can get started with the basic alex plan. it gives you a capacity of 2gb at $8.95 per month that’s a massive 55% off! wish to play with unlimited players at a bigger bandwidth? you get to choose from the creeper, herobrine or the enderman plans. check out minecraft server hosting plans here. how can i purchase a minecraft hosting service? getting started with a minecraft hosting service is easy! just choose from one of our five minecraft hosting plans and complete your purchase transaction. once it’s done, you can start playing your favorite game in just minutes! do you have a refund policy for minecraft hosting? absolutely yes! we have a 30-day moneyback guarantee on all our minecraft hosting plans. anytime you are not completely satisfied with our plan or service we will happily make a full refund! can i change my plan or upgrade my server later? you can change your minecraft hosting plan in just a couple of clicks! go to the client dashboard and submit your order for change of plan. your server is instantly upgraded or downgraded in real-time, without any loss to settings or data. whether you own large-scale minecraft servers or are a first-time server creator, enjoy complete freedom and reliability. grow your minecraft to any range with convenient and flexible minecraft hosting plans from hostinger. how much does it cost to register a domain name for my minecraft hosting server? registering a personal domain name for your minecraft hosting server is easy. click here to grab your unique domain name starting at just $0.99! what is the location of your minecraft hosting servers? our minecraft hosting servers are located across 5 global locations us, uk, netherlands, singapore, and lithuania (setup in process). with hostinger, your minecraft hosting is 100% reliable with the lowest possible latency. what is the hardware of your minecraft hosting servers? hostinger’s minecraft hosting servers use advanced hardware including intel xeon grade processors and latest generation intel ssd hard drives. enjoy a reliable and consistent performance every time. what is my minecraft hosting server ip? your ip address is available in your vps control panel section in hpanel. can i use a modpack on my server? yes, you can! go ahead and install any world or modpack that you like! with our custom .jar options, you can install any jar files that you prefer. play the game your way. what kind of control panel am i provided for my server? your minecraft server runs on the advanced version of multicraft, that gives you absolute control and flexibility. personalize your virtual minecraft server by managing it from the browser, uploading custom files or installing server types of your preference. can i change the location of my minecraft hosting server? absolutely, yes! the location of your minecraft hosting server can be changed anytime you wish to. our friendly minecraft hosting experts will help you with the transfer, the moment you submit a ticket to them. do note that your ip address changes after the transfer. can i manage plugins and add new ones myself? sure, you can! hostinger gives you full root access for the server and files for your virtual server. using this access, you can modify the configuration as you like. wish to upload or maintain server files yourself? go ahead and manage it easily from any third-party ftp client site or your control panel. do i get dedicated ipv4 and ipv6 addresses for my server? yes, you do! hostinger gives your dedicated ipv6 and ipv4 addresses with every minecraft hosting plan without any additional charges. what kind of access do i get to the minecraft hosting server? enjoy complete root access to your virtual server with any minecraft hosting server plan you choose. it lets you customize the server configuration as per your needs and preferences. hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat close flash sale check 30-days money-back guarantee check 99.9% uptime check 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 77 % off close flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 09 seconds get my 77 off! up to 77 % off close flash sale check 1-click installer check php 7.4 support check optimized for wordpressview offer up to 77 % off flash sale: minecraft server hosting from $8.95 /month!get started ×