skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about categories map family tree log in register search go encyclopedia people mingo (sir william batten's servant) annotations (9) references (4) 9 annotations ✹ sjoerd spoelstra on 29 apr 2004 • link mingo is the black servant of sir william batten, samuels neighbor, who enters the diary on three occasions (so far). each entry offers a little tempting information to build on. we learn that mingo is a very trusted servant, on one occasion gets beaten by underpaid sailors while carrying his masters' cloak. he has enough of a sense of humour to share a joke with samuel on valentine's day 1661. he seems to be good with animals as well: the parrot in the april 10th entry recognises him immediately. black servants seem to be kept firstly as an exotic luxury. "at last we made mingo, sir w. batten's black, and jack, sir w. pen's, dance, and it was strange how the first did dance with a great deal of seeming skill.” the name mingo seems to have connotations of fun and games, domingo beeing the court jester of henry viii, referred to in plays and drinking songs. but looking at sir battens will (http://www.pro.gov.uk/pathways/blackhistory/work_…) the old sailor must have developed a genuine liking for his servant, providing him with a well paying job as lighthouse keeper in harwich. according to the huntingdon civic society (http://members.fortunecity.co.uk/hgcs/page2.htm) a thomas mingo is recorded as marrying at st mary’s church, “(the first black person to marry in this country) in 1685 as a part of huntingdon’s rich black history.” if it is not the same mingo, the connection to huntingdon (“seat” of montagu and thus of pepys) is a coincidence. ✹ mary on 3 may 2004 • link mingo's origins. for professor rucker's definition of 'mingo' as a name deriving from the wolof of senegambia, with other occurrences amongst the hausa and mandika, see the diary annotations for 14th february 1660/61. 'domingo' and its derivatives clearly have nothing to do with the case. ✹ sjoerd spoelstra on 9 may 2004 • link "having connotations of" is not the same as "is derived of" , i think ? see http://ise.uvic.ca/library/sltnoframes/society/ta… for the text of a drinking song "monsieur mingo", and you can hear it as well if your computer can handle real audio files. this is from henry iv, part two, and it was published in a collection of drinking songs in 1611; i suggest the name "mingo" survived the transition because it was a well known name with a certain connotation, while other black servants that are mentioned for instance are called "jack". ✹ cumgranissalis on 27 oct 2005 • link mingo appears to be a name of an iroquois tribe in pennsyvania in the 1600's [control f mingo] " the mingo ........ by 1740 there were almost a thousand mingo living in western pennsylvania and eastern ohio...." http://www.cems.uwe.ac.uk/~rstephen/livingeaston/… "...with two exceptions - the mingo occupation of the upper ohio valley and the caughnawaga migration to the upper st. lawrence - the iroquois did not, for the most part, physically occupy this vast area but remained in their upstate new york villages..." so he may have been north american indian no proof except that names usually have some odd connections ✹ jwb on 23 may 2007 • link mingo indians from allan eckert's "that dark and bloody river"- "the mingoes were not a tribe but rather a very loose confederation of indians from a variety of tribes-senecas, cayugas, delawares, wyandot and even a few shawnees-who disgruntled with the politics of their individual trbe or simply expatriates ...had banded together. chief logan(early 18th c.):'we are all warriers and we are all chiefs. among the tribes to the south, a chief is called a mingo, so we now call ourselves mingoes, as we are all chiefs"'. "...to the south" could connote that the name came from slaves or run-away slaves and thus of african origin. ✹ michael robinson on 8 feb 2008 • link mingo in batten's will -- reproduction & transcript "these extracts from his will reveal that batten wanted his 'servante mingoe a negroe' to become lighthouse keeper upon his death. the servant was also left a legacy of £20 per year for life - a substantial sum of money at the time." reproduction:- http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/pathways/black… text transcript:- http://www.nationalarchives.gov.uk/pathways/black… ✹ mary k on 24 oct 2017 • link for a fascinating account of the surprisingly long history of free men and women of african origin living and working in england, see the following recently published book: "black tudors" by miranda kaufmann. a oneworld book isbn 978-1-78607-184-2 ✹ mary k on 4 nov 2017 • link mingo's hart street antecedents. mingo was by no means the first black african to live in the parish of st. olave's hart street. john barker, a merchant and mp living in the parish from about 1582 onwards, had in his employ in the later years of the 16th century a number of african servants including mary fillis (a young girl described as a "morisco"), george (a blackamore) and leying mouea ("a blackamore of 20 years). alderman paul bayning, a hart street neighbour of the baker family, employed at least 5 africans over the same period including "three maids, blackamores" (one called julyanne) and two men - abell and anthony. dr. hector nunes, a refugee from the portuguese inquisition resident in the neighbourhood since 1549, had numerous black servants in his household including three women named elizabeth, grace and mary. altogether between 1588 and 1638 st. olave's hart street saw three baptisms and 12 burials of africans, whilst the neighbouring church of st. botolph's aldgate saw just one baptism (of the aforementioned mary fillis) but 17 burials of africans. for further information, see the book "black tudors" cited in the note that precedes this one. ✹ terry foreman on 18 sep 2018 • link also see "tudor, english and black – and not a slave in sight" a review of black tudors: the untold story, which debunks the idea that slavery was the beginning of africans’ presence in england, and exploitation and discrimination their only experience. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2017/oct/29/t... log in to post an annotation. if you don't have an account, then register here. references chart showing the number of references in each month of the diary’s entries. 1661 feb 14 mar 27 apr 10 1667 mar 21 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site