skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search minimal home » minimal 34 consulting wordpress themes to help your consulting business grow online 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 35 comments a huge list of the most modern and professional consulting wordpress themes to supercharge your business today. how to make a great consulting website with wordpress? first, you need a good hosting service and a cms. for thousands of companies… read more→ awesome responsive wordpress themes for architects, landscape architects and architectural firms 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars theme collections 19 comments a comprehensive collection of the best architecture wordpress themes for architect corporate, portfolio and personal websites and blogs. architecture has always been a niche service due to its specification and high cost. in this business, you can get only a… read more→ stunning collection of the best minimalist wordpress themes for business, portfolio and blogs 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars theme collections 29 comments the complete collection of the best wordpress minimalist themes for the blog, portfolio, corporate, magazine and other awesome minimal style websites. read more→ 60+ best personal & business portfolio wordpress themes to showcase your work – 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars portfolio, theme collections 74 comments this is an outstanding collection of the best wordpress portfolio themes for designers, photographers, artists, creative professionals, agencies creative business owners, and anyone else looking to showcase their work in high quality. all of the wordpress themes we have mentioned… read more→ 21 awesome wordpress nightclub themes for clubs, bars, pubs & more 2020 march 22, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 0 comments looking for a nightclub wordpress theme to shine a light on your nightclub? these amazing wordpress themes will get you covered on a budget. creating your own nightclub website unlike many other platforms, wordpress offers consistent quality without draining your… read more→ 102 free simple website templates based on html & css 2020 march 21, 2020 rokr website templates 9 comments whoever is looking for a quick start of his online project, these free simple html templates are the perfect tool to start with. no need to look further if the minimalist look is what you are after. sometimes, keeping it… read more→ 30 marvelous wordpress photography blog themes for hobbyists and professional photographers 2020 march 11, 2020 aigars theme collections 3 comments in the past, if you wanted your picture taken, you would have to pose for a portrait. nowadays, even our mobile phones have high-resolution cameras. although we have gotten used to the idea, it is truly amazing and profound that… read more→ 27 awesome wordpress gallery themes for photography and portfolio websites 2020 february 28, 2020 aigars theme collections 2 comments invented as a channel for communication between different computers, the internet has certainly transcended its initial purpose. nowadays, it basically connects an entire planet, facilitating the exchange of information. the free and unregulated nature of this medium can provide a… read more→ 24 best coming soon html5 website templates for maintenance and under construction pages 2020 february 24, 2020 aigars website templates 15 comments man is a social animal, psychology tells us—and both history and reality mirror this notion at every turn. we live and breathe among our brethren, and not just because people like being around people, but because everyone is exponentially more… read more→ 25 green eco-friendly wordpress themes for organic & eco-friendly websites 2020 february 21, 2020 aigars silkalns theme collections 3 comments in order to appreciate something of great importance, you must first imagine your life without that specific thing, or factor. as humans, we get to enjoy the benefits of our own ingenuity and perseverance, but we are far from perfect.… read more→ top 30 wordpress themes for freelancers, programmers, graphics designers and more 2020 february 21, 2020 aigars theme collections 2 comments the popularity of the internet opened doors for people who wanted to work and make a living as freelancers. meanwhile, a lot of people are going freelance because of the convenience and accessibility of working from home. as a result,… read more→ 37 photography website templates for professional and hobby photographers 2020 february 18, 2020 aigars website templates 2 comments it is amazing that the ability to freeze and capture moments in time, has become a mundane fact. most people agree that photography is an art form. only a select few possess the eye and instinct of a photographer. a… read more→ 53 best free blogger templates to create a beautiful blog or magazine website 2020 february 18, 2020 alex ivanovs website templates 190 comments blogger is possibly the oldest blogging platform still actively running on the web, google blogger has been home to millions of bloggers for over 16 years now, and still maintains a quite stable market share in the content management platform… read more→ 34 minimal parallax website templates with smooth scrolling [html & wordpress] 2020 february 18, 2020 aigars website templates 1 comment the internet is a vertiginous marketplace of ideas, products, services, and culture, where nonstop information makes its way around the world billions of times every day. empires rise and fall in months, at scales that took mankind thousands of years… read more→ 32 best one page website templates with smooth parallax scrolling [html & wordpress] 2020 february 11, 2020 aigars website templates 10 comments contrary to popular belief, quality web design is not a race to create the flashiest online pages. the human eye appreciates subtlety much more than it likes visual noise. while some website owners insist on having complex sites, it is… read more→ 29 best simple bootstrap templates which you don’t wanna miss february 7, 2020 girish karthik website templates 0 comments simplicity is the ultimate complexity. when you make things simple you have to do lots of hard work as well as smart work. luckily in order to make your website simple, you needn’t have to struggle. we have collected a… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×