skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources miranda marquit the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? march 27, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment in the age of social distancing and stay at home orders, work from home is becoming the normal (at least for white collar workers). but will this have a long-term impact on the future of work? i'd … continue reading about the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference march 22, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment during times of stress and upheaval, it's easy to feel like it's too big and you can't do anything. here's how to do good no matter where you are. as humans, we often feel as though we're masters … continue reading about what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies march 14, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment i've had an influx of questions from readers in the last two weeks. luckily a lot of them can be divided into categories and i can just answer them at once. here's a money q&a about covid-19, … continue reading about money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition march 1, 2020 by miranda marquit 3 comments here's the thing. some stuff that happens is ok for me. like a stock market drop. i don't actively wish for it to go down like this. but i'm not sad when it does. and that makes me feel bad. in … continue reading about feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank february 21, 2020 by miranda marquit 2 comments we all make money mistakes. even "nationally recognized financial experts." gather round, children, and let me tell you the story of my botched debt consolidation. it's no secret that, when my ex … continue reading about how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start february 15, 2020 by miranda marquit 2 comments freelance jobs abound. if you're hoping to make money online, here are some ideas of where you can start. "how do you find gigs?" this is pretty much the first question anyone asks me when they … continue reading about looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 190 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com