home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty latest posts from *miss thrifty* competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding about *miss thrifty* miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in yorkshire, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. thrifty home the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy bills once you get past the beginner-level energy-saving stuff, a whole new world of thrifty nerdery opens up. here are some secrets to copping a load of money off your utilities bills. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 september 5, 2018 thrifty homebody rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it. last month, j. money announced the site was looking for 20 bloggers to take $100 each and turn it into some some joy and happiness. so i emailed to ask if the rockstar finance community fund could cross the pond. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 december 30, 2017 thrifty food how to make a reverse advent calendar answers to all your questions about reverse advent calendars: what are they and how much should you spend? here is my reverse advent calendar for this year, with a show-and-tell of everything i have packed. i spent £17 – but did you know you can make a reverse advent calendar for as little as £5? in terms of the difference it will make, that’s an amazing roi. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 november 3, 2017 personal finance what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas. old pound coins might not be legal tender anymore, but you can still spend them. don’t believe me? read on to discover the banks, charities, supermarkets and coin dealers who will take your old round pounds. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 october 22, 2017 thrifty home decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budget this guest bedroom was so unwelcoming. take a look at my mid-century makeover: from bargain g-plan right down to the wallpaper and bedspread. all on a budget! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 october 21, 2017 personal finance zero to house-buying hero: how to save a mortgage deposit this time 10 years ago, we were buying a house: our first home, in north yorkshire. the floors were bare boards, the walls were covered in yellow vinyl wallpaper, and the gas and electricity were on pre-pay meters (on a frozen … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty38 february 13, 2017 deals & bargains i’ll tell you how to clean up at the january sales i love to fling myself into a sale and emerge with an amazing bargain. bbc watchdog recently filmed me sharing some of my favourite & sneakiest sales shopping tips, and i have set them all out here. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty28 january 23, 2017 thrifty food is the lidl hot air fryer worth £59.99? there are 8 things to like about lidl’s cut-price hot air fryer, and i list them all here. you can cook meat from frozen, in minutes. it is pretty hard to burn anything. and the price point (swoon)! this model was sent to me for review, and i have been putting it through its paces. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 december 18, 2016 personal finance retirement planning: your new year’s resolution for 2017? when it comes to saving for your retirement, are you a savings snail, a money mole or a wise owl? skipton building society asked me to team up with them to help raise awareness of the dire state of the nation’s retirement savings – and i have a challenge for you! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 december 8, 2016 thrifty christmas thrifty christmas: how to make brown parcel paper pop this is how i wrap my presents every year, for a number of reasons. brown parcel wrap looks so pretty. it’s also sturdy, neat – and very cheap. here is the quick & easy lowdown on how brown paper roll can make your christmas gifts look like they belong on pinterest. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 december 7, 2016 personal finance pension planning: like ripping off a plaster the size of your entire body? (ad feature) i dare you: are you brave enough to do what i did and see a snapshot of what your retirement will look like? are you going to be old and bold, or old and cold? get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 october 28, 2016 personal finance how late is too late to plan for retirement? (ad feature) job-hopping in my 20s, self-employed in my 30s… is it too late to salvage a decent pension plan? this is my personal finance weakspot so, when aviva got in touch to ask me to test and write about their new shape my future tool, it seemed like the perfect time to face my bowler-hatted demons. (glurk.) get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 october 21, 2016 personal finance the student money-saving tips i wish i’d known if you follow me on facebook, you will know that i recently wrote a post for matalan’s blog, with some of my top money-saving tips for students. my number one piece of advice? don’t bother keeping up with the student joneses. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 september 23, 2016 thrifty food thrifty recipe of the week: £1.44 chocolate orange cake yes, you read that right: this delicious chocolate orange cake costs just £1.44 to make. it is one of my thrifty adaptations of a nigella recipe. the secret? a 27p jar of value marmalade. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty16 july 1, 2016 thrifty wedding engagement rings: the 10 best ways to save money diamond engagement rings are popular, but expensive. here are some of the best ways to save money on this big purchase, from buying vintage to buying “light.” get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 june 21, 2016 thrifty food thrifty recipe of the week: broad bean pesto a jar of broad bean pesto costs less than £1 to make and there are so many things you can do with it in all its garlicky, lemony loveliness: stir into pasta as a sauce, or spread it on toast. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 june 5, 2016 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google