home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty the latest miss thrifty posts competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty food ice cube trays: how do you use yours? ice cube trays: who knew they were useful for so much more than ice cubes? here in the thrifty house, they help to reduce food waste – thus saving money on our monthly grocery bill. here is what i am freezing – and why. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 may 22, 2016 personal finance the financial admin diet: little & often recent research from standard life found that just 26% of us regularly put time aside to review our finances. these are the habits i have developed to keep everything in check. it’s like a financial admin diet – except that you are putting pounds on, instead of losing them. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 may 17, 2016 thrifty beauty lacura makeup: grab it while it’s on special lacura makeup is currently an aldi specialbuy. i came away with a decent haul when i visited my local store at the weekend, so here are my reviews & recommendations. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 april 20, 2016 thrifty beauty how to get cheap contact lenses i’ve been playing around with vision compare, a free comparison tool for contact lens wearers. it’s simple to use: type in your contact lens make and model. up pops a list of all the online retailers selling boxes of the lenses, with the prices. as ever, substantial savings can be made on high street optician prices. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 april 10, 2016 deals & bargains, thrifty baby 5 must-dos when you buy in bulk for those who plan ahead, there are significant bulk-buy savings to be made in british stores and supermarkets. as part of its wonder week promotion, pampers asked me for my five top tips. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 march 30, 2016 personal finance your financial personality: ideas for money-saving superheroes of the 10 financial personality types, three are particularly common amongst miss thrifty readers: the turbo saver, the enlightened one and the dark striver. how can these financial personality types become smarter savers? get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 march 25, 2016 thrifty homebody emerges, blinking, into the sunlight… i’m back. it feels like waking up, and i am so happy to be here. a lot has changed. for example, i no longer spend £600 a month on a six-hour round trip to work (ugh). i have moved to a different part of the country, to a town south of manchester. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 march 21, 2016 personal finance discover your financial personality: take the test insurance company aviva has created 10 financial personality types, from a research sample of more than 5,000 uk adults. which one are you? take this free test & find out. (apparently i’m a ‘turbo saver’…) get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 march 17, 2016 thrifty home make a gift bag from an old t-shirt even if you are a reluctant seamster or seamstress, you can turn a t-shirt sleeve into a small gift bag in less than 10 minutes. if you are wrapping homemade gifts such as jams, preserves or other sweet treats in jars, a sleeve-sized gift bag is a perfect fit. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 december 22, 2015 thrifty food tired pineapple? turn it into pineapple chutney! i liberated a pineapple from the supermarket discount aisle. the leaves on the top began to turn brown. food waste? i think not. pineapple action stations. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 september 30, 2014 personal finance for money bloggers, good news comes in fivers right now, uk money bloggers are enjoying success and recognition. from awards to new website launches, there is plenty going on in our corner of the web. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 september 24, 2014 thrifty food peach iced tea in five minutes this quick and easy peach iced tea recipe comes in at less than £1 a pitcher: what’s not to like? i adore it: chilled until it is super-cold, this recipe is as thirst-quenching as it is delicious. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 september 2, 2014 thrifty fashion upcycle a frumpy frock into a 1940s tea dress remember these floaty cotton dresses? wouldn’t it be great if you could wave a magic wand and turn them into 1940s tea dresses? when you think about it, a needle is like a really small, shiny wand… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 august 7, 2014 personal finance all change, all change… a new job, a rebirth as a commuter – and a monthly season ticket, the price of which is a thorn in my tightwad soul. plus some bloggy developments. yep, it’s all change around here… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 july 27, 2014 thrifty food slow cooker on holiday: four camping recipes on our recent glamping holiday, my slow cooker came with us. it sounds weird; it turned out to be a great idea. here are the cheap, simple & filling dishes i cooked (plus a boozy recipe). get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 july 18, 2014 deals & bargains friday bargains: handbags, lipstick, a free pc world giftcard & more here is a round-up of the bestest bargains out there. from a flash sale at zatchels & cut-price revlon make-up, to a free gift card for pc world, is there something here for you? get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 june 27, 2014 ← older posts newer posts → get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google