petite anglaise august 6, 2006 home filed under: city of light, missing blighty — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:36 pm london is one long ride on an interminable escalator, mopping my brow and frowning at the chunky a-z, wondering how it is possible for many of my destinations to be so very far removed from metro tube stations. it is struggling to remember to “keep left” in corridors and on staircases which are neatly divided into two halves. keeping my expensive travelcard handy for when i leave every station to avoid awkward, embarrassing fumbling; a wave of homesickness for my navigo card and its comforting “driinng!” welling up as the alien “piinng!” of oyster cards echoes in my ears. in paris, leaning over the edge of a platform to squint along the tunnel, i can often spy the lights of the next station, and sometimes make out the next one after that. a station is never more than a short stroll away. i drag my overnight bag along residential streets, plastic wheels rumbling noisily over uneven paving slabs, glancing at my watch periodically to see if i am late enough to warrant making a breathless, apologetic phone call. i am pathetically grateful to whoever had the foresight to paint helpful hints on the tarmac at every pedestrian crossing, prompting me to “look right!” or “look left!”, rather than trusting my (apparently continental) instincts and stepping out into the path of a rapidly approaching black cab. it is in my native land that i am truly a fish out of water: panting, helplessly disorientated, yearning for the familiarity of my french home. * * * * * * * * * * * later, back in the village where i grew up, i creep into my daughter’s bedroom, craving the familiar scent of her warm curls, her damp scalp. she is unexpectedly awake, sitting up in bed with a welcoming smile. i cover her cheeks with kisses. “mummy,” she asks, “are you going to sleep in your bed today?” “yes my love,” i reply, “so you can come and fetch me when you wake up in the morning.” she pauses for a moment; i can almost see her thinking. “mummy? have you got a sleeping bag like mine?” “no. mummies don’t usually wear sleeping bags.” “when i will be a mummy and you will be a little girl, i can lend you this one,” she says generously, gesturing down at her pink gingham pod. i find this notion of role reversal strangely comforting. later, against my better judgement, i slip into the single bed, beside her oblivious sleeping form and let the regularity of her breathing slow my rapidly thumping heart. comments (142) june 16, 2006 eurostarlet filed under: missing blighty — petiteanglaiseparis @ 9:00 am on the occasion of my trip to london this weekend – a trip which makes me a very excited girl indeed as i will get to see lots of my favourite people and eat gourmet fish and chips and go to top shop – i am going to go cold turkey and not lay fingers to keyboard for three whole days. in my absence, i leave you in the capable hands of my mum, who has kindly offered to moderate comments in my absence. soyez sage! comments (42) january 19, 2006 apprehensive filed under: good time girl, mills & boon, missing blighty — petiteanglaiseparis @ 4:51 pm this weekend, i will be meeting the “friends” referred to below. the very idea of this meeting has me in a turmoil. extract from email from lover, may 2005 “when i went back to england last month, i was moaning to my friends about mad french bird. as they are all nearing or indeed at 40 and in stable conventional relationships, none of them could see what on earth my problem was with dating a mixed-up 22-year old. eventually, i said “look, the person that i really like, the person that i feel completely compelled to, is someone i’ve never seen, who lives in paris and has a partner and a child. i don’t know her name or what she looks like, but (…) i can’t get her out of my head.” it is less than a year later, and by some bizarre twist of interweb fate we have been together for several months now. no twenty-two year old is any match for a petite anglaise with her glad rags on. so, why the inner turmoil? so far, those of lover’s friends i have met in france have all been lovely people, which bodes well. i do not doubt we will be in very good company. what’s more, i am really looking forward to getting to know lover better, as tongues do tend to be loosened by alcohol, and, with luck, some interesting stories about his schooldays in sheffield will emerge over the course of the evening. and it’s always revealing to see a person in a new context. we all behave differently depending on who we are with, do we not? among our oldest friends, we get back to the basics of who we really are. the very englishness of the weekend is also appealing, as curry and/or fish and chips and/or a full english breakfast are bound to be on the menu. an opportunity to worship at the altar of the holy grease. not to be sniffed at. but, despite all these positives, i appear to be rather nervous. this i know because when packing for a weekend away, i do not generally make a habit of trying on the entire contents of my wardrobe in front of a full-length mirror. it’s one thing being anxious about making a good impression (and striving to minimise the impression made by my disproportionately large rear, lest it steal all the limelight), but this level of panic (a code red alert) seems a little excessive, even to me. i’ll admit to being slightly apprehensive that i won’t be able to take the pace (being woefully out of practice at drinking in pubs, all evening long, standing up) and a little uneasy at the prospect that, a few drinks into the evening, i might be an embarrassment, or a little too lairy. but there are bigger issues here. will i be a disappointment in some way? how do i compare with the ex-wife that they all knew so well, or the terrifyingly sexy girlfriend who helped him pick up the pieces, post-divorce? one of the most attractive things about an older man is that he knows who he is, and is comfortable in his own skin. the flipside of that coin is that he is bound to have some pretty weighty baggage; excess baggage, which in an airport would cost you dearly. and so i must deal with the ghosts of wives and girlfriends past. last, but not least, there is the small matter of the situation i was in when we met, as evidenced by the phrase: “who lives in paris and has a partner and a child”. our relationship was born out of the ruins of another. there was all kinds of fallout involved. i have taken my child away from her father, and plan to uproot us both next summer, in order to be with him. when i meet a friend of his for the first time, i sometimes wonder: are his friends simply happy for him, or do they feel slightly uncomfortable with how it all came about? will they be judging me (as some of my commenters do)? as usual, my mind is working overtime, creating problems, amplifying things out of all proportion. if it wasn’t for the fact that i want to be cremated when that time comes, i think the phrase “petite anglaise – she thought too much” would have made a fitting epitaph. comments (59) november 7, 2005 firestarter filed under: missing blighty, tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:54 pm “we’re going to see lights flying in the sky. very noisy lights, that go whizz! and weee! and bang!” “bang!” repeats tadpole, waving her arms enthusiastically and managing to elbow me in the chin in the process. i realise that it is not easy to describe fireworks to a two year old without performing a variety of sound effects, and regret the fact that i didn’t choose to do so in the privacy of my own home. painfully aware of the taxi driver eying me incredulously in the rear view mirror, i decide an explanation might be in order, for his benefit. “mummy calls the light fireworks, in english. and in french they are called feu d’artifice,” i say, in my best educator’s voice. “feu n’artifice! feu n’artifice!” shrieks the resident parrott. i thank my lucky stars that this year tadpole is too young for an explanation of why the effigy of a man called mr fawkes is being burned, somewhat barbarically, on a bonfire. we alight at the british embassy and make our way to the garden, where the fun and festivities are to take place; i put down my mulled wine and busy myself sending a text message to the very kind reader/embassy employee who invited tadpole and i to the annual bonfire party, to announce our arrival. small children race across the lawn in the semi-darkness, squealing with excitement at being allowed to stay up after bedtime. tadpole, almost invisible in her black coat, proves almost impossible to keep track of. my insistent pleas to “stay near mummy” fall on deaf ears, and every few minutes i am forced to interrupt my conversation and set off in search of my errant daughter. to think that i used to take for granted the fact that i could look someone in the eye while having a conversation and actually finish my sentences. those days are, sadly, long gone. only bribery in the form of unhealthy foodstuffs provides tadpole with an incentive to spend a little time with mummy, and i am pathetically grateful to the kind ladies on the barbecue stall for their array of toddler taming quavers, hot dogs and curly wurlies. when the firework display begins, tadpole darts over to the mesh fence which has been used to section off the onlookers from the bonfire, and throws her head back, roaring with delighted, slightly deranged sounding laughter. the child is most definitely not afraid. i drop to her level and we make the obligatory “ooh” and “aah” sounds in unison. for the remainder of the weekend, whenever my daughter talks about the fireworks (approximately once every hour), there is a frightening glint in her eyes, which i have only seen once before (when my mother in law evoked her weekly trips to the town casino). i try to convince myself that by attending the display, i have not unwittingly sown the seeds of pyromania. comments (28) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel