the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news miss e3? check out our recreation with a bunch of sweating, overheated gamers we locked in our janitorial closet you may also like ogn deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies... wednesday 4:28pm ogn ogn investigates: we exposed an orphan to nothing but violent games for the first 12 years of his life and while it didn’t make hi... wednesday 10:41am ogn ‘animal crossing: new horizons’ developers confirm no one can hurt you here, no one can make you scared 3/20/20 9:03am more from g/o media read on woman working from home instinctively tries to steal tampons from own bathroom read on trump suggests ceding new york to coronavirus as possible appeasement strategy read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe today 12:44pm • see more:onion gamers network onion gamers networke3video gamesnewsvol 56 issue 12 hardcore gaming fans were massively disappointed when this year’s electronic entertainment expo got canceled due to the spread of covid-19. but luckily, ogn is here to give you a taste of what you’re missing. that’s right, readers! if you’re pining away for the e3 experience, then feast your eyes on this pixel-perfect recreation we made by locking a bunch of sweating, overheated gamers in our janitorial closet. sure, the largest gaming trade show of the year might be canceled, but onion gamers network’s got your back with an authentic replica of e3 featuring 15 large, overexerted gaming enthusiasts trapped in an office janitor’s closet! advertisement gamers, we know you had been looking forward to checking out e3 for months, so you deserve the closest approximation we could give you. that’s why we’ve made absolutely sure to make our recreation as authentic as possible: anamanaguchi is blaring on the portable speakers to the point these gamers can’t hear themselves think, it’s completely impossible to find a bathroom—since there isn’t one inside the closet—and it’s possible to actually feel the moisture of fresh stains on the backs and armpits of people that bump into you. and don’t forget the smell! for an added layer of authenticity, one of the gamers is wearing an actual deadpool costume that we forced him to put on. make sure to check out all the hard work he put in before he passes out from heatstroke! this place is nearly 87 degrees fahrenheit and rising! we know nothing will ever make up for losing the experience of attending e3 2020 and getting a taste of the biggest and brightest that the industry has to offer. but this here is the next best thing—so come on in, stock up on swag such as dishrags and cleaning solution, fight your fellow fans to play the single half-charged game gear we left in there, and be sure to catch the keynote speech from one of the gamers begging to be let out! now, this is how real gamers make the best of a tough situation. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill share tweet