columnists tipsheet cartoons podcasts sections newsletters podcasts townhall tv election capitol voices entertainment radio news live blog topics sites hot air pj media bearing arms twitchy redstate townhall finance conservative radio join vip login my account account settings newsletter subscriptions log out mona charen biography mona charen is a syndicated columnist and political analyst living in the washington, d.c., area. mona charen received her undergraduate degree at barnard college, columbia university, with honors. mona charen also holds a degree in law from george washington university. mona charen began her career at national review magazine, where mona charen served as editorial assistant. on her first tax return at the age of 22, mona charen listed her occupation as "pundit," explaining later, "you have to think big." in 1984, mona charen joined the white house staff, serving first as nancy reagan's speechwriter and later as associate director of the office of public liaison. in the latter post, mona charen lectured widely on the administration's central america policy. later in mona charen's white house career, mona charen worked in the public affairs office helping to craft the president's overall communications strategy. in 1986, mona charen left the white house to join the presidential quest of then-congressman jack kemp as a speechwriter. mona charen launched her syndicated column in 1987, and it has become one of the fastest-growing columns in the industry. it is featured in more than 200 papers, including the boston globe, baltimore sun, st. louis post-dispatch, atlanta journal-constitution, and the washington times. mona charen spent six years as a regular commentator on cnn's "capital gang" and "capital gang sunday," and has served as a judge of the pulitzer prizes. mona charen is the author of two best sellers: "useful idiots: how liberals got it wrong in the cold war and still blame america first" (2003), and "do-gooders: how liberals harm those they claim to help -- and the rest of us" (2005). mona charen is a frequent guest on television and radio public affairs programs and is married with three children. articles preserve our election march 20, 2020 democrats' only hope february 21, 2020 stepping around human misery january 31, 2020 a time to build january 23, 2020 will democrats choose safety or risk? january 17, 2020 gertrude himmelfarb, rip january 04, 2020 lovable ol' bernie? december 27, 2019 red death, blue health? december 05, 2019 is caitlin flanagan right about the abortion debate? november 20, 2019 what is the american idea? november 15, 2019 the great missing topic november 08, 2019 elizabeth warren is not honest october 18, 2019 why reparations talk is harmful september 20, 2019 what hong kong means august 16, 2019 so, you want canadian health care? august 02, 2019 load more authors kurt schlichter derek hunter dennis prager walter e. williams victor davis hanson michelle malkin ann coulter scott morefield ben shapiro chris stigall paul curry kevin mccullough more... commentary archives browse by author browse by date cartoons | chip bok view cartoon watchdog.org most popular the bizarre, partisan attacks on dr. deborah birx should massie be expelled for his stunt over wuhan coronavirus relief bill? former democratic senator: trump might have covered up existence of wuhan coronavirus columnists political cartoons tipsheet townhall tv podcasts radio news video entertainment vip capitol voices election results tags finance townhall radio about townhall advertise gift guides privacy policy terms of use california - do not sell my personal information radio stations sitemap jobs contact us newsletters iphone/android apps townhall.com is the leading source for conservative news and political commentary and analysis. copyright © townhall.com/salem media. all rights reserved. terms under which this service is provided to you