u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost money. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition money zone 1 the coronavirus stimulus plan is here, but will you get a cut? zone 2 what to do if your 401(k) took a big hit thanks to the coronavirus what you need to know about filing for unemployment insurance when it’s actually a good idea to hide money from your partner the irs just extended the tax filing deadline to july 15 5 sneaky census scams to watch out for in 2020 how to support local businesses and workers during coronavirus till debt do us part so you broke up. now who gets the debt? marrying someone with debt? here’s how to protect yourself what to do if you find out the person you’re dating is deep in debt zone 3 7 steps to take now if you're worried you might lose your job what steps to take and bills to prioritize as unemployment spreads with the coronavirus. coronavirus pandemic alters cancellation policies for u.s. airlines here's what delta, southwest and other carriers are offering customers canceling or changing their travel because of covid-19 concerns. it was hard living paycheck to paycheck before coronavirus. now it’s impossible. "how will so many of us continue to pay bills, juggle child care and work and live on such limited — and now vanishing — funds?" america's governors reject trump's coronavirus timeline maryland gov. larry hogan, a republican, accused the white house of running on a schedule made of some “imaginary clock.” trump's priorities inspire new hashtag: #notdying4wallstreet one twitter user correctly noted that "not one single human being deserves to die for somebody else's stock portfolio." what are 'essential services' during the coronavirus crisis? here's a list of the jobs and businesses that typically remain open during shutdowns. the deadline to pay taxes by april 15 just got extended individuals and businesses will be allowed to delay paying tax bills by 90 days. danielle brooks of 'orange is the new black' shares her honest approach to money the actor, who played tasha "taystee" jefferson on "orange is the new black," wants to make talking about money less taboo. this is what happens when stocks enter a bear market experts say on average, bear markets have lasted 14 months in the period since world war ii, while market corrections have lasted an average of five months. desperate cruise lines are downplaying the risk of coronavirus would you risk your health ― and potentially, your life ― for $100 in freebies? thanks to the coronavirus, it's a great time to refinance your debt the only catch? there's much more demand than lenders can reasonably handle. the psychology behind panic-buying – and how to avoid it people are stockpiling – or "panic-buying" – toilet paper, pasta, canned goods, hand sanitizer and soap. why, and what impact is it having? i get a basic income that's changed my life. everyone should want and get one. "no proposed plan for universal basic income has been perfect, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t try." will stocks keep tanking as coronavirus spreads? here's what experts say. experts share what you can do to protect yourself against the financial consequences of the covid-19 outbreak. inside the private online communities that help you 'buy nothing' these facebook groups prohibit exchanging money and bartering, but they reduce waste and build communities. canceling a trip due to coronavirus? here’s what travelers need to know. travel insurance experts offer advice amid fears over the outbreaks of covid-19. why your uber receipt looks totally different depending on your state from california to new york, local laws add to the cost of your uber ride. 4 fashion influencers reveal how much they're paid for sponcon four fashion influencers reveal what they were paid for recent social media campaigns they worked on. why you might need a 'sinking fund' this special type of savings could help you plan for irregular expenses throughout the year. there's a hidden cost to your big tax refund a new study highlights how much money you actually lose by waiting to receive a refund. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up everything you should have learned in school but didn’t subscribe to huffpost’s money and living email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost money. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.