get the hottest deals in your instagram feed each day! follow us on instagram home about submissions all submissions submit a guest post submit a deal submit a diy project submit ask the readers question submit your “we paid cash!” story advertise faqs contact contact us submit a deal my favorite posts view favorite posts archives popular series skip the deals facebook pinterest twitter instagram youtube email rss search main menu the latest deals all the latest deals all deals hot deals daily deal sites restaurant deals store deals all store deals cvs deals » cvs 101 rite aid deals » rite aid 101 target deals » target coupon policy walgreens deals » walgreens 101 walgreens coupon policy walmart deals » my shopping trips find coupons all coupons coupon terms and abbreviations print coupons » coupons.com red plum coupons grocery coupon network savings.com smart source smart source canada discounted newspapers giveaways & freebies money saving mom® freebie library all giveaways & freebies all giveaways all freebies educational deals & freebies free ebooks birthday freebies 15 ways to earn more swagbucks kids eat free restaurant deals from my kitchen all kitchen posts recipe index freezer cooking 101 & printables my freezer cooking sessions menu plans managing your money all managing your money posts income-earning ideas 52 ways to save $100 per year we paid cash home & family all home & family posts 15 favorite children’s read-alouds 15 recommended pre-k & kindergarten resources homeschooling busy bag ideas blogging & business all blogging & business posts how to make money blogging my 7 favorite business books my top 5 time management tips income-earning ideas moneysavingmom.com freebie library! join my email list and get free access to the msm freebie library, including my top printables & ebooks. first name * email * submit classic view grid view 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | crystal paine listening to audiobooks with kids 101 view post → add to my favorites are you interested in listening to audiobooks with your kids as a family? this is a must-read post on all things audiobooks for kids! psst! be sure to check out how i listen to audiobooks for free. and don’t forget that you can get a free audible trial with a bonus audiobook right now, plus audible is offering free audible books for kids! guest post from kelsey of orchard reads: i don’t think many of us would have expected just a few weeks ago that our kids would become homeschoolers indefinitely, but here we are! like many parents, you are probably scrambling trying to keep up with school work and entertain your kids and maintain some type of order and balance in this new season. you are probably also overwhelmed with offers for free educational programs, and it’s tricky to know what’s really going to be beneficial to your kids. if i had one recommendation of a learning activity to add into your daily routine, it would be listening to audiobooks together. our family has found that listening to audiobooks has bonded us, educated us, and redeemed many hours my kids might have spent being “bored.” sources for audiobooks there are tons of places to find great audiobooks for kids, but here are my three favorites: your local library each library system is different, but our library has an account with an app called libby. if you download the app on your phone and put in your library card information, you have thousands of audio books at your fingertips that you can listen to wherever you are. one important note: these books sometimes have significant waiting lists. most books i put on hold have between a 2-10 week wait, but sometimes you can get lucky and find them available immediately. once the libraries open up again, they also have a great selection of hard copy cd audio books. if you still have access to a cd player (we listen to these in our van), there are thousands of options to choose from! audible when you sign up for an account with audible, you’ll automatically get one month free that gives you access to one audiobook and two audible originals. it does cost $14.95 after the first month, but there’s no requirement to continue. audible has tons of incredible audio books for kids and teens, and if you can swing the monthly fee, it’s definitely the most thorough and readily available collection of audio books you can find anywhere. hot deal: right now they’re offering a bonus audiobook when you sign up for a free audible trial — meaning you’ll get two free audiobooks plus two audible originals!! audible also just announced that they’re offering free audible books for kids while schools are closed! while it doesn’t have as many titles available, there are still lots of great books to listen to for free, no strings attached! librivox this is an interesting site that offers thousands of free audio books that are read by volunteers from all over the world. they may not have a specific title you are looking for, but it’s worth perusing the catalog to find out. incorporating audiobooks into your daily routine listening to audiobooks in the car is one of our favorite things to do, but now that we’re all mostly homebound, we have to transition to listening at home. here are some of my best tips for incorporating audiobooks into your daily routine with kids: let your kids keep their hands busy whether you let them play with blocks, legos, a train set, a drawing pad, play-doh, puzzles, or another toy, keeping little hands and bodies busy while listening to an audiobook always works best for our family. there is often squirming, arguing, and interrupting — but it’s still worth it! turn on audiobooks when your kids ask for tv there is no judgment on my part for letting your kids watch tv (ours are watching a movie as i write!), but we all know that sometimes we really do need to limit the screen time. listening to audiobooks is actually incredibly similar to watching tv, but it requires kids to use their own mind and imagination rather than having the images displayed before their eyes. put on audiobooks for afternoon rest time if you have kids who are too old for naps but still need a little bit of down time in the afternoon, audiobooks are the perfect way to give them some quiet time while also keeping them occupied. there are tons of audiobooks that are 30-60 minutes long, and i have found that these are perfect for rest times. work through a series together as a family while it’s fun to listen to stand-alone audiobooks, it’s also fun to find a series that everyone enjoys and work through it together slowly. not only does it give you lots of hours of listening, but it also creates sweet family memories since you will have invested so much collective time together. best audiobooks for kids by age group are you interested in audiobooks for your kids, but you have no idea where to start? here is a list of our favorite 10 audiobooks for each age group! we have listened to every one of these audiobooks and can personally vouch for the fact that they are meaningful, entertaining, and worth your time. they are also all available on audible, so if you start the free audible trial you can listen to at least two for free: ages 1-3 amelia bedelia collection (peggy parrish) the complete adventures of curious george (h.a. rey) henry and mudge series (cynthia rylant) green eggs and ham and other servings of dr. seuss (dr. seuss) berenstain bear’s stories (jan berenstain) frog and toad series (arnold lobel) little bear series (else holmelund minarik) pete the cat series (eric litwin) pinkalicious series (victoria kann) fly guy series (tedd arnold) ages 4-5 the courage of sarah noble (alice dalgliesh) the bears on hemlock mountain (alice dalgliesh) 26 fairmount avenue series (tomie depaola) phoebe the spy (judith griffin) mercy watson (kate dicamillo) my father’s dragon series (ruth stiles gannett) james herriot’s treasury (james herriot) barkus series (patricia maclachlan) anna hibiscus series (atinuke) the lighthouse family series (cynthia rylant) ages 6-8 charlotte’s web (e.b. white) the mouse and the motorcycle (beverly cleary) riding freedom (pam munoz ryan) mrs. frisby and the rats of nimh (robert c. o’brien) the one and only ivan (katherine applegate) the vanderbeekers of 141st street (karina yan glaser) the invention of hugo cabret (brian selznick) the trumpet of the swan (e.b. white) understood betsy (dorothy canfield fisher) from the mixed-up files of mrs. basil e. frankweiler (e.l. konigsburg) ages 9+ esparanza rising (pam munoz ryan) number the stars (lois lowry) the giver (lois lowry) where the red fern grows (wilson rawls) roll of thunder, hear my cry (mildred taylor) julie of the wolves (jean craighead george) bridge to terabithia (katherine paterson) tuck everlasting (natalie babbitt) the twenty-one balloons (william pene du bois) island of the blue dolphins (scott o’dell) our favorite series little house on the prairie (laura ingalls wilder) ramona (beverly cleary) henry huggins (bevlery cleary) little britches (ralph moody) the chronicles of narnia (c.s. lewis) the magic tree house (mary pope osborne) the boxcar children (gertrude chandler warren) the penderwicks (jeanne birdsall) pippi longstocking (astrid lindgren) the great brain (john d. fitzgerald) i hope that as you hunker down in your home these next few weeks, audiobooks will become a big part of your family’s new routine! related: free educational programs for kids during the quarantine how i listen to free audiobooks free audible trial + bonus audiobook free audible books for kids 8 ways to get books for free 10 tips to read aloud to kids how to get your children excited about read alouds kelsey is a pastor’s wife, mother of four, book lover, piano teacher, worship leader, and home economist. she writes about her family’s favorite books at orchardreads.com. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen adidas women’s essentials cloudfoam pure shoes only $25.99 shipped (reg. $70!), plus more! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. need new sneakers? check out these hot deals on adidas shoes! adidas is offering an extra 30% off shoes and more when you use the promo code march30 at checkout! plus, shipping is free when you join the adidas creators club (free to join)! here are some deals… get these adidas women’s essentials cloudfoam pure shoes for only $25.99 shipped after the code (regularly $70)! get these adidas women’s essentials qt racer shoes for only $23.10 shipped after the code (regularly $65)! get these adidas women’s originals continental 80 shoes for just $28 shipped after the code (regularly $80)! get these adidas men’s essentials energyfalcon shoes for only $25 shipped after the code (regularly $70)! get these adidas men’s essentials 90s valasion shoes for only $28 shipped after the code (regularly $80)! get these adidas children essentials altarun shoes for just $16.10 shipped after the code (regularly $45)! get these adidas children essentials runfalcon shoes for only $17.50 shipped after the code (regularly $50)! shop the entire adidas sale here. valid through march 29, 2020. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen giant table top coloring pages only $7.99 + shipping! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. looking for something to do as a family during quarantine? these giant table top coloring pages look like so much fun for the whole family! jane has these giant table top coloring pages for only $7.99 + shipping right now! choose from three sizes and 33 different designs. shipping is $4.49 for the first page and $0.49 for each additional page shipped within the same order. psst! we love jane! looking for other great jane deals? check out our custom jane page for more of our hand-picked favorite deals each day! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen up to 80% off vera bradley purses & bags + free shipping! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. love vera bradley? you can get up to 80% off purses and bags plus free shipping right now! right now, vera bradley is offering an extra 30% off clearance sale – no promo code needed! plus, shipping is free! get this weekender travel bag in lilac medallion for just $42 shipped (regularly $120)! get this factory style little hipster in tropical paradise for just $12.25 shipped (regularly $58)! get this mailbag in superbloom for just $21.70 shipped (regularly $88)! get this factory style coin purse in pueblo for just $4.20 shipped (regularly $19)! shop the entire vera bradley sale here. thanks, passionate penny pincher! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | meg *hot* free $10 purchase at the children’s place after cash back!! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. love shopping at the children’s place for your kids? you won’t want to miss this rare offer from topcashback!! topcashback is offering $10 cash back on any $10 purchase at the children’s place, making it free! here’s how to get your free $10 the children’s place purchase: 1. head here for the special the children’s place offer and sign up for a new top cash back account. 2. make a purchase valued at $10 or higher. shipping is free. 3. within 21 days, your topcashback account will be credited with $10 — enough to cover your purchase! 4. after you receive the $10 payment in your top cash back account, you can choose to transfer it to your bank account or request a paypal payment. this is for new top cash back members only. if you are already a member, you are allowed to sign up another adult in your household. this deal is valid through april 18, 2020 — or while supplies last. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen old navy: hoodies for the family only $10! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. stock up on hoodies for the whole family with these deals at old navy today! today only, old navy has hoodies for the family for only $10! there are lots of cute styles and colors to choose from. choose free in-store pickup to avoid shipping costs. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen baby and toddler girls print skater dresses (2 pack) only $5.99 shipped! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. these baby and toddler girls print skater dresses are so cute! the children’s place has these baby and toddler girls print skater dresses for just $5.99 shipped right now! that’s just $2.99 per dress shipped! choose from two color options. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen women’s new balance fresh foam vero racer shoes only $29.99 shipped (reg. $75!) view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. if you love new balance shoes, be sure to check out the deal of the day today on these women’s fresh foam vero racer shoes! joe’s new balance has these women’s fresh foam vero racer shoes for just $29.99 today (regularly $74.99)! shipping is free. valid today only, march 27, 2020. thanks, hip2save! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen imploding kittens (first expansion of exploding kittens) only $8.99! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. grab this imploding kittens game for a great price! amazon has this imploding kittens: this is the first expansion of exploding kittens for only $8.99 when you clip the $3 off e-coupon! this expansion pack includes 20 new cards and a human sized “cone of shame”. sign up for a free trial of amazon prime to get guaranteed free two-day shipping (and possibly one-day or same-day shipping!). and don’t forget you can sign up for swagbucks to earn free gift cards to use on deals on amazon. thanks, hip2save! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 14 march 27, 2020 | gretchen sam’s club membership discount | $35 in gift cards and savings! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. this is a super hot sam’s club membership discount– the best deal we’ve seen in a really long time! {wondering if a warehouse membership is for you? check out these posts on if a warehouse membership can save you money, if a warehouse membership is a good fit for your family, and how a warehouse membership compares to amazon subscribe & save!} sam’s club membership discount if you’ve been thinking about getting a sam’s club membership, be sure to check out this hot offer that groupon is currently running! when you purchase a membership for $35, you’ll get the following: one-year sam’s club membership ($45 value) with complimentary household card $10 gift card $25 egiftcard delivered via email after first samsclub.com purchase ($25+) made in first 30 days of membership free rotisserie chicken this is such a great sam’s club membership discount, because it’s like getting the membership for free after savings! fine print: valid for new members only. go here to get this hot deal before it’s gone! psst! prefer costco? don’t miss this hot costco membership deal going on right now! 14 comments 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen melissa & doug country cottage indoor playhouse only $32.24 shipped (reg. $50!) view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. this melissa & doug country cottage indoor playhouse looks like so much fun and entertainment for the kids! amazon has this melissa & doug country cottage indoor playhouse for only $32.24 shipped when you clip the $10.75 e-coupon (regularly $49.99)! this playhouse is a 4-foot-tall indoor playhouse made of extra-thick and sturdy corrugate cardboard and includes front doors and shutters that open and close on each side. it also has several playful details including a chimney, working mail slot, illustrated tire swing, and vegetable garden. sign up for a free trial of amazon prime to get guaranteed free two-day shipping (and possibly one-day or same-day shipping!). and don’t forget you can sign up for swagbucks to earn free gift cards to use on deals on amazon. thanks, hip2save! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen elmer’s all purpose school glue sticks, 30 pack only $5.82! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. this is a fantastic price on elmer’s glue sticks! this hot deal is back!! amazon has these elmer’s all purpose school glue sticks, washable, 30 pack for just $5.82 right now! that’s just $0.19 per stick! sign up for a free trial of amazon prime to get guaranteed free two-day shipping (and possibly one-day or same-day shipping!). and don’t forget you can sign up for swagbucks to earn free gift cards to use on deals on amazon. leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen bluetooth wireless earbuds with charging case only $29.99 shipped! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. looking for some wireless earbuds for a great price? check out these bluetooth wireless earbuds! amazon has these bluetooth wireless earbuds with charging case for only $29.99 shipped when you use the promo code oy3h2z7h and clip a $10 digital coupon! these highly rated earbuds are waterproof and sweatproof and have a feature up to 6 hours of playtime. sign up for a free trial of amazon prime to get guaranteed free two-day shipping (and possibly one-day or same-day shipping!). and don’t forget you can sign up for swagbucks to earn free gift cards to use on deals on amazon. thanks, hip2save! leave a comment 27 mar 2020 · 1 march 27, 2020 | gretchen free 3-pack of hallmark greeting cards (first 333,333)! view post → add to my favorites this is such a fun freebie for a pack of hallmark greeting cards! sign up for a free 3-pack of hallmark greeting cards! available for the first 333,333 only. thanks, freebie radar! 1 comment 27 mar 2020 · 0 march 27, 2020 | gretchen nylon apple watch bands only $8.99 shipped! view post → add to my favorites this post may contain affiliate links. read my disclosure policy here. change the look of your apple watch with these nylon apple watch bands! jane has these nylon apple watch bands for only $8.99 shipped right now! choose from two sizes and dozens of colors. psst! we love jane! looking for other great jane deals? check out our custom jane page for more of our hand-picked favorite deals each day! leave a comment 1 2 3 … 2,721 next » top 5 hot deals & coupons! adidas women’s essentials cloudfoam pure shoes only $25.99 shipped (reg. $70!), plus more! *hot* free $10 purchase at the children’s place after cash back!! women’s new balance fresh foam vero racer shoes only $29.99 shipped (reg. $75!) imploding kittens (first expansion of exploding kittens) only $8.99! sam’s club membership discount | $35 in gift cards and savings! see more hot deals & coupons » best of... how i purged 91% of our stuff how eating pb&j sandwiches every day for lunch can change your life how to make homemade refried beans 55 ways to use up ripe bananas best ever chocolate oatmeal no-bake bars (clean eating) home about contact submit a deal advertise privacy policy terms of use disclosure policy affiliate portal © 2008–2020 money saving mom®, llc. all rights reserved. no content on this site may be reused in any fashion without written permission. by using this site, you are agreeing to the site's terms of use. money saving mom® is a registered trademark of money saving mom, llc. fm living | site design by five j's design.