wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides monsterinsights - google analytics plugin for wordpress rating: compatible up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get monsterinsights monsterinsights is the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. with over 34 million downloads and more than 2 million active installs, it is also the most popular google analytics plugin for wordpress. monsterinsights allows you to set up analytics in just a few clicks, and easily see at a glance how your site is performing. from your wordpress dashboard, you can see how visitors find and use your site, so you can grow your audience and keep them coming back. our goal is simple: to make analytics easy, and give you the stats that matter. we created monsterinsights to be the most powerful and user-friendly google analytics plugin in the market. google analytics can be intimidating, time-consuming, and complicated to use. with monsterinsights, you get the stats that are most important, so you can understand how your audience finds and interacts with your content. if you’re serious about creating content that works, you need analytics. without understanding your traffic sources and audience behavior, it’s impossible to know what’s working and what’s wasting your time. with monsterinsights, you can easily understand your traffic and create a data-driven content strategy to grow your audience. what do you get with monsterinsights? quick & easy setup — setting up google analytics on your site can be tricky and time-consuming specially when you’re not tech savvy. with monsterinsights, you can set up google analytics on your site in less than 5 minutes, and start getting the data you need. real-time stats — getting the analytics data you need at the right time is crucial in business. with monsterinsights google analytics tracking, you’ll get real time stats, so you can see how your website is doing right now. there’s no need to wait till the next day to see if your blog post went viral, or if your big sale is going as planned. popular post tracking — which of your posts are drawing in the most traffic to your site? monsterinsights shows you the most popular posts, pages and sections of your website, so you can get a clear view of what’s working and what’s a waste of time. file download tracking — by default, google analytics is great at measuring your traffic, but it doesn’t keep track of file downloads. with monsterinsights, you’ll be able to accurately track your file downloads, and save time and money by only producing the downloads your audience actually wants. ecommerce tracking — monsterinsights ecommerce tracking gives you all the data you need on your woocommerce or easy digital download store. with just a few clicks, you can integrate google analytics ecommerce tracking with your wordpress stores. ads tracking — do you want to make more money from your adsense banner ads? with monsterinsights ad tracking, you can see exactly how many clicks each banner ad is getting. identifying the most effective ad placements is easy. referral & link tracking — monsterinsights makes it easy for you to see exactly where your visitors are coming from, and what links they’re clicking on your site. you’ll save time and money by doubling down on what works, and dropping the rest. monsterinsights dashboard and settings ready to get stats that matter? monsterinsights takes only a few minutes to setup, and there is a risk-free 14 day money-back guarantee. get monsterinsights now discount: wpbeginner users get special 10% off if you use the coupon wpb10. note: monsterinsights is created by wpbeginner’s founder syed balkhi. follow: for tutorials on getting the most out of your analytics, you can follow monsterinsights on twitter and facebook. rating: compatibile up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get monsterinsights testimonials analytics for pros! this plugin brings it all, great features and helpful info to easily see what you are doing. frank van der sluijs simple, yet powerful. amazing piece of plugin, does exactly what expected and even more. matt jaworski i like how simple it is for client users and how i can turn on the advanced features for myself to get all the details right. skip shean works everytime! this plugin has worked with every version of wordpress i’ve ever used. very reliable. vineeta it just works. really easy way to insert google analytics tracking code and keep it there when switching themes. no need to copy/paste code anywhere. this is the best way to handle google analytics in wordpress. steven gliebe featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.