features google analytics (gdpr) improves google analytics compliance with gdpr and other privacy regulations in wordpress. learn more google analytics dashboard woocommerce analytics form conversion tracking enhanced ecommerce event tracking for wordpress eu compliance (gdpr) view all features pricing support blog login get started the best wordpress analytics plugin join 2,000,000+ professionals who use monsterinsights to grow their business with confidence. get monsterinsights now #1 google analytics plugin for wordpress that’s easy and powerful monsterinsights is the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. here are the features that makes monsterinsights the most powerful and user-friendly wordpress analytics plugin in the market. universal tracking setup universal website tracking across devices and campaigns with just a few clicks (without any code). google analytics dashboard see your website analytics report right inside your wordpress dashboard with actionable insights. real-time stats get real-time stats right inside wordpress to see who is online, what they are doing, and more. enhanced ecommerce tracking 1-click google analytics enhanced ecommerce tracking for woocommerce, easy digital downloads & memberpress. page level analytics get detailed stats for each post and page, so you can see the most popular posts, pages, and sections of your site. affiliate link & ads tracking automatically track clicks on your affiliate links, banner ads, and other outbound links with our link tracking. eu compliance (gdpr friendly) make google analytics compliant with gdpr and other privacy regulations automatically. custom dimensions setup tracking for authors, categories, tags, searches, custom post types, users, and other events with 1-click. performance & optimize enable google optimize for a/b testing, adjust speed & sample rate, and several other advanced features. ... and seamless tracking integration with your favorite plugins monsterinsights offers 1-click tracking integration with popular wordpress plugins and services get monsterinsights now see all features it just works. really easy way to insert google analytics tracking code and keep it there when switching themes. no need to copy/paste code anywhere. this is the best way to handle google analytics in wordpress. - steven gliebe - founder of churchthemes analytics for pros! this plugin brings it all, great features and helpful info to easily see what you are doing. - frank van der sluijs simple, yet powerful. amazing piece of plugin, does exactly what's expected and even more. - matt jaworski top 5 reasons why over 2 million users love monsterinsights with over 2,000,000+ active installs, monsterinsights is the most popular google analytics plugin for wordpress. here’s why smart business owners, marketers, and developers love monsterinsights, and you will too! setup google analytics on your wordpress site in minutes (without writing any code). before monsterinsights, you needed to hire a developer or know how to code to properly setup google analytics, add event tracking, configure ecommerce tracking, etc. this would take several days, if not weeks. monsterinsights makes it “effortless” to setup google analytics in wordpress, the right way. simply install the plugin and enable the features you want with just a few clicks, no coding needed! setup website analytics in 5 minutes - get monsterinsights now get to know your website visitors in a whole new way with monsterinsights, you can see useful information about your visitors right inside your wordpress dashboard. our audience report shows you which country your visitors are from, what are they most interested in, which device are they using, their age, gender, and a whole lot more. you can use these insights to improve your overall web strategy. unlock your website audience report - get monsterinsights now see exactly how people find & use your website want to see what's working on your website and what's not? monsterinsights behavior report shows you exactly how people find your website, which keywords did they search for, who referred them, what did they click on your site, and more. you can use these insights to uncover low-hanging fruits, new partnership opportunities, and the right areas to focus on! unlock your website behavior report - get monsterinsights now focus on the content that matters monsterinsights help you eliminate the “guess work” when it comes to finding out what content your visitors are interested in. our content report shows you exactly which content gets the most visit, so you can analyze and optimize it for higher conversions. combine this with our search console report and custom dimensions, you can be on your way to seo domination and higher rankings! unlock your website content report - get monsterinsights now see all your important store metrics in one place get answers to all your top ecommerce questions from a single report. monsterinsights shows you important ecommerce metrics like total revenue, conversion rate, average order value, top products, top referral sources, and more. you can use these insights to increase your sales & revenue. unlock your ecommerce report - get monsterinsights now get better insights. take action. grow faster! join over 2 million website owners and start making data-driven decisions to grow your business. get monsterinsights now how can your business benefit from monsterinsights? it's easy to double your traffic and sales when you know exactly how people find and use your website. monsterinsights shows you the stats that matter! here is how monsterinsights can boost your business growth: blogging publishers (bloggers) ... love us because we show them the insights to increase blog traffic and grow affiliate ad revenues. increase blog traffic grow affiliate & ad revenue get more email subscribers write better content add to cart store owners (ecommerce) ... love us because we show them the insights to help double sales and improve conversions. reduce cart abandonment improve conversion rate identify new referral partners double overall sales setup analytics business websites ... love us because we help them identify untapped opportunities and needle-movers. see stats that matter unlock easy-win opportunities get more email subscribers write better content pair programming agencies (developers) ... love us because we help them properly setup google analytics on client sites in less than 5 minutes. save time with analytics setup reduce mistakes and errors easy for clients to see reports raise hourly rate efficiency we use monsterinsights to grow our own businesses let’s face it - when it comes to website decisions, most business owners are just “winging it”. in the early days, when my business was smaller, i did too. i used my “best guesses” to determine our content, marketing, and frankly speaking entire web business strategy. i had my team build monsterinsights, so i can make informed decisions and grow our business with confidence. read monsterinsights’ origin story by our founder, syed balkhi trusted by over 2 million+ wordpress sites - big and small google analytics helped us optimize our art marketplace, resulting in 400% year-over-year revenue growth for our art business. mariam naficy, founder & ceo, minted 126% higher profits companies using analytics have 126% profit improvement over competitors. -- mckinsey 50% more revenue organizations actively using data have 50% higher revenue growth than those who aren't. -- dell global technology index analytics for pros! this plugin brings it all, great features and helpful info to easily see what you are doing. frank van der sluijs, small business owner 13:1 average roi investments in analytic solutions returned $13.01 for every dollar spent on average. -- nucleus research 5x more use top-performing organizations use analytics 5x more than bottom performers. -- mit sloan management review get better insights. take action. grow faster! join over 2 million website owners and start making data-driven decisions to grow your business. get monsterinsights now frequently asked questions and resources do you have a question about monsterinsights? see the list below for our most frequently asked questions. if your question is not listed here, then please contact us. what do i need to use monsterinsights? monsterinsights requires at least wordpress 4.9 and a modern web browser for viewing the admin. we do not support ie10 or below for viewing the monsterinsights admin area. visitors using your site will be tracked by google regardless of browser. does monsterinsights work on wordpress.com? monsterinsights is compatible with the wordpress.com platform if and only if you are using the business plan (which allows wordpress.com users to install plugins). monsterinsights is compatible with all normal wordpress installs. can i use monsterinsights on non-wordpress sites? no, monsterinsights is a wordpress plugin, so it will not work on sites that do not use wordpress as its primary cms. can i upgrade my license after my initial purchase? you can upgrade monsterinsights at any time from the my account area of our site. can i translate monsterinsights in my language? yes, monsterinsights and all addons are 100% translation and localization ready. how do support and updates work for monsterinsights? our users insert a single license key (regardless of how many addons they have installed) into the settings panel, which enables the same 1 click updates you're used to from any other wordpress plugin. support is available via the support tab of the my account page on this site. does monsterinsights work on wordpress multisite? yes! monsterinsights works perfectly with wordpress multisite, both network activated and activated on individual sites. the automatic updates also work for multisite as well. do you offer refunds? if you are not completely satisfied with monsterinsights after 14 days, you can request a refund and we will give you 100% of your money back – no questions asked. need help growing your business? take a look at our monsterinsights blog for tips & tricks on how to grow your business. how to set up online ordering for your restaurant website is monsterinsights worth it? (an extensive review for 2020) how to track organic keyword conversions in google analytics 15 proven ways to repurpose content on your wordpress site get started with monsterinsights today join over 2 million website owners and start making data-driven decisions to grow your business. get monsterinsights now company about press contact affiliates blog features google analytics dashboard woocommerce analytics affiliate link tracking eu compliance (gdpr) enhanced ecommerce custom dimensions form conversion tracking wordpress ads tracking google analytics for amp wordpress stats dashboard popular post tracking wordpress event tracking helpful links documentation support start a blog how to setup google analytics how to login to google analytics best wordpress hosting our brands optinmonster wpforms seedprod trustpulse isitwp awesomemotive copyright © 2013-2020 monsterinsights, llc. monsterinsights® is a registered trademark monsterinsights, llc. terms of service privacy policy sitemap monsterinsights coupon