skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources mormons is there meaning in life without religion? january 17, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments one of the things we hear a lot at church is that the gospel brings meaning to life. it answers the questions dealing with who we are, where we came from, and where we are going. and, of course, … continue reading about is there meaning in life without religion? does your past self-righteous behavior haunt you? december 6, 2015 by miranda marquit 2 comments as a college student, i had my ear pierced with second holes. not too long after that, a talk given by president hinckley indicated that multiple ear piercings were unacceptable. the first presidency … continue reading about does your past self-righteous behavior haunt you? if this is what it takes to be wheat, i think i’d rather be a tare november 8, 2015 by miranda marquit 2 comments a few days ago, i witnessed cognitive dissonance occur in real time. we all have moments of cognitive dissonance in our lives. as humans with complex brains and thinking processes, it's part and … continue reading about if this is what it takes to be wheat, i think i’d rather be a tare mormonism in context lesson 3: nauvoo and the martyrdom october 11, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment it's been a while since i had time to work through the mormonism in context course by historian brian whitney. but now that things have settled down a little bit, i've gone back to reading the mormon … continue reading about mormonism in context lesson 3: nauvoo and the martyrdom i talk fantasy and sci-fi on the rational faiths podcast may 8, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment not too long ago, i made an appearance on the rational faiths podcast. rational faiths is an interesting website with a lot of thoughtful commentary on religion, particularly mormonism. this … continue reading about i talk fantasy and sci-fi on the rational faiths podcast don’t like something? just leave! progress and the institutions we love april 2, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment for some reason, we have this idea that if you love something, if you really love something, you'll never, ever try to change it. to a certain extent, i agree with this assessment. after all, you … continue reading about don’t like something? just leave! progress and the institutions we love go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 11 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com