related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag john oliver on the "fucking assholes" who attacked paris jay hathaway · 11/16/15 09:41am whenever the daily show’s jon stewart had to report on a tragedy like friday’s terrorist attacks on paris, he would temporarily drop the jokes and speak candidly. serious jon was a little jarring to watch, at least the first couple of times, and that successfully conveyed the gravity of situation. are you like, "so what? who cares?" about living amongst roaches? rich juzwiak · 11/02/15 02:40pm there’s this guy kyle on the currently airing third season of tlc’s harrowing 90 day fiance who is terrifyingly blasé about his new orleans house’s cockroach infestation. he chalks it up to the fact that he lives in a “bachelor pad” and seems only concerned about it because it bothers his fiance noon, who has moved from thailand to be with him. (she’s in the states on a k-1 or “fiance” visa, which requires her to marry kyle after 90 days if she’s to stay in the country—hence the show’s name.) rachel dolezal receives standing ovation for admitting she was born white rich juzwiak · 11/02/15 12:58pm rachel dolezal is still up to her old tricks—chiefly, identifying as black and saying little beyond that when questioned about virtually anything—per her appearance on today’s episode of the real, the view-style roundtable talk show whose panel is made up entirely of women of color. god knows why dolezal appeared on the show—her internet-breaking notoriety earlier this year now seems several lifetimes ago. certainly, the women on the panel came ready to hand dolezal her ass. leah remini discusses her once-fellow scientologist tom cruise's bizarre offstage behavior rich juzwiak · 10/30/15 10:28pm leah remini has been openly critical of the religion she spent over 30 years practicing, scientology, since her 2013 departure from the church. on tonight’s episode of 20/20, she appeared to share more behind-the-scenes details and promote her upcoming book, troublemaker: surviving hollywood and scientology. remember when abc aired an exorcism? rich juzwiak · 10/30/15 09:57am “my name is minga!” jimmy kimmel clowns donald trump for canceling show appearance rich juzwiak · 10/20/15 11:05pm donald trump was supposed to be a guest on tonight’s jimmy kimmel live, but he pulled out last night for a “cryptic” reason, kimmel reported on the show. kimmel said that trump’s people cited a “major political commitment” as the reason trump pulled out. famous racist vogues rich juzwiak · 10/20/15 11:50am paula deen, a famous racist, vogued last night on dancing with the stars. voguing is a style of dance that was created and cultivated for the most part by black and latin gay men and trans women. (see paris is burning.) it was then mainstreamed by madonna, whose marie antoinette-inspired performance at the 1990 vmas deen attempted to replicate. report: new gilmore girls episodes coming to netflix—new ones kelly conaboy · 10/19/15 06:15pm gilmore girls ended in may, 2007. now gilmore girls is reportedly coming back, with new episodes, to netflix. new episodes. gilmore girls. netflix. twyla tharp is feisty as hell, man rich juzwiak · 10/19/15 11:54am “i never had anybody in 12 years of doing this who gave me as hard a time [as you],” tavis smiley told dancer/choreographer twyla tharp at the end of their 30-minute interview, which aired friday. at 74, she’s a firecracker, man—and one who referred to smiley as “man” about half a dozen times. highlights are in this reel, man: john oliver explains canadian elections and "dickhead" stephen harper to his american audience jay hathaway · 10/19/15 08:55am happy election day, canada! congratulations on learning that today is canadian election day, america! here’s john oliver explaining canada’s three main political parties and making a last-minute plea to our friends to the north to dump “dickhead” conservative prime minister stephen harper. amy schumer's ode to cum rich juzwiak · 10/18/15 12:05pm last night, hbo aired the one-hour standup special amy schumer: live at the apollo. it was good, if you’re into that sort of thing (i.e. schumer being schumer). my favorite bit centered on cum. it started, “i’m just reminding you that we’re all disgusting. no one in here is better than anyone else. like, you’ve all caught a hot load, you know?” watch the women of the view pummel ann coulter for four minutes rich juzwiak · 10/16/15 11:07am the smugly white performance artist ann coulter appeared on today’s episode of the view in yet another stop on her unending publicity tour for her recent book. the ensuing segment has it all! by all, i mean: this very bad wheel of fortune guess definitely ended in the wrong way jay hathaway · 10/16/15 10:52am i forgive you for thinking you’d seen the dumbest-ever attempt to solve a puzzle on wheel of fortune. i was once like you. “self-potato.” “i have the wine by johnny cash.” i’ve loved them all. but i am here today to tell you i have now witnessed an even less competent response, and open your eyes to levels of wheel misfortune previously unknown. strangers from tv at your wedding—dream, or adam levine-sponsored reality? kelly conaboy · 10/14/15 03:09pm adam levine is more than just the name behind a line of grunge clothing sold at kmart in which he is seemingly otherwise completely uninvolved. he’s also the name behind a new nbc pilot about celebs surprising people at events in which he is seemingly otherwise completely uninvolved! straight men discuss their attraction to trans women in new doc rich juzwiak · 10/13/15 04:40pm a documentary about trans women and the men who love them called sex diaries: trans lovers aired on the u.k.’s channel 4 last night. it was a regularly fascinating glimpse into a subject that’s still so taboo, host/director charlie russell reported early on that finding men to talk about their relationships with trans women wasn’t easy. "ten orgasms at the same time": this is just an incredible slavoj žižek rant rich juzwiak · 10/13/15 11:19am everyone’s favorite slovenian philosopher/marxist/accidental plagiarist slavoj žižek appeared on last night’s tavis smiley for the second time in a week. he has that much to say. so much to say. like 10 orgasms at the same time’s worth of stuff to say. check it out above or read the passage where he really takes off below: someone at ellen thought this nicki minaj parody was a good idea rich juzwiak · 10/12/15 06:30pm on today’s ellen, ellen degeneres presented a “very exclusive sneak peek” of the upcoming abc family sitcom about nicki minaj’s early life. what ran was a satirical sketch that amounted to a little over of a minute of modern minstrelsy in which members of a black family bumbled around their house impeded by their giant asses. they knocked stuff over with their big butts, and found it challenging to sit on a couch together. the little girl character was made to bend over as she was introduced. nbc prepares to deliver law and order: duggar victims unit jay hathaway · 10/12/15 04:00pm following law and order’s long tradition of basing its plots on real-life tragedies, nbc announced its special victims unit franchise will rip the story of confirmed molester and alleged pornography fanboy josh duggar from the headlines for an upcoming episode. john oliver is pissed off about north dakota's crazy, unregulated oil boom jay hathaway · 10/12/15 09:10am north dakota: home to a dangerous, loosely-policed oil industry that the state government attracted by being so darn friendly (to businesses). taxes are low and regulation is “reasonable” (basically nonexistent)—what a state. little girl explains her trans experience so clearly, a child could understand it rich juzwiak · 10/08/15 01:25pm paddy, who hails from leicester, england, was 7 years old when she was filmed for the documentary born in the wrong body: my transgender kid, which aired this week on channel 4 in the u.k. the clip above of paddy discussing her gender identity with prodigious clarity is just perfect. i love it so much. i can’t stop watching. next page terms of service privacy policy