skip to main content politico magazine the agenda pro search search sections the agenda magazine congress white house video podcasts 2020 elections news election results delegate tracker forecast endorsements issues polls money newsletters playbook playbook pm politico nightly: coronavirus special edition huddle all newsletters series the deciders what works women rule politico live live home upcoming events previous events about politico live columns & cartoons rich lowry jack shafer matt wuerker cartoon carousel policy agriculture cannabis cybersecurity defense education ehealth employment & immigration energy & environment finance & tax health care space technology trade transportation editions california canada china europe florida new jersey new york pro follow us twitter instagram facebook my account log inlog out morning media your guide to the media circus facebook twitter email print not sticking to sports — breaking up facebook — 2020 media primary — drone leak case by michael calderone ([email protected]; @mlcalderone) 05/10/2019 05:32 am edt president donald trump, left, holds up a red sox jersey that was presented to him by outfielder j.d. martinez, right, during a ceremony on the south lawn of the white house on may 9, 2019. | ap/pablo martinez monsivais president donald trump met yesterday at the white house with members of the world champion red sox, though most players of color, like mvp mookie betts, and manager alex cora skipped the event. cora, who has helped relief efforts in puerto rico in the aftermath of hurricane maria, told the ap he doesn’t “feel comfortable celebrating in the white house.” — “the red sox have sought to play down the split, but the cleaving of the team along racial lines has symbolized an era in which trump — who has sowed, and exploited, deep divisions in american society — has forced the nation to confront fundamental questions of identity,” the washington post’s david nakamura and ashley parker write, “transforming what had once been feel-good ceremonies at the white house into pitched moments of cultural reckoning,” advertisement — the first edition i wrote of morning media — back in sept. 2017 — led with trump administration attacks on nfl players for kneeling in protest of police brutality and racial inequality. “it’s getting increasingly difficult for sports journalists to sit on the sidelines and focus on scores and stats amid the entangling political, cultural, commercial, and racial implications,” i wrote at the time. — and now white house reporters are questioning red sox players about politics, even if the team’s management would likely prefer the conversation stick to sports. “i spent wednesday interviewing red sox players ahead of their game against the orioles in baltimore,” nakamura noted on twitter. “after the game, a red sox media official banned me from the clubhouse as other reporters entered and said there would be no more questions about the team’s white house visit.” welcome to the final morning media: wait, what?! so here’s the deal: morning media, as a daily newsletter, is ending. but if you’re subscribed, you’ll still be hearing from me plenty throughout the 2020 election and beyond. i'll be focused on reporting media pieces for politico, which you’ll receive regularly in your inboxes, along with links to what i’m reading about the media. — i’ll also write special editions of the newsletter pegged to big political media moments, such as democratic debates, early primaries, and conventions. the goal is to bring you more original and distinctive reporting from inside newsrooms and out on the campaign trail. — big thanks to politico editors and reporters who have helped over the past year and a half, especially daniel lippman. (keep emailing daniel with media-related items for playbook and new york playbook.) thanks to all of you who’ve read and shared this newsletter – please stick with us when we launch our new format. and special thanks to my wife miriam, who has been essential to ensuring it reaches your inboxes each morning. subscribe. archives. sen. elizabeth warren speaks to reporters during a campaign stop at mccoy's bar patio and grill on january 4, 2019 in council bluffs, iowa. | scott olson/getty images the 2020 media primary: politico’s david siders and christopher cadelago report that from jan. 1 to april 30, four candidates — bernie sanders, joe biden, kamala harris and elizabeth warren — “accounted for more than half the primary field’s traditional news media mentions, according to a data analysis conducted for politico by the media intelligence company meltwater.” — “visibility is crucial for all of these candidates,” said rose kapolczynski, a top california-based democratic strategist who is not involved in the 2020 campaign. “growing your name id, even if the article is neutral, helps you make your way into the top tier, and it reinforces for your current supporters that you have a shot at it, so they’re more likely to volunteer, they’re more likely to give money, they’re more likely to share your content.” the view from iowa: “des moines register reporters fanned across the state in april to record the questions iowans asked,” writes brianne pfannenstiel. “during the course of the month — beginning with swalwell april 1 in algona and ending with joe biden april 30 in dubuque — reporters attended 46 candidate events and recorded each of the 312 questions iowans posed to presidential contenders there.” — while “health care, climate change and education were asked about most and accounted for roughly a quarter of all questions asked in april,” notes pfannenstiel, “cable news staple topics, like russia and presidential impeachment, rarely were brought up — just a couple of times.” 1st debate details: the location for the first democratic primary debate, hosted by nbc news, msnbc and telemundo on june 26 and 27, will be the adrienne arsht center for the performing arts of miami-dade county, morning media has learned. and politico's zach montellaro reports "everything you need to know about how candidates qualify for the first debate." former intel analyst charged with leak: nbc news’s pete williams reports that former air force intelligence analyst and government contractor daniel everette hale “was charged thursday with illegally giving classified information to a reporter.” while the documents don’t name the reporter, federal officials confirmed to williams it was the intercept’s jeremy scahill, whom hale met at a book tour event in april 2013. — “the intercept does not comment on matters relating to the identity of anonymous sources,” editor-in-chief betsy reed said in a statement. “in an indictment unsealed on may 9, the government alleges that documents on the u.s. drone program were leaked to a news organization.” — “these documents detailed a secret, unaccountable process for targeting and killing people around the world, including u.s. citizens, through drone strikes,” reed continued. “they are of vital public importance, and activity related to their disclosure is protected by the first amendment. the alleged whistleblower faces up to 50 years in prison. no one has ever been held accountable for killing civilians in drone strikes.” — vanity fair’s joe pompeo notes that “hale is the third person to be prosecuted after allegedly providing the intercept with classified documents,” following reality winner and terry j. albury. a car passes by facebook's corporate headquarters location in menlo park, california, on march 21, 2018. | josh edelson/afp/getty images facebook co-founder chris hughes called for breaking up the social media giant in a nearly 6,000-word new york times op-ed and video, while also making his pitch thursday in interviews with npr and nbc. hughes, who hasn’t worked at facebook in a decade, more recently was owner of the new republic, which he sold in 2016 after a rocky stewardship. — hughes wrote that facebook chief (and his former harvard roommate) mark zuckerberg “is a good, kind person,” but hughes is “angry that his focus on growth led him to sacrifice security and civility for clicks.” hughes continues, “i’m disappointed in myself and the early facebook team for not thinking more about how the news feed algorithm could change our culture, influence elections and empower nationalist leaders.” — zuckerberg’s “influence is staggering, far beyond that of anyone else in the private sector or in government,” writes hughes, noting that facebook controls what billions of people see through its platform and subsidiaries like instagram and whatsapp. and the government, he writes, “must hold mark accountable.” today: hughes will appear on "cbs this morning" and "the daily" podcast. should the media break up with facebook? cjr’s matthew ingram points out how “facebook has not only helped hollow out newsrooms across the country but arguably lowered the overall quality of civic discussion, repeatedly flouted laws around privacy in ways that have served the needs of foreign actors like the russian government, and played a key role in fomenting violence in countries like myanmar and india.” — “is it enough to be skeptical?” ingram asks. “or is there an ethical case to be made that media companies, and the journalists who work for them, should sever their ties to facebook completely?” meanwhile, a headline yesterday on vox: “one out of every 11,600 people in san francisco is a billionaire.” revolving door the wall street journal has expanded its politics team with three new hires. john mccormick, most recently at bloomberg, is joining as a chicago-based national political reporter. tarini parti joins the national political team from buzzfeed, where she covered the white house. catherine lucey, who has covered the white house for associated press, will report on the white house for the journal. roxanne emadi, who was previously head of audience development at buzzfeed news, is joining wirecutter as director of editorial strategy and audience development. taylor hatmaker, who most recently covered privacy, policy, and big tech at techcrunch, is joining the daily beast as senior technology editor. eliza anyangwe has been named managing editor of the correspondent, the dutch media company de correspondent’s english-language operation. anyangwe explained her move in a medium post. congrats nbc “meet the press” chuck todd is receiving the milwaukee press club’s sacred cat award at tonight’s gridiron dinner in milwaukee. todd will also meet with journalism students at the university of wisconsin-madison’s school of journalism and mass communication. a poster for "the loudest voice," which premieres on showtime on june 30, 2019. | showtime extras — showtime has released the official trailer and poster for “the loudest voice,” its forthcoming series based on gabriel sherman’s reporting on late fox news chief roger ailes. — amy klobuchar's town hall on fox news drew 1.6 million viewers, according to the hill's joe concha. — the washington post's erik wemple digs into a disagreement between the new york times and bloomberg over a biden-ukraine story. — politico's jack shafer writes on "trump's fake fight against real news." — washington post columnist karen tumulty looks at how "trump’s business success was a media-made myth." — “trump, the billion-dollar loser — i was his ghostwriter and saw it happen,” charles leerhsen writes for yahoo news. — poynter’s daniel funke and the american press institute’s susan benkelman list “5 challenges for journalists covering trump in 2020.” — cjr, poynter, the tow center, and the newmark centers at columbia journalism school sponsored a conference yesterday on "the disinformation war." coverage here. — tom hanks is co-hosting a special hour of nbc's "today" on may 23 with savannah guthrie. « view archives about the author : michael calderone michael calderone is the senior media reporter for politico and writes the morning media newsletter. he previously covered the press and politics for huffington post, yahoo, and the new york observer, and has appeared on cnn, msnbc, pbs, and npr. calderone is an adjunct professor at new york university and served as a ferris visiting journalism professor at princeton university. he lives in brooklyn with his wife miriam and son noam. about us advertising breaking news alerts careers credit card payments digital edition faq feedback headlines photos powerjobs press print subscriptions write for us rss site map terms of service privacy policy do not sell my info © 2020 politico llc