skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about morrisons food boxes feed 2 adults for 1 week with next day delivery by naomi willis | last updated 23rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin morrisons is selling new food boxes filled with everyday essentials. the boxes can feed 2 adults for a week and can be delivered next day. if you’re not able to get out to buy essentials, getting an online order may be your only option if you don’t have family around to help. to make things even easier, morrisons has launched brand new food boxes to help get you everyday essentials, without you needing to leave your home. instead of having to choose items individually, as you usually would with an online order, the food boxes have been made up for you, allowing you to do an order so much faster. how do morrisons food boxes work? create an account with morrisons, if you don’t have one already, by entering your name, email address and password. if you’ve already got an account, you can just log in. you can then pick from a premade hamper of food and supplies to keep you going. there are two types of box available – either a meat or vegetarian and you can order up to two boxes per order. you can get next day delivery if you order before 3pm. what boxes are available? morrisons is currently offering two boxes. each box will feed two adults for one week. so, if you’re a family of four, you’ll need to order two boxes for the week. the boxes contain £30 worth of groceries and can be delivered safely to your door for £5. morrisons vegetarian box each box will contain different things, based on their current availability of products. there will be a variety of products in each box. morrisons say that a typical vegetarian box may include: canned baked beans, soup and pasta sauce milk dairy products such as butter and cheese bread rice and pasta vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots and onions vegetarian proteins essential household items morrisons meat box again, the boxes will have different products and contents will change depending on their availability. contents will be a bit like pot luck. there will be enough food in each box to feed two adults for one week. in a morrisons meat box you should find: canned baked beans, soup and pasta sauce milk dairy products such as butter and cheese bread rice and pasta meat products, such as sausage, bacon and cooked meat vegetables, such as potatoes, carrots and onions fresh meat such as chicken or beef essential household items allergens and ingredients there is going to be a lot of demand for the food boxes, so they cannot guarantee the contents of each box and are not able to provide allergen advice, the ingredients list or other product information online at this time. but, when you get the box, each item will be packaged and will show the labels with all relevant information, so you need to check before you consume them that they are suitable for you. :: come and join thousands of other savvy shoppers in the reduce your supermarket spend facebook community to find out tips and tricks to save money on your food shop. enjoy this post? why not also sign up to receive our newsletter. we send out all the best money saving news and tips from the site and as an added bonus you’ll get an exclusive £16 cashback from quidco (new members only) naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about