skip to main content donate donate subscribe 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts newsletters 2020 elections coronavirus richard burr public housing subscribe to our magazine donate smart, fearless journalism politics environment crime and justice food media investigations photos magazine podcasts membership ticker monika bauerlein, ceo dear reader, how are you holding up? i’ve been thinking a lot about what is happening with the mother jones community, and i’m hoping you’ll share what is happening in your life. you can do that and find out what mother jones is investigating in response to the pandemic in our new column, "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it." thanks for reading. please stay safe. in "greed destroyed our social immune system. it’s time to rebuild it," ceo monika bauerlein checks in with our community and shares how mother jones’ journalists are responding to the pandemic. mother jones illustration; getty i had to get my father's affairs in order. you do, too. don’t wait until it’s too late. clara jeffery hours after doubting the need for 40,000 ventilators, trump demanded 40,000 ventilators will peischel beyond narcissism, trump’s other personality flaws are putting americans at risk david corn how big plastic is using coronavirus to bring back wasteful bags rebecca leber campaigning as we know it is over tim murphy how old laws about “pestilence” could protect prisoners from the coronavirus madison pauly gig workers are doing essential jobs, but tech companies still insist they’re not employees jacob rosenberg more top stories how the coronavirus brought chain mail back to the mainstream ali breland we’re tracking how every state is responding to the coronavirus sinduja rangarajan self-quarantine orders meet the right-wing militia movement stephanie mencimer your city’s air pollution could make covid-19 even more dangerous jamie smith hopkins “an open license to pollute”: the epa has halted enforcement due to covid-19 rebecca leber grocery clerks are now emergency personnel in several states. california’s workers want in. becky z. dernbach coronavirus blog “shoppers have had enough”: instacart workers plan a strike jacob rosenberg capitalism is america’s religion. the virus makes that clear. delilah friedler small restaurants are furious about a loophole in the stimulus bill. they should be. kara voght boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus inae oh election blog hbo’s latest scary movie is actually a documentary on election hacking aj vicens the “single most important da race in the country” is headed to a runoff samantha michaels biden blasts trump for trying to cut obamacare during a pandemic abigail weinberg in another big night for joe biden, the former veep sweeps florida, illinois, and arizona tim murphy sign up for our newsletters subscribe and we'll send mother jones straight to your inbox. email featured ron sachs/cnp via zuma “an open license to pollute”: the epa has halted enforcement due to covid-19 rebecca leber politics “containing the virus was going to be antithetical to the economy”: joe biden’s former economic adviser on why this recession got so bad kara voght new research suggests the coronavirus probably won’t vanish in warm weather molly schwartz environment the “water is life” movement just scored a big win against an oil pipeline delilah friedler not even a pandemic can stop trump from pushing fossil fuels chris d’angelo and alexander c. kaufman media dua lipa wants you to take a break from the end of the world and dance sam van pykeren i would just like to say i’m glad bob dylan isn’t dead abigail weinberg food corona beans are delicious. i’m not joking. tom philpott “without these workers, everything ceases to exist”: how coronavirus is coming for your produce fernanda echavarri crime & justice “this feels like a death sentence”: rikers jail inmates speak out as coronavirus cases spread samantha michaels i’ve spent 27 years in solitary confinement. here are some tips on making the best use of time alone. by keith lamar as told to samantha michaels immigration ice detainees were pepper-sprayed during a briefing on coronavirus noah lanard it’s still too painful to put clothes on: an ice detainee reports he was pepper-sprayed and sent to isolation noah lanard get our award-winning magazine save big on a full year of investigations, ideas, and insights. subscribe the russian connection mother jones illustration how a russian billionaire with a criminal past became a major investor in lyft david corn sven hoppe/picture alliance/getty key senator says richard grenell “may have misled congress” dan friedman featured investigations mother jones illustration; getty she injured herself working at amazon. then the real nightmare began. tonya riley illustration by eddie guy how matt gaetz used daddy’s money to become trump’s favorite congressman stephanie mencimer podcasts from brooklyn to west virginia, inside the scramble to prepare hospitals for covid-19 march 25, 2020 corona beans are delicious. i’m not joking. march 21, 2020 kevin drum no, nancy pelosi didn’t go senile over her coronavirus bill 1 hour ago friday cat blogging – 27 march 2020 4 hours ago in the coronavirus bill, most of the money for ordinary people is thanks to democrats 4 hours ago coronavirus growth in western countries: march 26 update 8 hours ago will tipped workers be ok? 9 hours ago support our journalism help mother jones' reporters dig deep with a tax-deductible donation. donate photography dawoud bey in dawoud bey’s photography, the past isn’t past photographs by dawoud bey mag promo independent. in print. in your mailbox. inexpensive, too! subscribe today and get a full year of mother jones for just $12. subscribe april 2020 february 2020 december 2019 podcast promo smart. fearless. audio. it's us but for your ears. listen on apple podcasts. subscribe » looking for news you can trust? subscribe to our free newsletters. email about our staff financials jobs events contact us support ways to give advertise with us store subscribe magazine subscriptions give a gift subscription email newsletters podcasts customer service copyright © 2020 mother jones and the foundation for national progress. all rights reserved. terms of service privacy policy we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? we're a nonprofit (so it's tax-deductible), and reader support makes up about two-thirds of our budget. we noticed you have an ad blocker on. can you pitch in a few bucks to help fund mother jones' investigative journalism? donate not now