skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search motivation eric kim neck strap mark ii x ricoh gr ii x ricoh mafia artwear seek to supersede yourself and become more! artistic optimism passion, not discipline better bad photos than no photos the empowering feeling of failure to be human is to move enjoy the process better bad photos than no photos why keep making new art and photos, indefinitely? photography motivation: what if there is nothing interesting to photograph? move first, motivation later motivation follows the action in praise of heroes 5 tips how to boost your creativity how to have inspiration to take photos in the suburbs anything that motivates you to move is good! the productive photographer is the happiest photographer! make today count! how to break through photographer’s block the joyful photographer the dancing photographer the kaizen process of gradual self-improvement in photography it is your duty to make beautiful pictures! making pictures is happiness! no excuses. the pomodoro photography technique the abc of photography just shoot it. how to change the world with photography how to find inspiration in photography and life how to overcome resistance create against the past how i motivate myself to make photos wear your camera like a necklace or bracelet have your photos come to you how to level up in your photography how not to give a fuck of what others think of you how to overcome procrastination in your photography how to reinspire your photography what is your mission in photography and life? how to overcome photographer’s block be a photographer now how to overcome boredom with photography never stop growing as a photographer why do you need “inspiration” to shoot? just shoot. 5 things to do if you’ve lost your passion for photography how to have unshakeable confidence in yourself don’t give up on your dream don’t waste your potential unlock your potential empower others with your photography why you shouldn’t follow your passion in photography see all articles > primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta