got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos film flickers featured the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... movie star jeremy renner wants a huge reduction in child support, claims he’s financially struggling because of coronavirus! home › jeremy renner › movie star jeremy renner wants a huge reduction in child support, claims he’s financially struggling because of coronavirus! despite starring in some of the biggest blockbusters of the past decade, jeremy renner says the coronavirus pandemic is already doing major damage to his bank account. according to tmz, the hawkeye star filed a request to lower his child support payments to his ex, sonni pacheco, on monday, claiming that, like many unemployed americans, his financial situation has changed immensely over the past few weeks. in the docs, the oscar nominee said he already knew that 2020 would be an unfruitful year for him because his work in the avengers series is done. while renner did have other work lined up this year, he said many of those productions are “likely canceled or postponed” due to the covid-19 outbreak, noting: “it is likely that most productions will not resume again prior to the end of the year. as such, the projects that i had previously lined up to film this year are likely canceled or postponed.” the 49-year-old currently pays his ex about $30,000 per month for their daughter ava’s housing, food, transportation, and clothing. while he hasn’t requested a specific number, renner says he believes ava’s “reasonable needs” come to about $11,000 per month. related: jeremy’s exes claim he threw wild parties & had threesomes while watching ava! but the request isn’t just about his tighter budget: renner is also accusing pacheco of using the child support funds to get more money out of him! apparently, renner says the 28-year-old is using these payments as a “slush fund” to support her lifestyle and to wage a custody war against him in court. his attorney said in the court docs: “sonny’s voracious appetite for jeremy’s money has no end in sight.” saying these two have been involved in a bitter custody battle would be an understatement. as we reported, the candian model claimed in legal docs that renner once threatened to kill her, as well as himself, during an alleged incident in november 2018. related: jeremy shuts down his ‘official’ app after trolls impersonate him sonni claimed the actor was high on cocaine and alcohol at a club when he started talking about killing her, telling someone he “could not deal with her anymore, and he just wanted her gone.” at the end of the night, renner allegedly put a gun in his mouth, threatening to kill himself, and fired the gun into the ceiling while ava was asleep in her bedroom. the actor, for his part, accused his “sex-obsessed” ex of sending nude photos of him to their custody evaluator. do u think he should get to pay less in child support, perezcious readers? [image via wenn] related posts jeremy renner’s ex slams alleged ‘lies’ after the actor asks for reduced child support payments! trying cbd cotton candy for the first time! plus, celeb craziness! lady gaga, dua lipa, kim kardashian & taylor swift! and more! |perez hilton big miley cyrus news! the ace family keeps winning! take jeremy renner’s daughter away! and… | perez hilton the ace family is suing! was gina rodriguez wrong for using that word? kylie jenner quits kuwtk – for now! and… | perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 24, 2020 5:35pm pdt share this categories baby momma drama coronavirus film flickers jeremy renner legal matters perezcious parenting perezitos view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy