style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop movies & tv what are you in the mood to watch? i'm in the mood for only one thing... march 19, 2020 344 who’s your celebrity crush? who’s your current celebrity crush*? i have a big new one… march 4, 2020 476 the neighbors’ window this beautiful oscar-winning short film is worth watching. february 25, 2020 98 the 10 real winners of the oscars the awards we wish we could give. february 10, 2020 135 9 real winners of the golden globes the awards we wish we could give. january 6, 2020 140 infidelity, netflix style streaming the hottest tv shows behind your partner's back. november 26, 2019 97 a funny relationship question a funny way to see if your partner is the one. november 14, 2019 403 what movies have you seen lately? the funniest snl spoof of downton abbey. october 8, 2019 96 the 9 real winners of the emmys the awards we wish we could give. september 23, 2019 54 ‘this way up’ might be your new favorite show a recommendation so good i can't wait to share it. september 10, 2019 166 load more about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me design most popular my sister’s home makeover 8 awesome podcasts john derian lives in a sea captain’s house behind the scenes: making a magazine cover what’s the most beautiful thing you’ve ever read? the #1 item you need for house guests our brooklyn family apartment 9 great instagram accounts 14 genius tips for living in a small space this cozy minnesota home will make you want a candelabra load more design favorite books design house tours design weekend link lists disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style spring trend: pearls (do you wear them?) food crispy farro and tomato salad design a charming home in the ohio cornfields travel my #1 trick for choosing a vacation rental relationships how many siblings do you have? motherhood help! what do you make for family dinner? about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out