skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: moving make moving less stressful with our organizing guides, pre-move checklists and more. the pros and cons of purchasing a new build we all love “shiny and new” — and newly-built single-family homes are downright irresistible. and when the existing home inventory is limited, and consumers have confidence in the market, a significant number of homeowners will consider a newly-built residence. however, it’s not a slam-dunk decisio… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in moving follow these 4 tips to stay organized when you’re moving on a short deadline moving is never easy, but when you have to move quickly, it can feel like a much more difficult task. with that in mind, we’ve brought you four tips on how to stay organized when you’re moving on a short deadline. whether you’re moving for a new job that’s starting… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving should you rent or buy a house? seems like everyone is buying a condo or house these days. and there are tons of shows on hgtv about renovating your home making you wonder: should you rent or buy a house? can you even afford to buy? we’re here to help you make that decision. ask yourself some… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving when is a lowball offer a good idea? let’s face it: buying a home is like a game of chess, and each person is trying to outwit the other. you want to purchase the house for the least amount of money and the seller is trying to get as much as possible out of the deal. so when… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in moving how to increase your chances of winning a bidding war you’ve found the house you love. but, apparently, so have other buyers — and it’s the same house. when several buyers want to compete for the same property, how do sellers choose among offers? what can you do to increase your chances of getting the home? freshome asked several experts to… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in moving here’s how much it costs to sell your home in 2020 zillow, the real estate database, released a report showing the hidden costs of selling. so how much does it cost you to sell your house in 2020? get ready to spend about $21,000. don’t balk at the cost yet, though. some of that cost goes toward… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving comps 101: how comparables can help you sell your home so you want to sell your house. you know there are some key things you need to do like stage the interior and work on your curb appeal. you might think, especially if you’re hiring a real estate agent, that everything else… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in moving home-buying millennials are obsessed with lawns and gardens the u.s. census bureau says homeownership is up over last year. in their words, “the national homeownership rate has risen to 64.4 percent.” and realtor magazine says that jump is “largely attributed to the rise in new, first-time homebuyers.” these first-time homebuyers are… by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in moving escrow 101: what you need to know escrow is simpler than you might expect, and it’s key in real estate transactions. image: worldwide/shutterstock when you buy a house, you basically have to learn a whole new language. between figuring things out with your mortgage lender and navigating the results of the home inspection, you&… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in moving selling your home: should you move or improve? it’s almost impossible for one home to meet your needs completely as you age, grow and change. eventually, you’ll need to either buy a new home or improve on what you have to better suit your lifestyle, especially if you’re not happy in your place. but how do you know… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in moving 1 2 … 10 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss