kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about movies see also... video trailers remix tv film school books star wars lists walter murch design animation lord of the rings evan puschak audio best of sight & sound: the cinema of walter murch posted by jason kottke mar 27, 2020 from jon lefkovitz, sight & sound is a feature-length documentary film about the legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch, who edited and did sound design for films like the godfather, apocalypse now, and the conversation. this feature-length documentary, viewed and enjoyed by legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch himself (“the conversation”, “apocalypse now”), was culled by jon lefkovitz from over 50 hours of murch’s lectures, interviews, and commentaries. that’s the whole film embedded above, available online for free. here’s the trailer in case you need some prodding. i haven’t watched the whole film yet, but i’m definitely going to tuck into it in the next few days. see also worldizing — how walter murch brought more immersive sound to film. more about... film school jon lefkovitz movies sight & sound video walter murch ads via carbon stream helvetica & other design documentaries for free posted by jason kottke mar 23, 2020 thinking that some people might need high quality entertainment while shut inside due to the covid-19 pandemic, filmmaker gary hustwit is streaming his films online for free, one film per week. first up (from mar 17-24) is helvetica, his documentary on typography and graphic design. here’s the trailer: click through to watch the whole film. (via daring fireball) more about... design gary hustwit helvetica movies trailers typography video remaking the spider-verse trailer with traditional animation techniques posted by jason kottke mar 05, 2020 animator pinot ichwandardi, designer/illustrator dita ichwandardi, and their three young children decided to remake some of the iconic scenes from the spider-man: into the spider-verse trailer using traditional animation techniques. you can see some of the process and the impressive results in the video above. they drew the scenes by hand, built their own multiplane camera setup (a la disney), and constructed a camera rig using lego. you can read more about their process in these two twitter threads: one, two. after they were done, sony animation invited the family to visit their california campus to meet some of the team that worked on the movie, including producers phil lord and chris miller. see also how animators created spider-verse. more about... animation dita ichwandardi movies pinot ichwandardi remix spider-man trailers video a military historian’s look at the siege of gondor in peter jackson’s return of the king posted by jason kottke mar 03, 2020 in a six-part series on his blog, roman military historian bret devereaux took a close look at the siege of gondor in peter jackson’s return of the king, the final movie in the lord of the rings trilogy. looking at the logistics of moving the army of mordor to minas tirith is actually a great way to introduce some of these problems in more depth. they say ‘amateurs talk tactics, but professionals study logistics.’ well, pull up a chair at the grown-ups table, and let’s study some logistics. the army sauron sends against minas tirith is absolutely vast — an army so vast that it cannot fit its entire force in the available frontage, so the army ends up stacking up in front of the city. the books are vague on the total size of the orcish host (but we’ll come back to this), but interview material for the movies suggests that peter jackson’s cgi team assumed around 200,000 orcs. this army has to exit minas morgul — apparently as a single group — and then follow the road to the crossing at osgiliath. is this operational plan reasonable, from a transit perspective? in a word: no. it’s not hard to run the math as to why. looking at the image at the head of the previous section, we can see that the road the orcs are on allows them to march five abreast, meaning there are 40,000 such rows (plus additional space for trolls, etc). giving each orc four feet of space on the march (a fairly conservative figure), that would mean the army alone stretches 30 miles down a single road. at that length, the tail end of the army would not even be able to leave camp before the front of the army had finished marching for the day. for comparison, an army doing a ‘forced march’ (marching at rapid speed under limited load — and often taking heat or fatigue casualties to do it) might manage 20 to 30 miles per day. infantry on foot is more likely to average around 10 miles per day on decent roads. i admit i did not have time to read this whole thing this morning, but posts like these are some of my favorite things online. see also rome, sweet rome, a people’s history of tattooine, and some of my logistical questions about mad max: fury road. (via studio d radiodurans) more about... bret devereaux lord of the rings movies peter jackson how miles davis made “kind of blue” posted by jason kottke feb 20, 2020 from the feature-length documentary miles davis: birth of the cool that’s debuting on pbs’s american masters next week, this is a short clip about how miles’ masterpiece, kind of blue, came together in the studio. miles davis didn’t provide sheet music for his musicians during the recording of his iconic album “kind of blue.” he said that “i didn’t write out the music for ‘kind of blue.’ but brought in sketches ‘cause i wanted a lot of spontaneity in the playing.” here’s the trailer and a couple of other clips from the film. (via @tedgioia) more about... miles davis miles davis: birth of the cool movies pbs trailers tv video deepfake video of robert downey jr. and tom holland in back to the future posted by jason kottke feb 19, 2020 this deepfake video of back to the future that features robert downey jr. & tom holland as doc brown & marty mcfly is so convincing that i almost want to see an actual remake with those actors. (almost.) they really should have deepfaked zendaya into the video as lorraine for the cherry on top. here’s an earlier effort with holland as marty that’s not as good. more about... artificial intelligence back to the future movies remix robert downey jr. tom holland video the times of bill cunningham posted by jason kottke feb 17, 2020 in 1994, legendary street fashion photographer bill cunningham gave a six-hour interview about his life and work. this interview was recently rediscovered and made into a documentary called the times of bill cunningham. here’s a trailer: the movie is out in theaters, but the reviews so far are mixed, especially when compared to the rave reviews received by 2011’s bill cunningham new york. still, cunningham is a gem and i will watch this at some point soon. (via recs) more about... bill cunningham bill cunningham new york fashion movies nyc photography the times of bill cunningham trailers video inglourious basterds’ witty slate clapper posted by jason kottke feb 13, 2020 geraldine brezca has worked on several of director quentin tarantino’s movies,1 and for inglourious basterds, she was the slate operator — i.e. she clapped the clapper before each scene. and as this video shows, she was very entertaining and creative in her duties: for each scene’s label, brezca came up with something funny (a66f = “au revoir 66 fuckers”), ribald (29b = “29 blowjobs”), appropriate (39fe = “39 feet essential” on a scene featuring feet), respectful (4ak = “4 akira kurosawa”), or profane (79e = “79 fucking explosives”, which got quite a chuckle from brad pitt). see also here’s why slate operators matter (and why quentin tarantino’s is so great). brezca’s imdb page shows that the last movie she worked on was django unchained in 2012. not sure if she left the industry or passed away or what…↩ more about... brad pitt geraldine brezca inglourious basterds movies quentin tarantino video wes anderson’s the french dispatch posted by jason kottke feb 12, 2020 trailer ↑. well, if you like wes anderson this looks terrific. and if you don’t, well, perhaps not. the french dispatch is about a weekly literary magazine in the style of the new yorker. from the actual new yorker: wes anderson’s new movie, “the french dispatch,” which will open this summer, is about the doings of a fictional weekly magazine that looks an awful lot like — and was, in fact, inspired by — the new yorker. the editor and writers of this fictional magazine, and the stories it publishes — three of which are dramatized in the film — are also loosely inspired by the new yorker. anderson has been a new yorker devotee since he was a teen-ager, and has even amassed a vast collection of bound volumes of the magazine, going back to the nineteen-forties. that he has placed his fictional magazine in a made-up french metropolis (it’s called ennui-sur-blasé), at some point midway through the last century, only makes connecting the dots between “the french dispatch” and the new yorker that much more delightful. amazing…he basically made a movie about the new yorker archives. and btw, writing “teen-ager” instead of “teenager” is the most new yorker thing ever — but at least it wasn’t “teën-ager.” back to the movie, it’s got a cracking cast: benicio del toro, adrien brody, tilda swinton, léa seydoux, frances mcdormand, timothée chalamet, jeffrey wright, bill murray and owen wilson all star and then the supporting cast includes liev schreiber, elisabeth moss, willem defoe, saoirse ronan, christoph waltz, jason schwartzman, anjelica huston, and even the fonz, henry winkler. the poster is quite something as well: opens july 24…can’t wait! more about... movies the french dispatch the new yorker trailers video wes anderson the booksellers posted by patrick tanguay feb 05, 2020 i’m very much here for this! “a behind-the-scenes look at the new york rare book world.” includes interviews with fran lebowitz, susan orlean, kevin young and gay talese. antiquarian booksellers are part scholar, part detective and part businessperson, and their personalities and knowledge are as broad as the material they handle. they also play an underappreciated yet essential role in preserving history. the booksellers takes viewers inside their small but fascinating world, populated by an assortment of obsessives, intellects, eccentrics and dreamers. from the trailer: the people that i see reading actual books in the subway are mostly in their twenties, it’s one of the few encouraging things you will ever see int he subway. more about... books movies trailers worldizing - how walter murch brought more immersive sound to film posted by jason kottke jan 31, 2020 i love echo - any kind of reverberation or atmosphere around a voice or a sound effect that tells you something about the space you are in. that’s a quote from legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch. in the 70s, he pioneered a technique called worldizing, for which he used a mix of pristine studio-recorded and rougher set-recorded sounds to make a more immersive soundscape for theater audiences. he used it in the godfather, apocalypse now, and american graffiti: george [lucas] and i took the master track of the two-hour radio show with wolfman jack as dj and played it back on a nagra in a real space — a suburban backyard. i was fifty-or-so-feet away with a microphone recording that sound onto another nagra, keeping it in sync and moving the microphone kind of at random, back and forth, as george moved the speaker through 180 degrees. there were times when microphone and speaker were pointed right at each other, and there were other times when they were pointed in completely opposite directions. so that was a separate track. then, we did that whole thing again. when i was mixing the film, i had three tracks to draw from. one of them was what you might call the “dry studio track” of the radio show, where the music was very clear and sharp and everything was in audio focus. then there were the other two tracks which were staggered a couple of frames to each other, and on which the axis of the microphone and the speakers was never the same because we couldn’t remember what we had done intentionally. more about... american graffiti audio evan puschak film school movies video walter murch beastie boys story posted by jason kottke jan 29, 2020 here’s the trailer for beastie boys story, a feature-length documentary about the band directed by spike jonze. the film will debut in early april in imax theaters and be out on apple+ later that month. from rolling stone: the documentary is a live extension of 2018’s beastie boys book, a memoir that paid tribute to yauch, who died of cancer in 2012. “looking back, it’s like, oh shit, that was crazy — how did we live through that?” horovitz told rolling stone of the memoir. “and look at us now. we’re grown-ups. we have to think about mortgages. i gotta get dog food.” live portions of the documentary were taken from horovitz and diamond’s recent show at kings theatre in brooklyn; it was all part of a live tour directed by jonze that consisted of q&a segments, readings, and guest moderators. more about... beastie boys beastie boys story movies spike jonze trailers video darth costanza posted by jason kottke jan 27, 2020 the premise is pretty simple and there’s no need to oversell it because you can imagine what this is going to sound like going in and it delivers perfectly: george costanza’s father’s voice dubbed over darth vader’s dialogue in star wars. serenity now! (quickly: luke = jerry, han = george, leia = elaine, chewie = kramer. does that even work? (obi-wan = uncle leo? is 3po newman?)) more about... movies remix seinfeld star wars tv video the short student film that became napoleon dynamite posted by jason kottke jan 22, 2020 while in film school at byu, jared hess made a short film called peluca in just a couple of days for under $500. two years later, peluca and its main character (played by jon heder) became the basis of napoleon dynamite. here’s the original short — the main character’s name is seth instead of napoleon but the moment he speaks his first line, you know it’s the same exact character: see also the case of the napoleon dynamite problem. (via open culture) more about... jared hess movies napoleon dynamite video kenobi, a star wars fan film posted by jason kottke jan 17, 2020 although the announced disney+ series about obi-wan kenobi may shed some light on the matter, we don’t know too much about what “ben kenobi” was up to on tatooine after the events of revenge of the sith, besides keeping an eye on luke. this short film made by a group of star wars fans as a “love letter” to the series shows what may have happened after the empire makes its presence known when luke is just a young boy. (via kevin kelly) more about... movies remix star wars video the best best picture lineups in oscar history posted by jason kottke jan 17, 2020 using their extensive database of member ratings, letterboxd averaged the ratings for the best picture nominees for each year to determine which years ranked highest. the top five are (official academy winners marked w/ an asterisk): 1975 (one flew over the cuckoo’s nest*, barry lyndon, dog day afternoon, jaws, nashville) 2019 (ford v ferrari, the irishman, jojo rabbit, joker, little women, marriage story, 1917, once upon a time in hollywood, parasite) 1976 (rocky*, all the president’s men, bound for glory, network, taxi driver) 1974 (the godfather part ii*, chinatown, the conversation, lenny, the towering inferno) 1994 (forrest gump*, four weddings and a funeral, pulp fiction, quiz show, the shawshank redemption) 1975 was apparently the clear winner but 2019 in the #2 spot is a very strong showing, especially considering there are the ratings of nine nominees to average instead of just five. but as this analysis shows, the academy and letterboxd users do not often agree on which picture is “actually” best: it is often said that the academy doesn’t always choose the nominee that *actually* deserves best picture. and according to the average ratings of the nominees on letterboxd, that is true about 76% of the time! i’d guess there’s also a recency bias at work (newer films tend to get rated higher), as well as age-related (i’d guess letterboxd skews young-ish?) and gender-related (majority male, but probably not as much as imdb) biases. it would be neat to see how controlling for those effects would affect the average ratings. (via @mrgan) more about... best of lists movies oscars how 1917 was filmed to look like one long continuous take posted by jason kottke jan 15, 2020 1917 is the latest in a string of one-shot movies, where the action is presented in real-time and filmed to look as though it were done in one continuous take. this video takes a look at how director sam mendes, cinematographer roger deakins, and editor lee smith constructed the film. in this interview, smith & mendes say that the film contains dozens of cuts, with shots lasting anywhere from 39 seconds to 8 & 1/2 minutes. my favorite parts of the video are when they show the camera going from hand-held to crane to truck to cover single shots at a variety of speeds and angles. it’s really impressive. but — does the effect work to draw the audience into the action? i saw 1917 last night and was distracted at times looking for the cuts and wondering how they seamlessly transitioned from a steadicam sort of shot to a crane shot. maybe i’d read too much about it going in and distracted myself? more about... 1917 film school lee smith movies roger deakins sam mendes video steven soderbergh’s media diet for 2019 posted by jason kottke jan 14, 2020 every year, director steven soderbergh publishes a list of the movies, books, tv series, short films, and short stories he’s watched and read over the course of the year (one of the inspirations for my media diet posts). for many creators, the key to making good work is to read and watch widely with an emphasis on quality — it’s difficult make great work if your ingredients are poor — so soderbergh’s 2019 list is a fascinating look at the director’s inputs for the next year’s creative endeavors. some observations: the pace here is incredible…2,3,4 movies in a day, several episodes of tv shows in a sitting. he didn’t watch star wars: rise of skywalker but did watch the kenobi fan film. he binged succession in three days. finishing fleabag took him more than a month. he watched marriage story and the irishman on the same day. one day he did a mini mike judge film festival: office space and idiocracy. i remember from past lists that he watches some movies over and over…that doesn’t seem to be the case this year. more about... books lists movies steven soderbergh tv retitling “little women” so men will go see it posted by jason kottke jan 14, 2020 the audience for greta gerwig’s little women is running about 2/3 women and 1/3 men. bruce handy has some suggestions for a title change that would entice more men to check the movie out. “star wars, episode x: the rise of amy” “four girls, one teacup” “into the marchverse” “the jo supremacy” i saw little women on new year’s day and loved it — one of my favorite 2019 movies for sure. it’s idiotic that gerwig didn’t get nominated for a best director oscar. see also kaitlyn greenidge’s opinion piece, the bearable whiteness of ‘little women’. more about... bruce handy greta gerwig kaitlyn greenidge little women movies remix hand-painted movie posters from ghana in the 80s & 90s posted by jason kottke jan 13, 2020 in order to drum up business for local movie theaters in africa (most notably in ghana), theater owners would commission local artists to paint movie posters. when frank armah began painting posters for ghanaian movie theaters in the mid-1980s, he was given a clear mandate: sell as many tickets as possible. if the movie was gory, the poster should be gorier (skulls, blood, skulls dripping blood). if it was sexy, make the poster sexier (breasts, lots of them, ideally at least watermelon-sized). and when in doubt, throw in a fish. or don’t you remember the human-sized red fish lunging for james bond in the spy who loved me? “the goal was to get people excited, curious, to make them want to see more,” he says. and if the movie they saw ended up surprisingly light on man-eating fish and giant breasts? so be it. “often we hadn’t even seen the movies, so these posters were based on our imaginations,” he says. “sometimes the poster ended up speaking louder than the movie.” you can check out more of these amazing artworks in this twitter thread, this bbc story, on the aiga site, and at poster house, which has an exhibition of these posters up through feb 16. update: i removed this modern-day spoof of the ghanaian posters from the post. the tell is the reference to this amazing gif. (thx, erik) more about... art design ghana movies ian mckellan’s 1999 lord of the rings blog posted by jason kottke jan 11, 2020 starting in 1999 with his casting as gandalf and continuing through 2003, ian mckellan wrote a blog called the grey book about his experiences starring in peter jackson’s lord of the rings movie trilogy. (his website is getting pounded right now, so check out the internet archive mirror if you can’t get through.) so the journey has begun without me. on monday 11th october, elijah wood et al gathered in hobbiton — and i hear they are behaving themselves! i have been in toronto, masquerading as magneto, the master of magnetism, on the set of bryan singer’s “x-men.” i have just sent peter jackson an e-mail of good luck. i don’t expect an immediate reply — directing a film is totally time-consuming. meanwhile, tolkien aficionados are mailing to the “grey book.” from teenagers and readers old as wizards come the advice, the demands, the warnings — united by the hope that the film’s gandalf will match their own individual interpretations of the lord of the rings. i take comfort from the general assurance that they approve of the casting (not just of me but of all the other actors so far announced - thrilling news that cate blanchett is joining us.) yet how can i satisfy everyone’s imagined gandalf? simply, i can’t. and yet i believe he did satisfy almost everyone. maybe mckellen will even reprise his role as the wizard in the upcoming amazon series. (via a very excited stephen colbert) more about... ian mckellan lord of the rings movies weblogs parasite’s perfect montage posted by jason kottke jan 02, 2020 from evan puschak, this is an analysis of a tightly edited five-minute montage in the middle of bong joon-ho’s parasite in which a family of schemers removes the last obstacle in their way of a luxurious life of service. (this next bit is way off topic…i am not even going to try and connect it to the movie or puschak’s thoughts on editing.) in looking for an appropriate quote from the video, i went searching in youtube’s automatically generated transcript of the video and instead discovered whatever fancy ai program they’ve employed for transcription had some problems with the korean language spoken in the video: well the kogi’s held on crew could to work a contra cut under something crazy kangaroo hot lava could carry yours a tiny car would cause a huge bang engines in his element saw cars motherfuckers christian wear boxers and couvent a easy call it to minaj monica city on criminals chief juniper gun and a car don’t belong back in case come on joey tell him to cool on the cloud coronas our tornado man hold it up on watch from atlanta also, peaches are a thing now in movies! more about... evan puschak language movies parasite video youtube my recent media diet, the late 2010s edition posted by jason kottke dec 30, 2019 every month or two for the past couple of years, i’ve shared the movies, books, music, tv, and podcasts i’ve enjoyed (or not) recently. here’s everything i’ve “consumed” since late october. uncut gems. watching this movie replicates very closely what it feels like to live in nyc (and not in a good way). this movie contains one of my favorite scenes of the year and sandler is a genius. (a) seduce and destroy with josh safdie, benny safdie & paul thomas anderson (a24 podcast). the best bits of this were fascinating but some of it was too inside baseball. listen to this after seeing uncut gems. (b+) the song of achilles by madeline miller. the iliad as a romance novel (of sorts). loved it. (a) hustlers. jennifer lopez did not require fancy cameras or the de-aging cgi of the irishman to make her look 20 years younger. (b+) the amazing adventures of kavalier & clay by michael chabon. such a great alchemy of subjects — kind of a miracle how it all works together. (a-) jesus is king. boring. christian hip hop isn’t any better than christian rock. born again kanye? i miss the old kanye… (c-) the dark crystal: age of resistance. wonderfully creative. a couple of really disturbing parts though for kids. (a-) the dark crystal. watched this after age of resistance and it holds up really well. (b+) tunes 2011-2019. gets better with every listen. (a-) the laundromat. soderbergh and streep? this should have been better. (b) the fifth season by n.k jemison. liked this but it didn’t make me want to immediately start the next book in the series. (b+) 21 lessons for the 21st century by yuval noah harari. lots to chew on in this one but i ultimately didn’t finish it. but that’s more on me than harari. (b+) david whyte: the conversational nature of reality (on being). “sometimes it takes darkness and the sweet / confinement of your aloneness / to learn / anything or anyone / that does not bring you alive / is too small for you.” whyte sounds like a fascinating person. (a-) star trek: deep space nine. re-watched the entire series over the past several months. strong in the middle seasons but not a great ending. (b+) the oj simpson trial (you’re wrong about…). excellent multi-part reexamination of the oj trial centered on the women, principally nicole brown simpson but also marcia clark and paula barbieri. it took me awhile to get used to the sometimes-too-casual banter about distressing subject matter, but their knowledge and discussion of the subject matter won me over. (a-) ad astra. the filmmakers couldn’t find a way to do this movie without the voiceover? just let pitt act…everything he says is obvious from his face. beautiful though. (b+) dead wake by erik larson. engaging account of the sinking of the lusitania, which eventually & circuitously led to the entry of the united states into world war i. (a-) the wonderful wizard of oz. this wasn’t my favorite book i’ve read with my kids. (b-) the devil next door. interesting story but i wanted more from this re: the nature of truth & evil. (b) the lighthouse. sunshine x fight club. (a-) ford v ferrari. driving home from the theater, it took every ounce of self-control not to put the pedal on the floor and see if my car can do 120 on a vermont county road. (a-) the crown (season 3). i didn’t like this quite much as the first two seasons, but i did like the overt and not-so-overt references to brexit. there was a low-stakes-ness to this season which fits with other exported british media (downton, british baking show) and the country’s rapidly dwindling status as a world power. (b+) menu mind control (gastropod). really interesting discussion of how menus are constructed to balance the needs of the restaurant and the desires of the diner. buckle up though…gastropod is one of the densest podcasts out there. (a-) a beautiful day in the neighborhood. a surprisingly trippy adaptation of one of my favorite magazine articles on fred rogers. hanks is great as usual. (b+) coco. another pixar gem. (a-) a table for two, please? (talk money). from a new podcast by my pal mesh — the first episode is about the business side of opening and running restaurants. (b+) knives out. from the hype this got, i was expecting a bit more than a good murder mystery but it was just a good murder mystery. (b+) marriage story. great performances all around, but jesus why did i watch this? it captures very well the feeling and experience of divorce. total ptsd trigger though. (d/a-) galatea. engaging short story by madeline miller. (b+) star wars: rise of skywalker. impossible at this point for anyone to objectively review the ninth movie in a series which in some ways has defined culture of the last 40 years. i loved it, even the hokey parts. (a) high life. not even sure what to say about this one. (b-) past installments of my media diet are available here. more about... books media diet movies music podcasts tv video the eyeless girls posted by jason kottke dec 26, 2019 hélène delmaire paints portraits of girls without eyes. delmaire did all of the paintings for the film portrait of a lady on fire and even appears painting in the film. i did pretty much all the paintings except the one that’s without a face. céline and the actresses would work out how the scene was going to go. once that was set up, i’d come, take a photo and while they were shooting the scenes, i went to a little corner of the castle and did my sketches. delmaire sells originals and prints of her work here. (via @alteredq) more about... art helene delmaire movies portrait of a lady on fire making waves: the art of cinematic sound posted by jason kottke dec 26, 2019 i am fascinated with the sound of movies, from the soundtracks to the foley effects and even temp music. making waves is a documentary about this integral aspect of cinema. here’s a trailer: directed by veteran hollywood sound editor midge costin, the film reveals the hidden power of sound in cinema, introduces us to the unsung heroes who create it, and features insights from legendary directors with whom they collaborate. featuring the insights and stories of iconic directors such as george lucas, steven spielberg, david lynch, barbra streisand, ang lee, sofia coppola and ryan coogler, working with sound design pioneers — walter murch, ben burtt and gary rydstrom — and the many women and men who followed in their footsteps. (thx, dunstan) more about... audio making waves movies music trailers video star wars spoiler generator posted by jason kottke dec 23, 2019 from randall munroe at xkcd, here’s a spoilers generator for the latest star wars movie. in this star wars movie, our heroes return to take on the first order and new villain theranos with some help with their new friend dab tweetdeck. rey builds a new lightsaber with a beige blade, and they head out to confront the first order’s new superweapon, the moonsquisher, a space station capable of cutting a planet in half and smashing the halves together like two cymbals. they unexpectedly join forces with their old enemy boba fett and destroy the superweapon in a battle featuring kylo ren putting on another helmet over his smaller one. p.s. rey’s parents are obi-wan and laura dern. more about... movies randall munroe star wars the 25 best films of 2019 posted by jason kottke dec 19, 2019 hey, merry ehrlichmas! david ehrlich’s video countdown of his top 25 films of the year is one of my most anticipated end-of-the-year thingers. viewing it always makes me want to watch movies for three straight days. as a companion, ehrlich listed the movies here, along with the most memorable moment from each. watching “the irishman,” especially for the first time, you get the sense that it’s teeming with hidden moments that will cling to you like barnacles for the rest of your life. some of them are more apparent than others: pacino chanting “solidarity!” pesci saying “it’s what it is.” ray romano asking de niro if he’s really guilty at heart. the film’s most indelible treasures are lurking a bit deeper under the surface. on my second viewing, nothing hit me harder than the rhyme between two distant confrontations: as a child, peggy suspects that her father is hiding some demons, but frank directs his daughter back to her breakfast. years later, peggy wordlessly confronts her dad with daggers in her eyes, and frank is so far beyond salvation that his only recourse is to keep eating his cereal like nothing ever happened. some random thoughts on the list and the year in movies: surprised to see ad astra so high — i didn’t hear great things so i skipped it. i thought i saw a lot of movies this year, but this list once again proves me wrong. i can’t wait to see uncut gems. no booksmart? i really loved booksmart. i did not like once upon a time in hollywood and knives out as much as everyone else did. i mean, they were fine, but… great to see hustlers on the list — when jennifer lopez gets good roles, she knocks the cover off of the ball. give jennifer lopez more good roles! see also these two 2019 movie trailer mashups: (thx, brandt & david) more about... best of best of 2019 david ehrlich lists movies video the trailer for tenet, christopher nolan’s next time-bending film posted by jason kottke dec 19, 2019 christopher nolan loves to play around with time. in most of his films — interstellar, memento, dunkirk, inception — time flows slow, fast, and in unexpected directions. his latest project, tenet, appears from the above trailer to be no different, with events occurring in reverse and characters observing events that haven’t happened yet. you can read more about the movie here, but here in the real world, we’re going to have to somehow wait through the normal passage of time until july 17th, 2020 to see it. (thx, aaron) more about... christopher nolan movies tenet trailers video come and see posted by jason kottke dec 19, 2019 elem kilmov’s 1985 soviet anti-war film come and see is getting a 2k restoration and theatrical re-release in 2020. in a 4/4 star review of come and see, roger ebert called it “one of the most devastating films ever about anything”: it’s said that you can’t make an effective anti-war film because war by its nature is exciting, and the end of the film belongs to the survivors. no one would ever make the mistake of saying that about elem klimov’s “come and see.” this 1985 film from russia is one of the most devastating films ever about anything, and in it, the survivors must envy the dead. director steven soderbergh called it “one of the best things i’ve ever seen”. more about... come and see elem kilmov movies trailers video war cool multiplane animation in this pinocchio clip from 1940 posted by jason kottke dec 18, 2019 this is a 45-second clip from pinocchio, an animated film made by disney in 1940. the scene itself isn’t that exciting…until you actually start to wonder, wait, how was this made? the way the camera effortlessly swoops past buildings and through archways like one of pixar’s infinitely pliable virtual cameras, the depth of field changing as we pan and zoom toward pinocchio’s door — how did they do that 80 years ago, animating by hand? the film’s animators achieved this effect using a relatively recent invention, the multiplane camera. the basic idea is that instead of animating characters against a single static background, you can animate several layers of independently moving scenes painted on glass. in a 1957 film, walt disney himself explained how the camera worked: and here’s how disney used the technique in dozens of scenes from snow white to bambi to 101 dalmatians: because we’re seeing the output of an actual camera zooming and panning, many of these scenes feel more grounded in reality than even some of today’s best digital output. even 80 years later, the effect is impressive, a real testament to the collaborative talent of disney’s animators & technicians. more about... animation disney movies pinocchio video walt disney older posts kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives