moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in moz pro moz pro how it works solutions pricing testimonials start my free 30-day trial how it works solutions pricing testimonials start my free 30-day trial moz pro mozbar your free all-in-one seo toolbar for research on the go. download mozbar free compatible with chrome web browser. by downloading mozbar, you agree to the moz terms of use mozbar the industry's leading seo toolbar – over 500,000 installs and climbing – mozbar gives you instant metrics while viewing any page or serp. custom searches create custom searches by engine, country, region, or city. metrics that matter access and compare link metrics across pages while viewing any serp. on-page highlighter find and highlight keywords on a page and differentiate links by type: followed, no-followed, external, or internal. page overlay expose page elements, general attributes, markup, link metrics, and http status. authority scores quickly assess ranking probability with page authority and domain authority. data export export your serp analysis details to a csv file. used by seo experts every day. kristina kledzik seo manager at rover.com the mozbar has been a critical part of my link building strategies and competitive analysis for 5 years now, through agency work and in house seo. it's the tool that gets the most excited responses when you share it with your clients: it's easy to use, easy to understand, and adds an extra layer of information to every website you visit. definitely a must have for any seo. michael cottam president at oztech, inc i use the mozbar all day long, every day, on every project. the serp overlay gives instant, critical information on the competitiveness of any given query, and the domain and page stats give a valuable snapshot of the link juice 'big picture'. and, the new spam score tells me if trouble's brewing as a result of past seo efforts ... even if the client is unaware of or not admitting to iffy link-building activity in their past. when i'm doing on-page analysis, the core elements (page title, meta description, h1, rel canonical, meta robots, etc.) are right at my fingertips without needing to do a view source or kick off my crawler. logan ray digital marketing specialist at beacon two-clicks is all you need for basically any seo-related data point you could ever want. on-page elements, http status codes, link metrics, schema markup, keyword difficulty ... it's all only 2 clicks away! mozbar is the single most useful item in my seo toolbox, and it keeps getting better. stop wasting your time, download mozbar! mozbar premium features keyword difficulty view the keyword difficulty score for any search term on any serp in real-time. page optimization get instant page optimization detail and content suggestions for any keyword on any page. more metrics dig deeper into page and serp analysis data with root domain and subdomain links, unlimited open site explorer reports and more. try mozbar premium with a free 30-day trial of moz pro. start my free trial moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today