moz products blog about search resources resources moz pro moz local free seo tools log in menu icon-close seo learning center broaden your seo knowledge with resources for all skill levels. the beginner's guide to seo if you're brand new to seo, start here. seo q&a get answers from the moz community. free downloads and more quick access to whitepapers, reports, guides, webinars, and case studies. help hub learn how to use moz products. community & events connect with over 600k online marketers. seo training instructor-led classes and seminars an all-in-one seo toolset to boost your search engine rankings. learn about moz pro get started free link explorer the ultimate link analysis tool, complete with competitor insights. keyword explorer discover and prioritize the best keywords for your site. mozbar get live page metrics right in your chrome browser. moz pro home campaigns monitor your seo performance and get insights to increase organic traffic. local market analytics beta spot opportunity in target markets with local metrics and top serp competitors. research tools keyword explorer link explorer fresh web explorer on-page grader on-demand crawl rank checker local data management solution to help customers find your business online. learn about moz local get started free moz local enterprise local data management that is simple and cost effective for hundreds or thousands of locations. check my online presence see how complete and consistent your business’s location appears across the web. manage location dashboard check online presence search products blog about resources seo learning center the beginner's guide to seo seo q&a free downloads and more help hub community & events seo training moz pro learn about moz pro moz pro home link explorer keyword explorer mozbar moz local learn about moz local moz local enterprise check my online presence free seo tools log in legal legal : privacy policy terms of use privacy policy terms of use privacy policy moz privacy policy updated march 17, 2020 seomoz, inc. ("company," "moz," or "we") respect your privacy and are committed to protecting it through our compliance with this policy and any applicable laws when you use the website at www.moz.com and any related website or domain operated by moz (the “sites”), or any services (defined in the next paragraph) accessed from any sites, or both of the sites and services or attend any moz events that require registration. moz offers various services (the “services”) to provide businesses and individuals access to a rich collection of resources related to search engine optimization and inbound marketing, including without limitation search engine optimization tools, link analysis tools, downloadable toolbars, application program interfaces ("apis"), site profile services, search analytics, blogs, user-generated content, personalized content, and industry surveys and opinion polls. this privacy policy describes the types of information we may collect from you or that you may provide when you visit our sites or use our services in general, and our practices for collecting, using, maintaining, protecting, and disclosing that information. this privacy policy informs you of additional information and rights you may have pursuant to certain applicable regulations related to privacy and data protection. if you are located in the european union, the general data protection regulation effective 25 may 2018 (“gdpr”) applies to information about you (“personal data” under gdpr) that moz may collect. in that case, and under gdpr, you are defined as a “data subject,” moz is a “data controller” for personal data that moz obtains and “processes,” and this policy explains your rights with respect to that personal data. in addition, the california consumer privacy act, codified at cal. civ. code §1798.100 et seq., including future amendments as well as any final implementing regulations adopted by the state of california department of justice office of the attorney general (together, “ccpa”) also now protects “personal information” that identifies, relates to, describes or can be associated with, or reasonably can be linked (directly or indirectly) with a specific individual (“consumers”) or household in california. if you think moz is processing your personal information, please see the section in the policy below with the heading “your rights under california privacy statutes” for more information about moz and ccpa. this policy applies to information we collect: on the sites. under gdpr, this policy also applies to personal data to the extent that you as a data subject under gdpr provide that personal data to or it is collected from you on the websites of certain moz partners who provide a service registering you for moz events such as mozcon (e.g. eventbrite or bizzabo) and those partners in their capacity as data controllers share any event attendee/participant personal data with moz. in email, text, and other electronic messages between you and the sites. through mobile and desktop applications you download from the sites or in connection with the services, which provide dedicated non-browser-based interaction between you and the sites. from third parties, whether they are partners or vendors. please read this policy carefully to understand our policies and practices regarding your information and how we will treat it. if you do not agree with our policies and practices, your only recourse is not to use our sites or services. by accessing or using the sites or services, you agree to this privacy policy. this policy may change from time to time (see changes to our privacy policy below). your continued use of these sites or services after we make changes is deemed to be acceptance of those changes, so please check the policy periodically for updates. children under the age of 13 our sites are not intended for children under 13 years of age. no one under age 13 may provide any information to or on the sites. we do not knowingly collect personal information from children under 13. if you are under 13, do not use or provide any information on the sites or on or through any of its features/register on the sites, make any purchases through the sites, use any of the interactive or public comment features of the sites, or provide any information about yourself to us, including your name, address, telephone number, email address, or any screen name or user name you may use. if we learn we have collected or received personal information from a child under 13 without verification of parental consent, we will delete that information. if you believe we might have any information from or about a child under 13, please contact us at legal@moz.com. gdpr lawful bases for processing personal data of data subjects under gdpr, moz may only process the personal data of a data subject lawfully if moz has at least one of six lawful bases for processing the personal data. currently under this version of the privacy policy, moz relies on at least one of the following legal bases to process personal data under gdpr: in order to perform pursuant to one or more legal agreements (contracts) with you, with your consent, and pursuant to a legitimate interest, in which moz considers the purpose it has for processing your personal data, whether the processing is necessary for that purpose, and whether your own personal interests as a data subject outweigh moz’s purpose in processing your personal data. (as a reminder, if you are not a data subject providing your personal data to moz from within the european union, gdpr does not apply to you.) information we collect about you and how we collect it we collect several types of information from and about users of our sites and services, including information: by which you may be personally identified, such as name, postal address, email address, or telephone number ("personal information"); that is about you but individually does not identify you, such as your company name and job title; and/or about your internet connection, the equipment you use to access our sites, and usage details. (under gdpr, moz collects personal data from data subjects from within the eu, and personal data is considered to be broader and to include more categories of information than how we generally refer to “personal information” in this policy. we will be specific when we are discussing gdpr and activities we undertake related to personal data under gdpr.) we collect this information: directly from you when you provide it to us. automatically as you navigate through the site using cookies and other tracking technologies defined and discussed with more detail below. information collected automatically may include usage details, email address, ip addresses, and information collected through cookies and other tracking technologies. from third parties, for example, our business partners and third-party service providers who we believe in good faith are providing or sharing with us data in compliance with applicable laws or with whom you have authorized either these third parties or us or both to collect and use the data. information you provide to us the information we collect on or through our sites or services may include: information that you provide by filling in forms on our sites. this includes without limitation information provided at the time of subscribing to the services, and when you report a problem with our sites. records and copies of your correspondence (including email addresses), if you contact us. your responses to surveys that we might ask you to complete for research purposes. details of transactions you carry out through our sites and of the fulfillment of your orders. you may be required to provide financial information before placing an order through our sites. your search queries on the sites. information you enter into our sites about your marketing activities so that we can provide services to you. you also may provide information to be published, displayed, or transmitted (hereinafter "posted") on public areas of the sites, or transmitted to other users of the sites or third parties (collectively, "interactive content"). your interactive content is posted on and transmitted to others at your own risk; we cannot control the actions of other users of the sites with whom you may choose to share your interactive content. therefore, we cannot and do not guarantee that interactive content will not be viewed by unauthorized persons. usage details, ip addresses, cookies, and other technologies as you navigate through and interact with our sites and services, we may automatically collect certain information about your equipment, browsing actions, and patterns, including without limitation: details of your visits to our sites, including traffic data, location data, logs, and other communication data and the resources that you access and use on the sites. information about your computer and internet connection, including your ip address, operating system, and browser type. the information we collect automatically is statistical data and does not identify any individual*. it helps us to improve our sites and services and to deliver better and more personalized future services by enabling us to do things such as: estimate our audience size and usage patterns. store information about your preferences, allowing us to customize our sites according to your individual interests. speed up user searches. recognize you when you return to our sites. provide better services in the future. (*the information referred to above may still constitute personal data under gdpr even though more generally moz does not try to identify any individuals beyond recognizing them when they return to the sites in order to provide and/or to enhance the experience described in 2. to 5. above; however, to the extent this information is not anonymized or pseudonymized to the extent that it no longer qualifies as personal data, moz will comply with gdpr with respect to processing any such personal data.) the technologies we use for this automatic data collection may include: cookies (or browser cookies). a cookie is a small file placed on the hard drive of your computer. you may refuse to accept browser cookies by activating the appropriate setting on your browser. however, if you select this setting you may be unable to access certain parts of our sites. unless you have adjusted your browser setting so that it will refuse cookies, our system will issue cookies when you direct your browser to our sites. flash cookies. certain features of our sites may use local stored objects (or flash cookies) to collect and store information about your preferences and navigation to, from, and on our sites. flash cookies are not managed by the same browser settings as are used for browser cookies. for information about managing your privacy and security settings for flash cookies, see choices about how we use and disclose your information. web beacons. pages of our the sites and our emails may contain small electronic files known as web beacons (also referred to as clear gifs, pixel tags, and single-pixel gifs) that permit us, for example, to count users who have visited those pages or opened an email and for other related website statistics (for example, recording the popularity of certain website content and verifying system and server integrity). we do not collect personal information automatically, but we may tie this information to personal information about you that we collect from other sources or you provide to us. however, to the extent the information we collect by automatic means constitutes personal data under gdpr either before or after we collect it, our processing of that personal data will comply with gdpr. how we use your information we use information that we collect about you or that you provide to us, including any personal information: to present our sites and their content to you. to provide you with information, products, or services that you request from us. to fulfill any other purpose for which you provide it. to provide you with notices about your subscriptions to the services, including expiration and renewal notices. to carry out our obligations and enforce our rights arising from any contracts entered into between you and us, including for billing and collection. to notify you about changes to our sites or any products or services we offer or provide though it. to allow you to participate in interactive features on our sites. in any other way we may describe when you provide the information. for any other purpose with your consent. we never sell your personal information or provide it to others for their own and exclusive marketing purposes. disclosure of your information we may collect and disclose anonymous and aggregated information about our users and subscribers, and other information that does not identify any individual without restriction for the purposes of product research, to improve our services and for other commercial purposes. we may disclose personal information that we collect or that you provide as described in this privacy policy as follows: we share your personal information with trusted third parties who are our technology suppliers and partners where we have agreements to provide services with or in conjunction with moz services that our marketing research indicates you have sought if not actually requested, such as google analytics, worldwide business location map and other location-specific software as a service offerings, and reliable keyword data services for seo. moz is committed to working with suppliers and partners who comply with similar and equally protective undertakings of privacy and confidentiality. we share your personal information with third parties who perform functions on our behalf and who also provide services to us, such as professional advisors, it consultants carrying out testing and development work on our business technology systems, research and mailing houses and function coordinators, including software systems for customer relationship management (customer relationship management/sales force automation, e.g. salesforce.com), customer service and support solutions (e.g. intercom), email campaign marketing (e.g. marketo and hubspot). these third parties comply with similar and equally protective undertakings of privacy and confidentiality. we do not currently have very limited affiliated companies. however, as we grow our business, we will likely share your personal information with our other affiliated (“group”) companies for internal reasons, primarily for business and operational purposes. as we continue to develop our business, we may sell or purchase assets. if another entity acquires us or merges with us, your personal information will be disclosed to such entity. also, should any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding ever be brought by or against us, all such information will be considered an asset of ours and as such it is possible they will be sold or transferred to third parties. where required, we share your personal information with third parties to comply with a legal obligation; when we believe in good faith that an applicable law requires it; at the request of governmental authorities conducting an investigation; to verify or enforce our terms of use (https://moz.com/terms-of-use) or other applicable policies; to detect and protect against fraud, or any technical or security vulnerabilities; to respond to an emergency; or otherwise to protect the rights, property, safety, or security of third parties, visitors to our website, our business, or the public. to fulfill the purpose for which you provide it. for example, if you give us an email address to use the "email a friend" feature of our sites, we will transmit the contents of that email and your email address to the recipients. for any other purpose disclosed by us when you provide the information. with your consent. when we share personal data under gdpr with our partners, we will do so pursuant to gdpr appropriate data processing addendum or data sharing agreements as appropriate given the nature of the parties’ respective roles under gdpr (i.e. data controllers to data processors versus co-data controllers). we may also disclose your personal information: to enforce or apply our terms of use and other agreements, including for billing and collection purposes. if we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property, or safety of moz, our customers, or others. this includes exchanging information with other companies and organizations for the purposes of fraud protection and credit risk reduction. choices about how we use and disclose your information we strive to provide you with choices regarding the personal information you provide to us. for those users of our services and sites outside of the european union and for which gdpr does not apply, we have created the following mechanisms and practice to provide you with the following control over your information: tracking technologies and advertising. you can set your browser to refuse all or some browser cookies, or to alert you when cookies are being sent. to learn how you can manage your flash cookie settings, visit the flash player settings page on adobe's website. if you disable or refuse cookies, please note that some parts of this site may then be inaccessible or not function properly. promotional offers from the company. if you do not wish to have your contact information used by the company to promote our own or third parties' products or services, as an account holder or subscriber at any other time you can make changes by logging into the sites and adjusting your user preferences in your account profile by checking or unchecking the relevant boxes. for forms on which we collect information or data from non-account holders, we will switch our practice to the extent applicable law requires (e.g. gdpr) so that by default you are opted-out and can opt-in only by checking the relevant box located on the form on which we collect your information or data. if you find that you are receiving communications that you do not believe you have provided consent, you can alert us to your concerns by sending us an email stating your request to legal@moz.com. if we have sent you a promotional email, you may send us a return email asking to be omitted from future email distributions. this opt out does not apply to information provided to the company as a result of a product purchase, warranty registration, product service experience, or other transactions. accessing and correcting your information you can review and change some of your personal information by logging into the sites and visiting your account profile page. you may also send us an email at legal@moz.com to request access to, correct, or delete any personal information that you have provided to us. in some cases, we cannot delete your personal information except by also deleting your user account. we may not accommodate a request to change information if we believe the change would violate any law or legal requirement or cause the information to be incorrect. if you delete your interactive content from the sites, copies of your interactive content may remain viewable in cached and archived pages, or might have been copied or stored by other users of the sites. proper access and use of information provided on the sites, including interactive content, is governed by our terms of use. gdpr process for exercising data subject’s rights in personal data for those users of our services and sites from within the european union and for which gdpr applies, we have created the following mechanisms and practices to provide you with the following control over your personal information that comprises gdpr personal data: what are your rights? by law, if any of your personal information/personal data provided to moz is subject to gdpr in the european union, you have a number of rights when it comes to your personal information/personal data. further information and advice about your rights can be obtained from the data protection regulator in your country. important: when you contact moz to exercise your rights described below, it is very important for security verification and other purposes that you use any email address that you know is associated with the personal information/personal data about which you are contacting moz. 1. the right to object to processing you have the right to object to certain types of processing, including processing for direct marketing (i.e. if you no longer want to be contacted with potential opportunities). how to exercise your right: if you want to object to certain types of processing, please direct your communication to legal@moz.com providing specific and detailed information regarding your objection and requested action. 2. the right to be informed you have the right to be provided with clear, transparent, and easily understandable information about how we use your personal data and your rights. this is why we are providing you with the information in this privacy policy and also are available if you want information that you do not believe this privacy policy provides. how to exercise your right: if you have questions about the privacy policy or how moz may be processing your personal data, please direct your communication to legal@moz.com and please be specific and detailed about your questions and moz will promptly address those questions. 3. the right of access you have the right to obtain access to your personal data (if we are processing it), and certain other information about or privacy practices with respect to your personal data (similar to that provided in this privacy policy). this is so you are aware and can check that we are using your information in accordance with gdpr or any other applicable data protection laws. how to exercise your right: if you have questions specific to your personal information/personal data and how moz is using it in accordance with gdpr or other applicable laws, please direct your communication to legal@moz.com and please be specific and detailed about your questions and moz will promptly address those questions. 4. the right to rectification you are entitled to have your information corrected if it is inaccurate or incomplete. how to exercise your right: if you believe your personal information/personal data processed by moz is incorrect and needs to be updated or otherwise corrected, please check your settings with respect to your account, and if you still believe your personal data is inaccurate, direct your communication to help@moz.com (and you also may "copy" legal@moz.com). 5. the right to erasure this is also known as “the right to be forgotten” and, in simple terms, enables you to request the deletion or removal of your personal information/personal data where there’s no compelling reason for us to keep using it. this is not a general right to erasure; there are exceptions. how to exercise your right: if you no longer want moz to have and process your personal information/personal data, please direct your communication to help@moz.com (and you also may "copy" legal@moz.com). (note: consistent with gdpr, moz may retain a trivial amount of information to keep a record of its compliance with your request.) 6. the right to restrict processing you have rights to “block” or suppress further use of your personal information/personal data that moz processes. when processing is restricted, we can still store your personal information/personal data, but may not use it further. we keep lists of people who have asked for further use of their information to be “blocked” to make sure the restriction is respected in future. for clarity, if you do make these requests, it does not mean that anything we have done with your personal information/personal data with your consent up to that point is unlawful. how to exercise your right: if you no longer want to restrict moz from processing your personal information/personal data, please direct your communication to help@moz.com (and you also may "copy" legal@moz.com). 7. the right to data portability you have rights to obtain and reuse your personal information/personal data for your own purposes across different services. for example, if you decide to switch to a new provider of services like the services from moz that you subscribed to, this enables you to move, copy, or transfer your personal information/personal data easily between our it systems and theirs safely and securely, without affecting its usability. how to exercise your right: if you want moz to export your personal information/personal data for portability, please direct your communication to help@moz.com (and you also may "copy" legal@moz.com). (note: moz will retain and continue to process your personal information/personal data unless you also request to be forgotten or request restricted or blocked processing.) 8. the right to lodge a complaint you have the right to lodge a complaint about the way we handle or process your personal information/personal data with your national data protection regulator. however, we hope you will contact moz first (legal@moz.com) so moz can try to address your complaint directly. how to exercise your right: if you want to lodge a complaint with moz, please direct your communication to legal@moz.com. 9. the right to withdraw consent if you have given your consent to anything we do with your personal information/personal data, you have the right to withdraw your consent at any time. this includes your right to withdraw consent to us using your personal information/personal data for marketing purposes. how to exercise your right: if you want moz to withdraw your consent to process your personal information/personal data, please direct your communication to help@moz.com (and you also may "copy" legal@moz.com). we usually act on requests and provide personal information/personal data free of charge, but may charge a reasonable fee to cover our administrative costs of providing the personal information/personal data for: baseless or excessive/repeated requests, or further copies of the same personal information/personal data. alternatively, we also may be entitled to refuse to act on the request. please consider your request responsibly before submitting it. we will respond as soon as we can. generally, this will be within one month from when we receive your request but, if the request is going to take longer to deal with, we will come back to you and let you know. most importantly, please understand that if you are a paid/unpaid subscriber to a moz service, many types of personal information/personal data are necessary for moz to maintain and continue your account, along with the subscription to any services which that personal information/personal data is associated. if the personal information/personal data can no longer be used by moz for that purpose, it may necessitate terminating the account and/or subscription (without any refund) and discontinuing access to and the use of the service and/or sites to which the personal information/personal data is associated. we will use reasonable efforts to advise you of any such adverse consequences of restricting or removing our ability to maintain accounts and subscriptions by requests related to personal data, e.g. removal, restriction, blocking, etc. moz’s retention of personal data under gdpr and other applicable laws we only retain your personal information/personal data for as long as is necessary for us to use your information as described above or to comply with our legal obligations and legitimate interests. please be advised that this means that we may retain some of your personal information/personal data after you cease to use our services. for instance, we may retain your data as necessary to meet our legal obligations, such as for tax and accounting purposes. when determining the relevant period in which we retain or establish/revise periods for retaining personal information/personal data, we will take the following factors into account: our contractual obligations and rights in relation to the information involved; legal obligation(s) under applicable law to retain data for a certain period of time or with respect to pending or anticipated legal actions; our legitimate interest where we weigh your interest in controlling your personal data and against our lawful purpose in processing your personal data; statutes of limitations under applicable law(s); if you have made a request to have your information deleted; and guidelines issued by relevant data protection authorities. otherwise, pursuant to gdpr, we will securely erase your personal information/personal data once there is no lawful basis or legal obligation to store or process it. your rights under california privacy statutes cal. civ. code section § 1798.83 permits users of our sites that are california residents to request certain information regarding our disclosure of personal information to third parties for their direct marketing purposes. to make such a request, please send an email to legal@moz.com or write us at: 1100 2nd avenue, suite 500, seattle, wa 98101. moz currently is modifying or creating processes, technology and disclosures related to managing regulated personal information as needed to comply with ccpa by the extended deadline of january 1, 2021. other than ccpa’s regulations related to “sale” of personal information, moz will not become subject to most of ccpa’s requirements, until january 1, 2021, pursuant to an amendment to ccpa passed late in 2019 applicable to businesses that only do business with other businesses (b2b), and sometimes referred to as “the temporary b2b exemption.” the temporary b2b exemption is codified in ccpa at cal. civ. code § 1798.145(n). moz’s privacy policy for years has stated and still states “[w]e never sell your personal information or provide it to others for their own and exclusive marketing purposes.” moz continues to believe that statement is true and correct. ccpa, however, adds specific requirements for third parties to be a “service provider” to otherwise avoid transfer of personal information to these third parties being deemed a “sale” under ccpa. like most companies, managing vendor or other third-party access to moz information is a complicated and continuing effort. in this ongoing process, if moz determines its relationships with any third-party having access to ccpa personal information risks being a “sale” for lack of meeting the service provider definition or satisfying another ccpa exception to a “sale,” moz will promptly act to remediate that relationship by aligning it with ccpa’s service provider requirements or otherwise to prevent the relationship resulting in a sale under ccpa. again, moz never has wanted and nor does moz want to sell to or provide any personal information to any third party for their own exclusive marketing purposes. data security we have implemented measures designed to secure your personal information from accidental loss and from unauthorized access, use, alteration, and disclosure. all information you provide to us is stored on our secure servers behind firewalls. any payment transactions will be encrypted using ssl technology. the safety and security of your information also depends on you. where we have given you (or where you have chosen) a password for access to certain parts of our sites, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential. we ask you not to share your password with anyone. we urge you to be careful about giving out information in public areas of the sites like message boards. the information you share in public areas may be viewed by any user of the sites. unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not completely secure. although we do our best to protect your personal information generally and in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot guarantee the security of your personal information transmitted to our sites or via our services. any transmission of personal information is at your own risk. we are not responsible for circumvention of any privacy settings or security measures contained on the sites or via the services. changes to our privacy policy it is our policy to post any changes we make to our privacy policy on this page. if we make material changes to how we treat our users' personal information, we will notify you by email to the primary email address specified in your account and/or possibly through a notice on the sites’ home page. the date the privacy policy was last revised is identified at the bottom of the page. you are responsible for ensuring we have an up-to-date active and deliverable email address for you, and for periodically visiting our sites and this privacy policy to check for any changes. contact information to ask any other questions or comment about this privacy policy and our privacy practices on subjects in which a process for making request is not already provided above, contact us at legal@moz.com. in accordance with gdpr article 27, we have appointed the following company as our official eu representative: verasafe ireland ltd. unit 3d north point house north point business park new mallow road cork t23at2p ireland tel: ++42 (0) 228 881 031 verasafe online inquiry contact form updated march 17, 2020 moz contact products api free trial terms & privacy jobs help news & press copyright 2020 © moz, inc. all rights reserved. back to top seo tools keyword research seo audit & crawl backlink research rank tracking seo toolbar domain analysis local marketing business listings audit citation cleanup local ranking factors local for enterprise marketing resources moz blog beginner’s guide to seo community q&a workshops & training recommended seo companies moz solutions agency enterprise small & mid-sized businesses get the moz top 10 the 10 most valuable pieces of content we can find for seos. every 2 weeks. subscribe today