skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search muse by kim $ 290 – handcrafted from start to finish – pure italian vachetta leather and onyx crocodile leather – bespoke avant-garde design in ephemeral edition of 20 only 15 left in stock muse by kim quantity add to cart category: camera straps, bags, & t-shirts description description discover muse — the supreme strap. one strap to rule them all. triple black. an expression of your individuality. pure craft and elegance. the onyx crocodile leather peeking through. the unwavering attention to detail. the soul of the artisan in every stitch. handcrafted from start to finish in pure italian vachetta leather. timeless each muse is unique, and one of a kind. muse is the apex of art and design, fused together in harmony. muse is an investment fashion trends come and go, but muse will remain. muse is engineered to last (longer) than a lifetime. designed to pass down to your children, and their grand-children. muse is future-proof. compatible with leica, fujifilm, sony, olympus, and most mirrorless cameras. muse is an extension of your ego muse is not to be pampered. muse is meant to be used and abused. muse will forever accompany you in your future photographic journeys. dangerously bold. muse defies convention and refuses to be constrained in a box. muse is both bold and functional, and will motivate you to explore more. muse is meant to strike up a conversation. muse is meant to awaken your aesthetic senses, and heighten your appreciation for art, luxury, and the apex of design. muse is not necessary muse is not necessary. it won’t improve your photography or make you more inspired. however muse will heighten your artisanship. muse will give you peace of mind, knowing that it is the ultimate strap. muse– for the brave, intrepid, and inspired. aesthetics muse is designed to be worn at front mid-chest level. the length of muse can be adjusted depending on your height or stature. compatibility muse will fit all digital leica m-cameras (leica m10, leica m240, leica m9, monochrom, etc), practically all film cameras, fujifilm x100-series cameras (as well as the x-pro series and xt-series) with side lugs. muse will also fit sony a7-series cameras, and most micro 4-3rd and mirrorless systems with side lugs. ephemeral edition of 20 only 20 muse straps exist. invest in one before they all disappear. you may also like… the city of angels by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart related products sale! henri shoulder strap $ 169 – $ 179 select options eric kim neck strap mark ii $ 119 read more sale! henri wrist strap pro $ 89 $ 69 select options primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta