menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies music music the life-changing power of passion daniel moore exactly which ‘lover’ masterpiece best represents you based on your zodiac sign lacey ramburger he loves wilco and i ask, ‘who?’ jacqueline kirkpatrick this is which boy band best represents you, based on your zodiac sign katee fletcher which genre of music you embody, based on your zodiac sign katee fletcher a playlist for when you’re awake for some reason at 4 am hana lamboy a spotify playlist for when everything feels too much erin cinney latest music articles these songs are all about coronavirus and honestly, they’re catchy af kelly peacock “ the ‘ol virus blues. a valentine’s day playlist to help celebrate love in every form meg mccarney “ i consider it to be a celebration of love in all forms—platonic, unrequited, self-love, and yes, romantic. the 50 best songs to blast when you’re sad and want to wallow in your misery january nelson “ the next time you’re sad, and want to dwell in that sadness, put on this playlist. the new halsey song that just ‘gets’ each zodiac sign january nelson “ virgo: “in my world i’m constantly, constantly having a breakthrough. or a breakdown.” are you sharing songs with someone new? lauren tyler “ i can’t stand being reminded of you. not yet. a spotify playlist for when you just need to feel the things you’re avoiding isabella housel “ this is the playlist for when you just need to feel. a love letter to my chemical romance and the emo kids we used to be callie byrnes “ in some ways, we are still just a generation of emo kids. the unbridled hope of kanye west’s sunday service kiara williams “ i couldn’t help but think to myself, “this must be what heaven feels like.” the life-changing power of passion daniel moore “ lack of purpose doesn’t just deaden you; it leads to a kind of degeneration. a spooky playlist to put you in the mood for halloween january nelson “ it’s not halloween until you hear these songs! more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.