welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 9 top music courses to get you groovin’ published on: feb 09, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 3751 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post edx welcomes juilliard! published on: sep 26, 2017 by johannes heinlein 5244 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to announce that the juilliard school, a world leader in performing arts education, has joined the community of edx partners. juilliard’s mission is to provide the best artistic education for gifted musicians, dancers, and actors so that they can reach their goals as artists, leaders and global citizens. more than 800 artists from 44 states and 42 foreign countries are currently enrolled... read more about edx welcomes juilliard! philosophy, apps & music. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 29, 2016 by monil shah 4097 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better study consciousness, interact with virtual patients or build the next big mobile app. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. learn about jazz and enjoy a live concert published on: jan 29, 2016 by lisa forrest 4021 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog from hamilton college’s jazz: the music, the stories, the players course team. a mooc and a live stream concert the latest mooc to be offered by hamilton college will be led by monk rowe, the joe williams director of the jazz archive and lecturer in music performance. jazz: the music, the stories, the players, is designed for all levels of experience and... read more about learn about jazz and enjoy a live concert learn entrepreneurship from the beatles published on: jan 25, 2016 by panos panay 5054 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from berklee’s creativity and entrepreneurship lead instructor. most programs designed to teach entrepreneurship follow a basic formula: spend a semester writing a business plan, learn the basics of marketing and finance, bury your head in spreadsheets, pull together a powerpoint, and then pitch your idea to a biannual business plan contest. and if you’re lucky enough to win some capital, see... read more about learn entrepreneurship from the beatles q&a with berkleeice director panos panay published on: jan 25, 2016 by becky pineo 4092 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post leverage your creativity to build a business with expert guidance from berkleeice director panos panay. this wednesday, january 27, ask your questions of panos panay, head of berklee’s institute for creative entrepreneurship (berkleeice). he is currently teaching creativity and entrepreneurship course on edx. ama means “ask me anything.” questions about entrepreneurship, creativity, the music industry, his research, and more, are all fair game. (current students,... read more about q&a with berkleeice director panos panay music, finance and history. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 15, 2016 by justine goulart 4479 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better prepare for a natural coastal disaster, identify important aspects of music just by listening to it or build a movie recommendation search engine using python. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. music, business, and apps. exciting courses starting soon! published on: nov 13, 2015 by justine goulart 4962 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you want to learn about cultures in south asia, design effective computer systems, understand your rights or lend your ear to 18th century musical performances, edx has the course that will help you gain knowledge and learn new skills. explore edx courses and start learning today! opera for everyone: making the next dartmouthx class published on: oct 08, 2015 by rachel lapal 4327 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this story originally ran in dartmouth now. introduction to italian opera starts on october 13. enroll today! “before this, my musical background ended with high school band, and now i’ve become an opera dork,” says instructional designer adam nemeroff. for the past year nemeroff has been collaborating with steve swayne, the jacob h. strauss 1922 professor of music; video producer dan maxell crosby; and music librarian... read more about opera for everyone: making the next dartmouthx class calling all musicians! learn music online with berkleex published on: sep 28, 2015 by kayley kravitz 6330 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post are you an aspiring musician, songwriter, or producer? if you’ve always wanted to learn more about music theory, business, or production, berkleex has the course that’s right for you. thanks to its edx partnership, berklee college of music can bring its time-tested teaching methods and renowned curriculum to an even larger global audience with moocs (massive open online courses). in these courses, you’ll learn from... read more about calling all musicians! learn music online with berkleex page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close