home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my keto diet experiment – days 5-6 september 9, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment days 5-6 of my 14 day keto diet experiment hi friends! i made it through my first keto weekend alive! i was definitely not perfect, actually far from it this past weekend. the best part though was i was still able to see some weight loss! let me explain… what i ate this weekend breakfast breakfasts both saturday and sunday consisted of hard boiled eggs as normal. nothing fun here. lunch this weekend was my husband’s birthday weekend so i got a bit anxious when i realized i’d have to find a place he’d like as well as one with keto friendly food options. i was looking at places around our house and found a place called gyu kaku japanese bbq restaurant. i looked at their website and found that it’s one of those types of places where you actually cook your food at your table. how fun! we chose to get a bunch of different types of meat and share them between my husband and i. it’s so cool how they bring out the raw meet and you just cook them right in the center of your table. the meal came with three meat options, a salad and white rice. unfortunately they wouldn’t let me swap out the white rice so it came with the meal. i went with a beef, a chicken and a sirloin steak. so good!!!! with the white rice at the table, i couldn’t resist. keto fail. oh well, hey other than the white rice ruining the meal, everything else was pretty keto friendly. this is much better than most of my typical saturday meals so i’m considering this a win. a delicious win at that. also, on sunday we went to a bar to watch the brown’s football game. unfortunately they lost but it was still a fun time. when it came time to eat, i ordered the wings. again, not perfect, but not my typical bar food i’d normally order which would be chicken fingers or nachos with extra carbs everywhere. side effects i didn’t notice any “keto flu” symptoms over the weekend at all. probably because i was much more relaxed on the diet. macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. my carbs were close to about 30g on saturday (thanks to the white rice) and close to about 25g on saturday (other than the wings, i was right on target!) ketone levels i tested my level of ketones on sunday morning and after only 3 full days on keto and it looks like i lost my state of ketosis from the cheating on my diet i did this weekend. my ketone levels went back down to a negative trace. i’m guessing my body will start to get a trace of ketones by monday again and by tuesday/wednesday i should be back into a moderate level of ketosis again. when you have a set back, get right back up and get back on track again. life is all about finding what works best for your lifestyle! to test this, i’m using strips called ketone script. you just dip a strip in your urine and after 40 seconds you can see your ketosis levels. so simple and the bottle comes with 150 strips!! this little bottle was less than $7 bucks and will last me forever. my current measurements / weight ewww the worst part has arrived. this is when i shamelessly tell you my weight and pretend like it never happened. starting weight: 158.8 lbs sunday’s weight: 154.3 lbs weight lost on keto diet: lost 4.5 lbs in just 5 days! some more weight dropped off despite my lax weekend choices and my body jumping out of a ketosis state. i also really sucked at drinking water on sunday so i’m assuming my weight will go up a bit or stay stable on monday morning due to that alone. overall thoughts of the keto diet experiment although i wasn’t perfect over the weekend, i’m pretty darn happy with how i handled my first keto weekend. i made mistakes but didn’t totally fall off the tracks. this comes to show that maybe i can be a little relaxed with my carb choices and still maintain my weight. that’s a great feeling. so far i’m loving the keto diet life. i also just ordered a few stellar keto foods from amazon and can’t wait for them to arrive so i can add some diversity into my meals. i ordered keto pancake mix, keto friendly syrup, my favorite protein powder and some keto brownies! i’m drooling thinking about having my favorite protein powder again to kick some of my sweets cravings. by the way, if you order the same protein powder, the chocolate flavor is amazing. other posts that may interest you: yesterday – day 4 of my 14 day keto diet experiment next day – day 7 of my 14 day keto diet experiment (coming soon!) eating clean grocery list 50 funny workout tanks keto friendly recipe – bacon egg and cheese muffin recipe filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in