home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my keto diet experiment – day 2 september 5, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment oh hello day 2! if you’re new here, i’m blogging my way through a two week experiment called the 14 day keto diet experiment where i’m attempting the keto diet and sticking to 25 net carbs or less each day. day 2 of my 14 day keto diet experiment day two consisted of a busy day at work, a lunchtime workout and some pretty similar eats as yesterday. what i ate breakfast same breakfast as yesterday. i woke up at 7:15am and had hard boiled eggs around 10am when i started to feel hungry. lunch my lunch consisted of a homemade salad including: spinach shredded chicken green olives shredded cheese ranch dressing i have a feeling i’ll be eating this same salad almost every day of my 14 day experiment. dinner for dinner i made a bowl of mexican chicken cheesy goodness. typically i make this dip and well…use it as a dip with chips and corn and beans mixed in. with keto, i had to remove the corn and beans and didn’t have anything keto friendly that i could use as my dippers so i just ate the dip as is with no chips. my mexican cheesy dip dinner just consisted of: shredded chicken sour cream shredded cheese salsa cholula hot sauce – i seriously put this on almost everything! the keto chicken dip wasn’t bad at all but i’m not sure i can do that every night. i am definitely on the hunt for more easy keto dinner recipes at this point. other i snacked on sunflower seeds after lunch. i love how i can have 1/4 cup of them for only 2 grams of carbs. yummm. i didn’t have any diet coke again today. whoah who am i? that’s two days in a row with no soda and only a cup of coffee in the morning and good old h20 throughout the rest of the day. i also had a string cheese later on after dinner which is only 1 g of net carbs each. perfect snack idea. i did get an upset stomach in the middle of the day. i’m not sure if that’s due to the new diet, something i ate, the lack of diet sodas? i have heard that many people who start the keto diet will get the “keto flu” so it could have been partially that. my stomach ache only lasted about an hour so it wasn’t really that big of a deal. the “keto flu” often occurs when starting on a keto diet as your body reacts to the recent changes to your diet and lack of carbs. this will often result in some to feel some of the symptoms below: nausea vomiting constipation diarrhea headache irritability weakness muscle cramps dizziness poor concentration stomach pain muscle soreness difficulty sleeping sugar cravings the keto flu won’t happen with everyone on the keto diet, so don’t be scared away from the diet because of the horror stories you’ve heard. i have heard that the effects of the keto flu could take up to a week until you start to feel better. workout i went to the gym for a simple 20 minute elliptical workout at lunch followed by a very brief lift session for chest, shoulders and triceps. the whole workout was only about 35 minutes. i felt great though. full of energy and motivation still on day two. it also probably helped that i slept like a rock last night! calories burned during workout: 275 calories macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. net carbs: 19g fiber: 6g fat: 63g protein: 90g whoah! i was way under my 25g limit for the day. i’m actually pretty darn shocked that i wasn’t acting like a total b*$!* on that low of carbs! i can see it catching up to me though so i’ll need to try to get closer to 25 tomorrow for my sanity, and yes my poor husband too! my current measurements / weight ewww the worst part has arrived. this is when i shamelessly tell you my weight and pretend like it never happened. starting weight: 158.8 lbs today’s weight: 157.6lbs weight lost on keto diet: 1.2lbs in 1 day! well look at that! i lost 1.2 lbs on my first day of the keto diet. i am not dumb though, i understand that after a long unhealthy weekend and close to no water consumption the weekend before, it’s easy to get back on track and lose some initial weight. i’m excited about this but definitely not patting myself on the back too hard since it’s only day 2 and that’s mostly just weekend/water weight. i probably won’t weigh myself every day because that’s just not healthy, but who knows, maybe i will. only time will tell. that’s the fun part of blogging a live experiment, you never know what will happen. i do have a minor unhealthy obsession with my scale though. it’s just so tempting to step on it and it doesn’t hurt that i have one of the coolest scales around. overall thoughts overall my second day went easier than i had imagined. the diet was pretty similar to yesterday’s and was pretty tasty. my energy level remained high throughout the day. bring on day three of my 14 day keto diet experiment!!! other posts that may interest you: yesterday – day one of my 14 day keto diet experiment next day – day three of my 14 day keto diet experiment (coming soon!) eating clean grocery list keto friendly recipe – cheesy and spicy sausage melt keto friendly recipe – baked kale chips filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in