home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog keto weight loss first week results september 10, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 7 of my 14 day keto diet experiment it’s now monday which means i’ve been on the keto diet for one full week now and have seen some great results in the first week! keto weight loss in the first week is totally possible and not too hard at all! what i ate breakfast i changed it up and had my absolute favorite protein shake for breakfast this morning. this shake is honestly something i look forward to drinking and am so glad i finally ordered more. i just mix the protein powder with ice cubes and water and it’s heaven in a glass! the chocolate makes it taste like a milkshake. i’m sure you could add milk to make it even tastier but i like mine with water for now. lunch same salad, different day. my homemade salad consisted of the items below. spinach shredded chicken green olives ranch dressing shredded cheese i also had some sunflower seeds as a snack after lunch for some crunch. i always need something crunchy in my day or i’m not a happy camper. anyone with me on that? dinner leftover blaze pizza – keto crust!!! yummmmmm. other snacks i found these awesome cheddar cheese crisps the other day and they are darn good! they are literally just cheese baked until crunchy and really take the craving away for chips or when i want a crunchy snack. they come in tons of different flavors and about a million different options of these on amazon. i dipped them in guacamole and it made a great snack! is it weird that i buy my groceries on amazon usually? gotta do what you gotta do when you and your husband share a car! side effects the only weird “keto flu” symptoms i felt today was an insane amount of bloating. i felt like as soon as i ate a bite of anything my stomach just ballooned out and felt super bloated to the point of feeling uncomfortable. it went away about an hour after eating but definitely not a great feeling. hey i guess the silver lining on this side effect is it definitely made me eat less and not hungry. workout no workout for me today. the best part of the keto diet is that you can still see great results without working out vigorously. if you concentrate on your diet, you will still see results. workouts are just a bonus in my mind! well, maybe i’m speaking too soon…we’ll see if my lack of workouts affects my results at the end of the two weeks. i guess i shouldn’t say that too early. macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. net carbs: 23g fiber: 10g fat: 54g protein: 97g ketone levels i tested my level of ketones this morning as always and after losing any trace of ketosis over the weekend, i believe i’m already almost seeing a trace again! it’s amazing how quickly your body can jump back into it and pick up ketone levels after one day. to test this, i’m using strips called ketone script. you just dip a strip in your urine and after 40 seconds you can see your ketosis levels. so simple and the bottle comes with 150 strips!! this little bottle was less than $7 bucks and will last me forever. my current measurements / weight ewww the worst part has arrived. this is when i shamelessly tell you my weight and pretend like it never happened. let’s look at my keto weight loss after just one week. starting weight: 158.8 lbs today’s weight: 154.8 lbs weight lost on keto diet: down 4 lbs in one week! as i expected from my lack of water drinking over the weekend, eating wings at the bar and some other cheats, my weight went up a tiny bit yesterday. i’m not worried about it at all. i also know it’s not healthy to weigh yourself every day so i’m going to look at it as the whole week’s progress and i’m super pumped to have lost 4 pounds in one week! overall thoughts of the keto diet experiment overall i’m beyond excited about my results so far with week one keto. other posts that may interest you: yesterday – days 5-6 of keto diet next day – days 8-10 of my 14 day keto diet experiment eating clean grocery list 50 funny workout tanks keto friendly recipe – bacon egg and cheese muffin recipe filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in