home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my keto diet experiment – day 11 september 15, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 11 of my 14 day keto diet experiment day 11! i can’t believe it’s already been 11 days since i started this little keto diet adventure and it’s getting a bit easier each day. today is a friday which always makes me nervous because i tend to make poor choices on weekends. i’m really going to do my best to be better than last weekend at least. what i ate breakfast i have been fasting in the morning lately and i’m totally okay with it. somehow i just pour myself a cup of coffee, get right to work and soon enough i realize it’s almost lunch time. intermittent fasting has a lot of benefits and i’m hoping that my 15-18 hours fasting windows are doing my body good. lunch my lunch was eggs and bacon again. such an easy lunch especially since i cooked a ton of bacon for the week ahead of time and just throw it in the microwave for 15 seconds to warm it up before eating. it’s also simply amazing that my eggs and bacon lunch was only 1g of net carbs! dinner dinner was another charketorie board made from a bunch of random snack foods. i love having all the different tastes and textures with these. although it may look like a snack plate, it is pretty filling! my charketorie board consisted of: pumpkin seeds in shell guacamole norwegian crispbread laughing cow cheese wedge green olives other i was craving something sweet and had my favorite keto brownie for a dessert. so good. side effects no side effects at all today! overall, i’ve had very minimal side effects other than some serious carb cravings once in a while. workout i hit the elliptical for a quick 20 minute session today. for some reason this cardio session was really hard today. i feel like my body was overheating almost as soon as i started but i kept with it and logged a little workout. calories burned during workout: 207 macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. im tracking my nutrition through the app called carb manager. so far it’s super easy to use and i love that it is calculates your net carbs for you without having to do the math. net carbs: 8g fiber: 15g fat: 61g protein: 85g i’ve noticed that my calories are super low when on this keto diet. it’s weird because i seem to feel fuller on this diet than any other low carb diet so far so i end up eating much less calories. i guess my body appreciates the fat more than any of the processed low calorie garbage i used to eat. ketone levels i finally hit a new level of ketones this morning! looks like i’ve jumped up to the “moderate (40) 4.0” level. woohoo. i’ve read that it’s not too healthy to go much higher than this level so i’m going to try to keep my ketosis between the small and moderate levels. to test this, i’m using strips called ketone script. you just dip a strip in your urine and after 40 seconds you can see your ketosis levels. so simple and the bottle comes with 150 strips!! this little bottle was less than $7 bucks and will last me forever. my current measurements / weight i didn’t take my weight this morning. it was one of those mornings i looked at my scale and just said nope, not today. overall thoughts of the keto diet experiment so far i’m enjoying the keto diet for the most part. i feel like my mind is a little more clear and my thoughts are even more focused. my energy levels have been fine and i’m liking the weight loss! let’s just hope i can stay devoted to my diet this weekend. weekends are always my biggest struggle with dieting. other posts that may interest you: yesterday – days 8-10 on keto diet next day – days 12-13 of the keto diet (coming soon!) eating clean grocery list 50 funny workout tanks best keto friendly alcohol choice – keto claws! filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in