skip to content my cat goma main menu about sleep gear contact privacy policy a beginner’s guide to drinking better green tea blog / by pat gonzalez green tea is gaining tremendous popularity worldwide. while black tea is more prevalent in europe and america, green tea is the fancy tea in the east. some of the reasons for the increased popularity of green tea are the marketing praises that it is effective in fighting cancer, losing weight, and smoothening the skin. however, … a beginner’s guide to drinking better green tea read more » top 8 japanese style bed futon / by pat gonzalez when it comes to your home, you want to increase elegance as well as comfort. one way to do this is by buying furniture from a variety of styles. you’ll get beds with designs based on ideas from different countries. note that, various designs will have their unique features and the way they keep your … top 8 japanese style bed read more » japanese cat names cat / by pat gonzalez majority of cat owners like putting a bit of creativity to their cat names. unfortunately, getting a good name takes creativity, patience and time. it is not as easy as just grabbing an idea from thin air. the cat name should be interesting, unique and in some way specific to your cat. one of the … japanese cat names read more » 10 best japanese futons futon / by pat gonzalez the japanese futons combine two fundamental aspects, rich culture, and comfort. the japanese people are known all over the world for their stranglehold on culture, and in this aspect too, they have not disappointed in the creation of the futon. the japanese futon is a simpler and more portable type of bed. its popularity among … 10 best japanese futons read more » a house designed for cats! ultimate kitteh house in japan! cat bed / by pat gonzalez in japan, the childbirth rate is dropping so much over this decade and this has been such a big social issue because there are not enough young people to support ever-growing number of elderly people in japan. i don’t know what causes this but i know a lot of people adore their pet’s like their … a house designed for cats! ultimate kitteh house in japan! read more » 5 recommendations for how to fall asleep fast sleep / by pat gonzalez some people fall asleep as soon as their head hit the pillow, while others may struggle all night long to catch a wink or two. whatever the case, because getting the proper amount of rest is a big part of maintaining good health, allowing the body to heal and a controlling factor in a wide … 5 recommendations for how to fall asleep fast read more » top 6 best cat bed cat bed / by pat gonzalez if you own a cat as a pet, there is a need to make sure that she feels the love in your home. pets play a big part in controlling our emotions especially when we’re down in spirit. as a result, you want to feel as close as possible with your cat. for these reasons, … top 6 best cat bed read more » search for: categories blog cat cat bed futon sleep recent posts a beginner’s guide to drinking better green tea top 8 japanese style bed japanese cat names 10 best japanese futons a house designed for cats! ultimate kitteh house in japan! copyright © 2020 my cat goma | powered by astra wordpress theme