home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my favorites i wanted to create a list of a few of my favorite things. these are things that i’ve had good experiences with and would recommend them to anyone! equipment: polar ft4 heart rate monitor watch – this is my sidekick in the gym. i don’t know what i’d do without it!!! i use it for almost every workout to track my heart rate and how many calories i burn. i 100% recommend getting one of these! nike+ i use nike plus accessories every time i run. it tracks my distance, pace & time. it syncs with the online site and you can see a graph of your run. you can also join in on nike challenges with friends and strangers throughout the world. it’s great motivation 🙂 nike shoes (nike air max are the best for the gym and casual wear) – all of my running shoes are nike brand that are compatible with nike+ (above). you can see on the bottom of the shoe that it has a nike plus sign which means that there’s a slot under the shoe sole where you can insert the nike sensor. so cute too! my favorite race: spartan race (use the coupon below!!!) supplements: 30 day cleansing and fat burning system 9 day deep cleansing and fat burning system dymatize nutrition elite whey protein powder, rich chocolate – this is the current protein powder i’m using. i really like the taste of the chocolate and it’s low carb with no artificial sugar! i also use jay robb’s whey protein – it’s the most natural protein i’ve ever purchased. it has no msg, no artificial sweetners, no acesulfame-k, no artificial flavors, no artifical colors, no aspartame and no sucralose! it has 25 g of protein, 110 calories and only 1g of protein!!! i’ve tried the vanilla, strawberry and pina colada and they all taste fantastic!!! optimum nutrition casein protein (chocolate peanut butter) – this is the protein that i have before bed. it’s casein protein, which means that it’s slow absorbing in your body so it can feed your muscles while you sleep! it also has bcaa’s, glutamine, low carb, low fat & no sugar. does it get much better than that?? i don’t think so. the flavor is also delicious! workout programs: insanity – the best at home workout that i’ve ever experienced. it comes with 10 dvds and each workout is about 45 minutes long. take the 60 day challenge and improve your life today! be prepared to sweat your booty off! jamie eason’s livefit program – this is a 12 week online trainer that is free! i had amazing results through this program and it taught me so much about fitness and healthy living. this program gave me the kickstart i needed. popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in