skip to content menu blog about contact my first youtube channel living life with lex uncategorized october 14, 2017november 27, 2017 1 minute i always dreamed of creating a youtube channel. my friends say that i have a great personality, but i’m too lazy to edit videos. editing videos takes hours to do. i would rather be sleeping than to stare at a computer screen all day long. but this semester the tables were turned. i now had no choice but to create a youtube channel. you probably want to ask why. well creating a youtube channel was a requirement for one of my classes. i bit the bullet and came to the realization that i can no longer be a lazy bum. i decided that i wanted to do a lifestyle channel that was all about me. here is a website you can look at that describes the different types of youtube channels blogging types. if you are eager just as i was about starting a channel, look at this website to start your channel how to start a successful youtube channel for your business. it was finally time to record my first video. i set the camera up in my living room and positioned myself in the center of the camera. i pressed the start button and i starred in the camera like a deer in headlights. have you ever had so much to say but can’t put it in words? well that was me. for a girl who talks so much on a daily basis, i instantly became shy as soon as the camera started rolling. i eventually got my thoughts together and created an amazing introduction video. i was so proud of the finish product and i hope that you like it too. if you like my video, go like, and subscribe. follow me on facebook at alexis martin. follow me on instagram at pinkbowsandstilettos share this: twitter facebook like this: like loading... published by living life with lex view all posts by living life with lex published october 14, 2017november 27, 2017 post navigation previous post balance next post tips for a successful friendship leave a reply cancel reply enter your comment here... fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: email (required) (address never made public) name (required) website you are commenting using your wordpress.com account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your google account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your twitter account. ( log out / change ) you are commenting using your facebook account. ( log out / change ) cancel connecting to %s notify me of new comments via email. notify me of new posts via email. wordpress.com. privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy %d bloggers like this: