u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition we're celebrating the glorious crowns of black women and how hair can help shape their identity. crown and glory 5 black women share personal stories of how they learned to love their hair paid for by gold series from pantene and royal oils by head & shoulders iconic black hairstyles: a family tree paid for by gold series from pantene and royal oils by head & shoulders black hair defined: a digital museum a huffpost project aiming to untangle conversations about our crowning glory. women open up about hair loss and the stigma they’ve faced women living with hair loss explain the stigmas they face, and how they overcame feelings of alienation. by jill di donato how the natural hair movement has failed black women there's a problem with representation, even among the natural hair community. by esther akutekha separate but not equal: racial bias in salon culture not all stylists are trained to do black hair, which has created segregation in salons. by jill di donato my black hair is a statement, whether i want it to be or not "i’d be lying if i said my hair doesn’t come with baggage that feels like it’s literally weighing me down." by tomi otekunrin these black women on tv faced scrutiny for their natural hair three on-air anchors recounted their experiences at news networks, which aren't always accepting of natural hair. by ivana fischer i’m a black model and this is what my hair goes through jade williams shares her challenges of having natural hair in the modeling industry. by rebecca rovenstine here’s how much women spend to maintain natural black hair ten women share exactly how much time and money they spend on their hair care annually. by bianca lambert the hair under there: muslim women dispel myths about hair and hijab so many stereotypes surround the religious reasons muslims keep their hair covered. eight women set the record straight. by imani bashir women share the absurd stereotypes they face for dyeing their hair in professional settings and in their personal lives, women with bold hair colors have to face all kinds of judgment. by vartika puranik celebrating black hair: crown and glory black people have been suspended from school and have been barred from employment due to their hair texture. by huffpost video black hair defined: readers share their videos, photos, and stories thank you for sharing your amazing stories with us. by huffpost editors 'bad hair' and the black male gaze storytellers need to ask themselves whether they are bolstering a stereotype or moving the conversation forward. by candice frederick diana ross, beyoncé, lil’ kim and the best black hair in music history these 15 hairstyles highlight the richness of black beauty and expression. by natelegé whaley 'hair love' director matthew a. cherry calls for normalizing black hair in oscars speech the filmmaker gave a shoutout to deandre arnold, a high school senior who notably refused to cut his locs in order to walk at his upcoming graduation. by kimberley richards pam grier, janet jackson, chris tucker and the best black hair in film here are 12 black hair highlights in cinema in all of their glory. by kimberley richards we talked to 3 natural hair bloggers about the early days of the movement what started as conversations on hair care forums evolved into a full-fledged online community over the last 20 years. by tatiana pile the 7 best worst black hairstyles on tv and film from shemar moore's cornrows to danai gurira's locs, here's where wigs and weaves made some of our faves look unrecognizable. by erin e. evans , zeba blay , taryn finley , philip lewis , ja'han jones, and izzy best ayanna pressley's twists, colin kaepernick's fro and the best black hair in politics here are some of the most iconic political figures and styles in black hair history. by taryn finley the williams sisters, dennis rodman and the best black hair in sports whether seen on-screen, courtside or from the nosebleed seats, these are some of the most recognizable black hairstyles in sports history. by ja'han jones deandre arnold gets invite to oscars from team behind 'hair love' matthew a. cherry, gabrielle union and dwyane wade surprised the black teen who refused to cut his locs to walk at graduation. by kimberley richards ayanna pressley reveals she has alopecia in poignant video "i want to be free of the secret and the shame," the massachusetts representative said, showing her bald head for the first time. by jamie feldman 25 stunning beauty moments from 2019 you need to see to judge judy's clip-in ponytail and beyond. by jamie feldman as a black woman, i'm tired of having to talk about my hair at work like gabrielle union, i change my hair often, and i don't owe anyone an explanation. by tamar montuma, guest writer when non-black minorities wear cornrows and locs, is it appropriation? the answer is simple: absolutely. by bianca lambert nappy hair is still good hair an h&m ad campaign started a heated discussion about what's considered presentable when it comes to black girls' hair. by jolie a. doggett michelle obama's natural curls make waves at essence fest "look at this queen rocking those curls!" wrote one person on social media about the former first lady's hairstyle. by jenna amatulli #dadsdohairtoo shares adorable scenes of dads doing their daughters' hair these dads take hairstyling seriously, and it shows. by julia brucculieri the challenges and triumphs of navigating natural hair in multiracial families here's how these women with eurocentric beauty features raised multiracial children. by julia brucculieri and jolie a. doggett black actors, models discuss lack of stylists who can do black hair “most black actresses come to a new set w/ their hair done (me) or bring their wigs & clip-ins w/them,” actress yvette nicole brown tweeted. by kimberley richards what’s it going to take for black hair to be seen as professional? whether we’re wearing weaves, waves or twas, black people should be judged by what’s inside our heads, not what’s on top. by jolie a. doggett see more before you go travel relationships parenting newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.