home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more my recommended books the best books i have ever read. leaders are readers. readers are leaders. browse below filter ∨ view all entrepreneurship influence leadership miscellany periscope personal development productivity resources my toolbox my products recommended books book yourself solid michael port this is one of the most inspiring and practical books i have read in a while. if you are in the personal services business, it is must-reading. the subtitle says it all: the fastest, easiest, and most reliable system for getting more clients than you can handle even if you hate marketing and selling. this book has 81 reviews on amazon—68 are five stars! buy now elon musk ashlee vance if you have a narrow definition of success, elon musk is one of the most successful entrepreneurs of all time. however, i see this biography as more of a cautionary tale. in his drive to win, musk sacrifices friends, business associates, and even his family to get what he wants. his life (so far) is a living example of what happens when you value projects more than people. buy now markdown david sparks and eddie smith one of the biggest problems writers face is distraction. it is especially frustrating when the very tools designed to help you become a distraction. that’s why i am now writing everything in a simple text editor, using a method called markdown. it enables me to remove the clutter of technology and just write. if you want to markdown, i recommend the macsparky markdown field guide by david sparks and eddie smith. i read the whole thing in one sitting. sleep smarter shawn stevenson the importance of sleep for our energy, focus, creativity, and overall health has been a major topic for me. when we skip sleep we downgrade our performance. but good sleep boosts our energy, mental function, everything. it’s like a secret weapon. sleep smarter reveals twenty-one strategies anyone can employ to unlock the power of high-quality sleep. i was surprised to see how many i already knew and used. i was also surprised to see how many i didn’t. mileage may vary, so stevenson encourages the reader to experiment and optimize your sleep for success. buy now the art of work jeff goins today, unlike any previous time in history, we have options about the work we do and the role it plays in our lives. but it is precisely here that so many of us get stuck. with so many choices, we struggle to figure out what we really want or where to start once we do. in the art of work, jeff goins provides a clear framework for discerning our calling, developing our mastery, and maximizing our impact. this is the plan we've been waiting for—from a guide we can trust. buy now the revenge of analog david sax my personal involvement in the digital revolution made me extremely interested when i encountered journalist david sax’s book, the revenge of analog. he follows the trend away from digital in several different areas including publishing, retail, the work environment, and education. sax makes explicit something many of us feel implicitly. real, tangible things matter. and that insight has tremendous implications for business today—not only in how we purchase and consume, but also in how we invest and grow. buy now deep work cal newport if we want to be productive, we have to stay focused on the kinds of projects that add real value to our businesses. but that’s harder than ever today. when i talk with busy leaders, they tell me the biggest productivity challenge they face is constant distraction. the problem is that even if those distractions qualify as work, they don’t add much value. cal newport, associate professor of computer science at georgetown university, labels most of these activities shallow work. think about bouncing in and out of email, checking social media, or tweaking lists. this is low concentration work just about anyone can do. deep work, on the other hand, requires intense focus and concentration. it’s demanding but adds a lot of value. buy now extreme ownership jocko willink and leif babin extreme ownership, written by two navy seals and seal trainers, is both compelling and practical. each chapter begins with a combat example, taken from the authors own experience in iraq. the authors distill the leadership principle they learned and then apply it to business. they then share how their business clients implemented in this in a civilian context. this is must reading for any leader who wants to create greater accountability in his or her team and drive greater results. buy now mindset carol s. dweck what is a mindset? according to world-renowned stanford psychologist carol dweck, it is an established set of attitudes or beliefs. we all know instinctively that attitude is important, but dweck argues that it is basically everything. she explains why it’s not just our abilities and talent that bring us success—but whether we approach them with a fixed or growth mindset. a fixed mindset is one in which you view your talents and abilities as … well, fixed. in other words, you are who you are, your intelligence and talents are what they are, and your fate is to go through life avoiding challenge and failure. a growth mindset, on the other hand, is one in which you see yourself as fluid, a work in progress. your fate is one of growth and opportunity. which mindset do you possess? this book challenged me, because i realized that in some areas i possess a fixed mindset and others a growth mindset. buy now the 4 disciplines of execution chris mcchesney, sean covey, and jim huling i’ve read dozens of books on planning. but after the planning is done, the execution begins. in my experience, this is ninety percent of success. yet, surprisingly, very few books have been written on this topic. in this book, the authors identify four disciplines of execution (4dx): focus on the wildly important goals (wigs), act on lead measures, keep a compelling scorecard, and create a cadence of accountability. not only do the authors explain each discipline in detail, they provide scores of real-world examples from companies big and small. they also explain exactly how to “install” the disciplines in your organization. based on consulting with hundreds and hundreds of clients, they provide practical solutions and best practices. my team and i used 4dx for most of 2016, and it was incredibly helpful in reaching our organizational goals. buy now the one thing gary keller and jay papasan ever feel overwhelmed by having too much to do? in the one thing: the surprisingly simple truth behind extraordinary results, gary keller chairman of the board and cofounder of keller williams realty, inc., and new york times bestselling author, starts off by dispelling five lies people believe about productivity. he then explains how to focus on the one that that if done, makes everything else easier or unnecessary. buy now the ultimate sales machine chet holmes this is by far the best business book i have ever read. i know that is a big claim, but i found the book enormously compelling. it is full of real-world examples, brilliant strategies, and proven tactics. and make no mistake: this book is not just about sales. it is about life and an approach to running a business that is different than anything i have ever read. i can see why tony robbins partnered with him. (sadly, chet died of leukemia in 2012.) buy now do the work steven pressfield if you are a writer—or a creative of any time—this book is must reading. it is not that different from the war of art, but i found it more focused and helpful. if you are having a hard time getting started on that really important project or if you are stuck, this book is for you! buy now get off your “but” sean stephenson this is one of the best books i have read this year. it is written by a man who overcame enormous physical disabilities to succeed. he really does take all the excuses away. better yet, he offers practical advice that can literally change your life. this is one of those rare books that i was sad to see come to an end. it is the perfect book to read in preparation for the year ahead. buy now paid to speak various nsa members this is one of the few books i have read on public speaking that covers more than just communication. the book also deals with the business side of public speaking. i found it very helpful as i shifted from amateur speaker to professional. buy now the 4-hour workweek timothy ferriss this is one of the best books on productivity and lifestyle design available. i have read it through at least three times. i got something new each time. i especially enjoyed ferriss’s framework: eliminate first. what you can’t eliminate, automate. what you can’t automate, delegate. what you can’t delegate, do yourself. this is the easiest way to free up margin for yourself. ferriss is also a very entertaining writer. buy now the power of a positive no william ury if you are ever going to create the margin you need to focus on the things that matter most, you have to learn to say no. this is difficult, especially for recovering people pleasers like me. fortunately, dr. ury make it easier by reframing the whole exercise as something positive—both for you and for the person making the request. if you struggle with saying no, this book will provide the motivation you need to say no more often. buy now wheat belly: lose the wheat, lose the weight, and find your path back to health william davis, m.d. this is one of the most revolutionary health books i have read in some time. the author’s basic premise is that wheat and wheat products are responsible for many of the health maladies that plague modern americans, including obesity, diabetes, arthritis, dementia, and more. when i first heard about the book, i dismissed it because i have always been taught that wheat, especially in its whole-grain form, is healthy for you. he presents a compelling case that the wheat we eat today bears little resemblance to the wheat of one hundred years ago. it has been so genetically-modified and hybridized that our bodies can’t process it. the result is chronic inflammation, leading to everything from poor health to a general lack of energy. the book is pretty technical. the author is a medical doctor, and he is determined to prove his case with hard data and lots of science. fortunately, he weaves in lots of case studies about his patients and how a gluten-free diet transformed their health. buy now sorry, no books match the filter you selected. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed my recommended books