home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my two week keto diet experiment – days 12 -13 september 16, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment days 12-13 of my two week keto diet experiment well guys, i do have to say i pretty much dominated this past weekend! i stayed on track for the most part and even created some tasty recipes! yes i had a few of my favorite alcoholic drinks (keto claws) but i’m not ashamed one bit! my two week keto diet is going better than i anticipated. what i ate breakfast/lunch saturday and sunday i held my fast until about 11am. at that time i made my us some of my favorite keto pancakes (and had enough for leftovers on sunday). dinner both saturday and sunday i whipped up new recipes and i have to admit they were both damn good! saturday night was pork carnitas eggs benedict. sunday night i made some keto friendly chicken parmesan with green beans. other i satisfied my sweets cravings twice this weekend with my favorite keto brownie and it always tastes oh so good! i need to order more asap. side effects no side effects at all over the weekend! overall, i feel great and full of energy! workout zero zilch nada. saturday and sunday consisted of eating and watching football all weekend. go bears!! macros / nutrition as mentioned above, my goal is to stick to 25 net calories or less each day. when i say “net carbs” that means grams of carbs minus grams of fiber = net carbs. my macros ended up looking like this at the end of the day. i’m not trying to hit any fat/fiber/protein goals, just strictly keeping an eye on my net carbs being under 25 at this point. i’m tracking my nutrition through the app called carb manager. so far it’s super easy to use and i love that it is calculates your net carbs for you without having to do the math. on saturday somehow i stuck to only 5g of net carbs. what?! i also made the huge accident of eating so few carbs and not drinking a lot of water. when you combine that with drinking some keto claws, you’re asking for a rough morning. i woke up sunday and felt like complete death and didn’t even drink much. all i wanted was a carb loaded bacon egg and cheese biscuit from mcdonald’s. luckily i just chugged a crap load of water and slowly came back to life. lesson learned, drink a lot of water when on the keto diet. sunday my carbs ended up at only 8 net carbs throughout the day. it’s amazing what happens when you eat super friendly keto foods that are barely any net carbs! ketone levels my ketone levels stayed around the “moderate (40) 4.0” level. maybe a tiny bit lighter than yesterday but that’s an excellent place to stay. if i can maintain this level, i feel like i’ll see more results and feel great too. to test this, i’m using strips called ketone script. you just dip a strip in your urine and after 40 seconds you can see your ketosis levels. so simple and the bottle comes with 150 strips!! this little bottle was less than $7 bucks and will last me forever. my current measurements / weight i didn’t take my weight this morning. it was one of those mornings i looked at my scale and just said nope, not today. starting weight: 158.8 lbs today’s weight: 153.7 lbs weight lost on keto diet: down 5.1 pounds in 13 days! woohoo! i love this! i was able to stay on track over the weekend but still let loose a bit with some keto claws! now that is balance! overall thoughts of my two week keto diet expriement i’m loving it! there are some times at dinner when i’m hungry and not sure what to eat but i think as time goes on, i will have a bunch of different recipes in my pocket to not just eat eggs and bacon all day every day. all i know is, as long as i can have those keto pancakes and syrup in my life, i’m a happy girl!!! one more day until my two week keto diet ends. i can’t believe it’s almost been two weeks. other posts that may interest you: yesterday – day 11 keto diet next day – two week keto diet weight loss results (coming soon!) eating clean grocery list 50 funny workout tanks best keto friendly alcohol choice – keto claws! filed under: keto diet, nutrition, personal tagged with: diet, keto diet, my weight loss experiement you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in