home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close myanmar / burma asia myanmar – 2 week travel itinerary defying all expectations, ruchi and i didn’t feel ready to leave myanmar. sitting in the departure lounge looking like a pair of jilted brides at read more » august 16, 2018 myanmar / burma yangon to golden rock (kyaiktiyo pagoda) by bus in 1 day no sleep equals one moody woman. one moody woman equals no sleep. i wanted to cancel my plans to visit the golden rock, one of read more » september 13, 2016 asia a bumpy ride: e-biking in bagan! the handle bar jolts from left to right and from right to left, she skims an oncoming vehicle, and then another. she swerves in the read more » may 7, 2016 burma a photographic look at burmese people and traditions burma has made its way into my heart, just as norway has done and poland before that. these places make me feel fuller, deeper, and read more » may 25, 2015 asia leg-rowing fishermen – the icons of inle lake, myanmar he stands on one leg like a flamingo. he wraps his other around the oar and begins rotating his leg to move the boat along. read more » april 18, 2015 asia goodbye yangon, hello bagan we arrived in bagan at the slightly earlier than expected time of 4.45am, after an overnight bus journey from yangon. if i said i slept read more » january 31, 2015 asia a prelude to yangon, myanmar horns beep non-stop. it’s the music of congestion and roads without rules. a barrage of open-top trucks chug past overflowing with people, young and old, read more » january 19, 2015 useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send