nameboy domain name generator resources how to start a blog how to make a website the best domain name generator nameboy is the oldest and most popular domain name generator in the world. search for new company name ideas and get the domain name instantly (before someone else does). submit check domain availability with bluehost search results for "..." choose a name below and follow the steps to create your website. showing: all generator extensions show more results » what to do next? create a website looking to start a website? follow our step by step guide to create a website (no technical skills needed). get a free domain name want to get a free .com or .net domain name? claim this limited time special offer. start a blog want to start a blog and make money? follow our step by step guide on how to start a blog. how to choose the best domain name (expert tips) picking the right domain name for your business idea is crucial for success. often new business owners rush to choose a domain name for their business only to realize that they have made the wrong choice. if you choose the wrong domain name, then it can be a hassle to switch later on without hurting your brand and search rankings. while our domain name generator will help you find a lot of good domain name ideas, it can also be quite overwhelming for new users to see so many choices. that’s why we have created a 7 step framework to help you easily choose the best domain name. 1. only choose .com domains .com is the most well-known domain name extension in the world. this is why most smart phone keyboards have a built-in .com button. while it can be tempting to choose one of the newer extensions like .photography, .blog, .club, etc, we recommend all business owners to always choose a .com domain name. the biggest reason is that your users are conditioned to type .com at the end of every website. for example, if your website was sally.photography, and your users typed in sallyphotography.com, then they might end up on an error page or worst your competitor’s website. it’s wise to avoid the risk and choose a .com domain name. 2. use keywords in your domain keywords play a huge role in search engine rankings. if you want your website to rank higher in google, then having a keyword in the domain name can be very helpful. this is why nameboy’s domain name generator allows you to add multiple keywords to see the best combination. you can use these creative keyword combination with other words to make your domain name stand out while also boosting your chances to rank higher in search results. 3. make it easy to pronounce and spell one of the biggest reason for lost traffic is typos. when choosing a domain name, it’s extremely important that your website name is easy to spell and pronounce. this way if you’re ever in a public place without a business card, then you can easily share your website and know that the other person will be able to find it. 4. keep it short following the same reasoning as #3, it’s generally a good idea to keep your domain name short (ideally under 15 characters). longer domain names are hard to remember, and they are also prone for more typos. 5. make it brandable with millions of websites on the internet, you want to make sure that your domain name is unique and brandable, so that it stands out in your readers’ mind. you should look at other business websites in your industry to see what kind of names they’re using. this will give you an idea of what’s acceptable, and it will also prevent you from accidentally using a trademark domain name. brandable domains are short, catchy, and easy to pronounce. think nameboy.com or wpbeginner.com. 6. avoid hyphens at all cost while it can be tempting to choose a domain name with a hyphen just because it has your preferred keywords, we always recommend avoiding hyphens at all cost. hyphens can be a sign of spam domains, and you don’t want your business to be associated with that. hyphenated domains are also prone to more typos. often your users will forget to add the hyphen and end up on your competitor’s website. 7. avoid double letters another thing we advise our clients is to avoid domain names with doubled letters because it increases your chances of losing traffic to typos. for example a domain like businesssetup.com will be more prone to typos and result in lost traffic. most domain name generators or business name generators are not smart enough to avoid doubled letters, so it’s a very important thing that you must keep in mind when choosing the domain name for your website. we hope that you found these tips useful. don’t forget to use these best practices when using the nameboy’s domain name generator to choose the right domain name for your business. good luck with your business 🙂 how does our domain name generator work? nameboy is the original domain name generator started in 1999. our domain name generator analyzes the keywords you entered in our domain name search field and suggest the best domain name ideas for your business. our users often use nameboy as a business name generator, website name generator, company name generator, url generator, and sometimes just for simple domain name search. we believe that we’ve built the best domain name generator in the market. go ahead and give it a try! about nameboy nameboy is the oldest and best domain name generator on the internet. since 1999, our goal at nameboy is to help people find creative business name ideas for their company or product, so they can turn their ideas into reality. site links -- guides -- how to choose the best blogging platform how to choose the best wordpress hosting? how to choose the best website builder how to start a podcast -- best of collections -- best wordpress plugins best wordpress backup plugins best online form builders best email marketing services best wordpress page builders -- generators -- blog name generator domain name generator business name generator company about us contact us privacy policy ftc disclosure sitemap our sites - more from awesome motive: optinmonster wpforms monsterinsights wpbeginner syed balkhi weeblytowp copyright © 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. managed by awesome motive inc. editorial note: opinions expressed here are author’s alone, not those of any hosting company, plugin provider, theme company, or wordpress foundation, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. disclaimer: we make great efforts to maintain reliable data on all offers presented. however, this data is provided without warranty. users should always check the provider’s official website for current terms and details. the product offers that appear on the website are from respective hosting companies, plugin companies, and theme companies from which nameboy receives compensation. this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). this site does not include all wordpress products or all available product offers.