menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies natalia vela writer on the storm. latest posts here are the things i’m not brave enough to say i don’t give in, but three nights ago i said your name over and over until i could breathe. by natalia vela, 19 mar 2020 fuck it, i loved him 40,000 feet above the ground and, still, i was engulfed by him. by natalia vela, 19 feb 2020 30 things i hope you learn to let go by 30 i hope you let go of trying to control everything. by natalia vela, 25 nov 2019 me, him, and a few other things i’m admittedly afraid of there’s another world where i don’t feel like this. where my heart fits into my chest right and i’m not terrified of anything that makes it feel alive. but i live in a world where i stopped being able to tell the difference between heartbeat and heartache. by natalia vela, 11 nov 2019 an abridged list of things i’m keeping from you i wish i knew what you were saying. i wish i knew what you were thinking. by natalia vela, 22 oct 2019 here we are am i dreaming? by natalia vela, 5 oct 2019 all of the things which i do not miss cigarette smoke. that nicotine-stained thumb. your second-hand mouth. by natalia vela, 5 oct 2019 it was never love, we were just fucked up on each other it may have been his hands tying the knot behind my head, but i put on the blindfold myself. by natalia vela, 2 oct 2019 in which my rapist asks me out the answer is the same. by natalia vela, 27 sep 2019 the things we do in the dark i can’t figure out which hurt more: loving you or missing you. by natalia vela, 1 jul 2019 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 ... 14 next » about natalia houstonian poet and bruja. fresh outta fucks forever. still checking books out from your local library. when not busy writing, busy fighting and cooking up spells to slay the patriarchy. on the web collective world instagram facebook twitter quote catalog contact natalia name email subject message send get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.