nationwide merchant solutions | digital marketing, web design & seo think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 nationwide merchant solutions marketing nationwide merchant solutions signs up more clients for credit card processing with a state-wide seo campaign and a new website design. nationwide merchant solutions provides credit/debit card processing services, point of sale equipment and working capital to merchants across the united states. web design seo the challenge nationwide wanted to grow site traffic and sales in the ultra-competitive credit card processing niche. in an industry focused on sales by cold-calling, nationwide needed an aggressive seo strategy to further their business. additionally, after the traffic started coming in, it became clear that a complete site re-design was needed in order to display the professionalism and trust that are essential in this industry. the plan create unique content on the site to increase search engine exposure. develop a unique seo strategy to try to capture multiple positions for the main keywords through industry profiles on sites like bbb & manta. pursue an aggressive link building strategy to increase search traffic. create a professional website to establish credibility and trust. the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in organic search traffic 0% increase in referral traffic 0% increase in page views 0% increase in leads nationwide merchant solutions has secure, scalable, & top rated credit card processing solutions. nationwide merchant solutions before & after responsive website redesign showcase nationwide merchant solutions brand new website, as seen on mobile devices. nationwide merchant solutions state of the art website. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha name this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies nationwide merchant solutions recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect