skip to content sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the tuesday news books, arts & manners all articles authors podcasts photos games videos podcasts the editors mad dogs & englishmen give me liberty the mccarthy report victor davis hanson for life political beats constitutionally speaking the great books the bookmonger radio free california ordered liberty photos news & events cartoons culture military science & technology sports world magazine latest issue archive subscribe give nr as a gift customer care nrplus topics politics & policy elections culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business about faq about us the masthead emails & alerts wine club careers advertise donate contact us privacy policy terms of service nr institute search send a tip instagram primary menu national review large national review logo small national review logo donate the corner ... subscribe search national review search text mar. 27, 2020 subscribe ... breaking trump signs $2.2 trillion economic-aid package into law politics & policy goodbye, green new deal by kevin d. williamson after a couple of weeks of great economic sacrifice, it's already proving hard for americans to take. no one will sign up for a lifetime of it. science & tech no, a covid scientist didn’t walk back his prediction by robert verbruggen from the beginning he has said that lockdowns work. nr plus world don’t let the chinese communist party use the coronavirus to its advantage by michael sobolik the ccp is trying to escape blame. nr wire view more 1h trump signs $2.2 trillion economic-aid package into law 2h trump implements defense production act, says ‘gm was wasting time’ world china is pushing a ‘zero’ myth on covid-19 by jianli yang & aaron rhodes the regime’s censorship and distortions are a threat to global public health as well as a violation of human rights. nr plus u.s. the timeline of how bill de blasio prepared new york city for the coronavirus by jim geraghty follow along as the mayor and his experts gradually move from dismissing the threat to shutting the city down. elections will biden live up to his own principles? by david harsanyi two years ago biden argued that society had an obligation to presume that women who come forward with allegations of sexual assault should be believed. world the limits of optimism by madeleine kearns in the face of uncertainty, politicians would do better to court hope. there's a difference. nr plus health care america doesn’t need one strategy for coronavirus. it needs many. by jonathan ellen we should separate our thinking about hotspots from our thinking about non-hotspots and adapt our responses accordingly. the corner lives vs. dollars by ramesh ponnuru 6:06 pm finally, that ‘libertarian moment’ by kevin d. williamson 5:31 pm the house democrats’ coronavirus extortion gambit backfires by dan mclaughlin 3:39 pm nerds have been waiting a lifetime to write this headline by kevin d. williamson 3:06 pm coronavirus health care more thoughts on computing the covid-19 fatality rate by andrew c. mccarthy it’s based on decisions about whom to include or exclude, which are often conjecture. nr plus u.s. the timeline of how bill de blasio prepared new york city for the coronavirus by jim geraghty follow along as the mayor and his experts gradually move from dismissing the threat to shutting the city down. politics & policy house passes $2.2 trillion coronavirus relief package by mairead mcardle the massive economic stimulus package is intended to buoy the flagging economy. media media the political media are failing america by david harsanyi their ineptitude, bias, childishness, and outright stupidity have become a genuine danger to the health of the republic. media the new york times editorial board peddles planned parenthood talking points by alexandra desanctis abortion providers and activist groups are using the coronavirus crisis to promote abortion. the media are chiming in too. world we need the skeptics by michael brendan dougherty i disagree with them. but they at least remind me that we have free men among us. election 2020 elections the cipher as presidential candidate by rich lowry if the party had decided to order up a generic representative, it couldn’t have done any better than joe biden. politics & policy trump achieves net positive approval rating for first time in poll by zachary evans trump's overall approval rating stands at 48 percent to a 46 percent disapproval, according to the poll. elections could a ‘draft cuomo’ movement be in the democrats’ future? by john fund it’s not out of the question if biden keeps looking out of touch and irrelevant. markets & economy economy & business congress did a poor job by jim geraghty they didn't rise to the challenge. economy & business health versus wealth is a false choice by andrew stuttaford it’s distinctly more complicated than that. ‘more cowbell!’ by kevin d. williamson globalization is working, and markets are working. capitalism works when you work it. the latest world europe wasn’t ready for coronavirus — it may never fully recover by itxu díaz 5:44 pm coronavirus has already weakened the idea of europe acting in concert to confront challenges. law & the courts should states punish the insane? by john hirschauer 5:28 pm a new supreme court ruling allows states to abolish the insanity defense, but justice demands treating, not punishing, mentally ill offenders. economy & business trump signs $2.2 trillion economic-aid package into law by zachary evans 5:18 pm president trump on friday signed a $2.2 trillion package meant to offset the effects of the wuhan coronavirus pandemic into law. economy & business the fed’s unprecedented crisis response by daniel tenreiro 4:52 pm for the first time, the federal reserve will wade into corporate-loan markets. economy & business trump implements defense production act, says ‘gm was wasting time’ by zachary evans 4:45 pm president trump on friday invoked the defense production act to order ventilators from general motors needed to treat coronavirus patients, after initially declining to do so. load more stories from this section load more in this issue nr plus books george washington’s twilight years by michael f. bishop a review of washington’s end: the final years and forgotten struggle, by jonathan horn. nr plus city desk bureaucracy’s gentle yoke by richard brookhiser times have changed. nr plus books apartment: a novel of class-based anxieties by stefan beck a review of apartment, by teddy wayne. introducing the tuesday get kevin d. williamson’s exclusive newsletter in your e-mail inbox each tuesday. photos 2 view slide show cartoons cartoons of the day: march 27, 2020 114 view slide show news & events deserted cityscapes 58 view slide show news & events social distancing more in photos podcasts the mccarthy report episode 76: confusion on the court for life episode 10: abortion in the time of coronavirus the editors episode 200: a grim prognosis more in podcasts featured writers john fund could a ‘draft cuomo’ movement be in the democrats’ future? march 24, 2020 | 9:18 pm jim geraghty the timeline of how bill de blasio prepared new york city for the coronavirus march 27, 2020 | 10:36 am kevin d. williamson finally, that ‘libertarian moment’ march 27, 2020 | 5:31 pm ramesh ponnuru lives vs. dollars march 27, 2020 | 6:06 pm around the web not just china: u.s. reliance on foreign medical supplies is staggering the american conservative social distancing is about to get a whole lot harder the week indicting the caracas mob wall street journal how isaac newton turned isolation from the great plague into a “year of wonders” foundation for economic education videos biden calls trump’s easter goal ‘catastrophic’ relaxing our guard too soon could hurt american lives. biden calls trump’s easter goal ‘catastrophic’ relaxing our guard too soon could hurt american lives. u.s. coronavirus deaths hit 1,000 pompeo unable to end afghan political feud u.s. coronavirus deaths hit 1,000 pompeo unable to end afghan political feud the magazine volume lxxii № 6 on the cover pathogen of destruction the coronavirus and us. read now read now facebook twitter ... © 2020 national review donate subscribe sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the g-file news books, arts & manners all articles all authors podcasts photos games videos topics politics & policy culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business elections magazine latest issue archive subscribe gve nr as a gift customer care nrplus about frequently asked questions about us the masthead contact us careers privacy policy terms of service nr institute more advertise donate search e-mails & alerts send a tip newsletters morning jolt (m-f) nr daily (m-sa) breaking news (m-su) email © 2020 national review close ad close national review navigation loading...