close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » blog » natural remedies natural remedies articles & tutorials these natural remedies are effective at speeding recovery from illness and injury. they are a combination of herbs, supplements and lifestyle adjustments to help your family bounce back from ill health. diy herbal cough syrup recipe my top 5 practical & easy natural remedies (i couldn’t live without) 8 benefits of stinging nettle (& how to use it in tea, tonics, haircare & more) vinegar of the four thieves health tonic recipe soothing colloidal oatmeal bath recipe for itchy, dry skin spicy fire cider recipe – natural cold remedy lavender salt sock (natural ear infection remedy) 7 natural remedies for eczema are essential oils safe for pets? benefits and uses of horsetail (shavegrass) how to detox your armpits how to make elderberry syrup (potent cold + flu remedy) home remedies to help stop a urinary tract infection benefits and uses of oregano herb alternatives to braces (& what i’m doing with my kids) powerful benefits and uses of garlic (& why i take it daily) soothing diy sunburn spray recipe with cbd and lavender science-backed bee pollen benefits for allergies, inflammation & more health benefits of basil leaf + 13 ways to use it at home natural remedies for menopause: how to reduce hot flashes & other menopause symptoms natural sunburn remedies for healthy skin natural remedies to calm asthma symptoms 7 effective natural remedies for warts do homeopathic remedies work? what the science says (+ my take) show more posts go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 6 go to next page » footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap