petite anglaise february 6, 2008 jitters filed under: book stuff, navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 10:15 am i’m sure it’s normal, a matter of days before a piece of me goes on sale in bookshops, to fall prey to the jitters. so far, those who have read “petite” all said complimentary things. admittedly these were people who were supposed to be on my side – agent, publisher, friends, family – but i’m also beginning to hear feedback from interviewers/reviewers and people in the book trade who’ve seen an advance copy. it’s surreal when they say they liked it. i’m never sure how to respond. i suppose i should say ‘thank you?’, although my first impulse is to say ‘really? are you sure? why?’ i think i’ve had to read and re-read my own manuscript so many times in the course of the publication process that objectivity went out of the window long ago. however my jitters have nothing to do with joe public reading “petite”. my nervousness is centred on what one particular person will think of it. of my work. of me. you probably think it’s odd that the boy, of all people, hasn’t yet read it yet. to be fair, it’s not out of indifference on his part, it’s due to a combination of me not wanting him to read it until it was fully finished/copy edited/proofed/corrected and him saying he preferred to wait until it was printed in its final form, with its cover on. i suspect both of us were putting off the inevitable. but now that i have a whole carton full of hardbacks sitting on the floor at the foot of my bed the inevitable can be put off no more. ‘nice paper,’ he said when he got home from work and i handed him a copy. ‘and look, they’ve embossed the writing, it stands out more than it did on that proof copy you showed me before…’ he paused, looked at me intently. ‘so, i’m allowed to read it now, am i? finally?’ ‘yes,’ i said, chewing my lip. ‘but, um, not when i’m actually here. i mean, i couldn’t stand it if you were reading it next to me, giving me sidelong glances. it would be excruciating.’ since we’ve spent every evening together since, and he works all day, he hasn’t had chance to open it yet. (the métro to work is exclusively reserved for the ritual of libération.) why am i so nervous? well, frankly i doubt the book i’ve written is really his cup of tea. his favourite authors are people like álvaro mutis and borges, at opposite end of the lowbrow/highbrow spectrum. then there is the language barrier, which means he will understand the gist of the story, but he’s the first to admit that he’s unlikely to fully appreciate my style or voice, and nuances of meaning will be lost on him. top of my worry list, however, is the ‘too much information’ factor. which is why one of my favourite masochistic pastimes, at the moment, is imagining the boy’s internal dialogue as he turns the pages. ‘ah yes, she can be annoying like that,’ he thinks to himself, a lightbulb flickering on above his head. ‘so it’s not just with me, then…’ or ‘oh, she used that line on me once!’ or ‘ew, that bit was corny…’ i decided to ask him to read it when i’m a safe distance away, in england in early march, busy with promotion and too distracted to think about him reading my book. this means, of course, that i’m deferring the inevitable for another whole month. and when the deed is done, if he doesn’t like it, what then? would i prefer him to be honest, and explain why? or should he lie through his teeth if he wants to continue sharing my bed? comments (69) september 18, 2007 spiral filed under: navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:09 am i am surrounded by a dense, dark, oppressive fog. i can’t see it, touch it, smell it, but it is real to me. i sensed it on the periphery of my day, quietly, ominously gathering force. i pretended it wasn’t there, at first. i blogged about my daughter, made some notes for an interview, bounced flippant messages back and forth with friends on gmail and msn. i suspect there was a vague undercurrent of hysteria, of volatility in some of those exchanges, but mostly i was successful at cloaking it in humour, denying its existence, even to myself. until tadpole was safely in bed, and the evening yawned emptily ahead. i tried to read a book, but the words wouldn’t stick. the walls crowded closer. words like “sad” or “depressed” are hopelessly unequal to the task of describing something so visceral. there is a heavy stone in my chest, a shallow shortness of breath, a desperate fluttering in my stomach. my body shifts gears and slips beyond my control. it’s poised for fight or flight, there’s a pent up energy it can’t contain. the overriding – utterly irrational – impulse is to release the pressure by lashing out at someone i love in some petty, spiteful, childish way. i take a bath and wash my hair. i tidy the kitchen, manically. i pour another glass of wine. finally, just before i turn off the lights, i reach for my phone and type a text message worthy of a hormonal teenager. the results are woefully predictable. i provoke anger and incomprehension. there is no earthly reason for me to succumb to the undertow, right now, when everything in my life is about as perfect as i can conceive of. i have everything i could possibly wish for. this boy. the book thing. financial security. nine days out of ten i’m happier than i can remember ever feeling. why is it then that i seem to be hardwired to try, periodically, to destroy everything i touch? when the rational me, the real me, i hope, knows full well that i’m being unreasonable in the extreme. and idiotic. and wrong. hunched under the bedclothes, arms around my knees, i press my dry eyes tightly closed, willing it to stop; hating myself with a fierce intensity. feeling stupid, pathetic and small. terrified that one day i will go a step too far and exhaust the boy’s reserves of patience. that he will see even this explanation as an attempt to abdicate responsibility. when the feelings refuse to recede, i try to drive them away with words. and this helps. not a lot. but a little. comments (109) june 25, 2007 épanouie filed under: navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:48 am for the past nine months i have been living in a shadow. impossible to shake off, a suffocating cloud of self-doubt hovered above my head, darkening my every thought, my every gesture. impossible to conceive of meeting a man (or boy) while i felt so brittle, so unsure of myself. impossible to really appreciate this new life of freedom from the constraints of the métro boulot dodo routine i’d been locked into for so long. writing “petite anglaise” has often been a lonely, fraught process – and this despite all the reassuring noises from my agent and editor whenever i sent them a few chapters to read. because the hardest task of all was proving to myself that i could actually pull this off and produce a manuscript of which i could be unreservedly proud; a manuscript which would do petite anglaise justice. and so i worked, fretted, agonised and procrastinated. writing – which seemed so natural when it was for the blog – had now become work. why was it suddenly so much less enjoyable, i wondered? why was my favourite pastime suddenly a cause for teeth grinding? when i wasn’t working, i fought to suppress the guilt that i should be. even though, arguably, when i wasn’t actually writing i could have made use of my free time by going to the cinema, say, or taking in an exhibition, i found i simply couldn’t. instead i sat hunched over my macbook, a gnarly knot of tension between my shoulder blades, surfing the internet, but taking very little pleasure in doing so. i alternately overate or fasted. my moods, which have always had a tendency to swing without due warning from one extreme to another, now spiralled even further out of control. i had panic attacks: heart racing, breath snagging in my throat. on more than one occasion, meeting mr frog for lunch, i noticed my hands trembling when i picked up my fork. whenever i snapped at tadpole, voice shrill, patience on a short fuse, i detested myself. seeking some sort of temporary respite from my anxieties, and from spending so much time trapped inside my own head, rewriting my past, i drank to excess whenever i went out. regretted it bitterly the morning after, when temporary euphoria gave way to blinding headaches. then, one fine day in may, i gave birth to the second draft. and even before the feedback began to filter back to me, the cloud began to dissipate. because while, undoubtedly, there is still work to be done, i’ve proved to myself – to my inner editor – that i am equal to the task. thirty-four chapters, almost 100,000 words: a satisfyingly thick wad of paper, the sight of which gives me a thrill whenever my glance falls upon it. the gestation period almost over, i began to relax. my posture changed, the tension left my limbs, my skin cleared. i began to enjoy my free time with a clear conscience; to live in the moment. i still party too hard, on occasion, but that brittle edge of desperation, of hysteria has gone. i found myself flirting again, re-discovering a side of my personality which has been in hibernation for the longest time. it’s like meeting an old friend. and so i am hell-bent on enjoying this summer, revelling in my new-found peace, savouring the lovely, melty moments i have been sharing, of late, with the boy who lives a few doors down the street, but who i could so easily never have met. life is good. comments (108) february 21, 2007 one filed under: navel gazing, single life — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:57 pm as i sat on the métro on the way to see some girlfriends yesterday, a bag containing chablis, nutella and maple syrup wedged between my feet, i couldn’t help thinking back to happier versions of mardi gras, and in particular the 2006 edition, in honour of which i threw a pancake party and invited a few friends* from work to my old apartment. it was the first and last time many of them got to meet the man i referred to on this blog as lover (a pseudonym to which a few readers strongly objected, but i felt then, as i do now, that given just how much time we spent horizontal, the name fit very snugly indeed). a few days later lover brought my dreams of an idyllic life together in the breton countryside crashing down around my ears. i picked myself up, carried on, and so much other stuff happened shortly afterwards that i really didn’t know how to feel anything other than numb for a while. what this means is that i’ve now been single for almost a full calendar year. it’s a state of affairs without precedent, because after much racking of brains and counting of digits, i can say with absolute certainty that the last time i was single for a whole year was in 1988. although to be fair, at that time i’d been single for a total of fifteen years and was breathlessly awaiting the arrival of my first proper boyfriend. how do i feel about this? well, of course i’d rather be happily alone than with someone who was wrong for me. and yes, messing around with few strings attached seemed like fun for a while, but now just strikes me as utterly pointless. as for online dating, i check in to look at my profile from time to time but can rarely muster up sufficient enthusiasm to actually reply to my emails, let alone drag myself out on a blind date. i know that this year without a special (adult) person by my side has been really good for me, in some ways. i’ve built new friendships, invested a lot more in existing ones and spent lashings of quality time with my daughter. i’m sure i needed to be alone, for a while, and that i’ll appreciate sharing the good, the bad and the ugly with a special someone all the more because of it, when the time comes. but am i truly happy with this state of affairs? is single the best thing since the invention of nutella? is single the new size zero? i’d be lying if i said i loved it. single still doesn’t come naturally to me and i doubt it ever will. so please excuse me while i go and comfort myself with a large pot of leftover nutella, a useful side effect of which is that size zero will never, never fit. comments (65) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel