the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu nepal airlifting foreign trekkers from everest region, sending them home posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker after closing everest for the spring 2020 climbing season, then shutting down all trekking activity a few days back, the government in nepal is now working on just how to get all of the foreign hikers in the country back home. reportedly, is has been a very quiet month for travelers visiting the khumbu valley en route to everest base camp, but there are still several hundred trekkers in the region at the moment who have been ordered to stay in place. now, it seems that arrangements are being made to airlift those individuals back to kathmandu and send them back to their home countries as soon as possible. according to the himalayan news about 300 trekkers—most of them from other countries—are currently stranded in the everest region awaiting evacuation. similar, another six hikers are in the manaslu area, with small pockets of others sprinkled throughout nepal in other places too. with its borders now shut to all incoming non-essential personnel, foreign visitors have been ordered to return home. but in order to make that happen, a coordinated effort is underway that involves using helicopters to airlift the trekkers back to kathmandu, where their flights home are being expedited. yesterday, a nepali committee that was assembled to fight the growing coronavirus outbreak in the country informed foreign embassies in nepal if they had citizens that needed to be evacuated. reportedly, several of those embassies have begun chartering flights and working on contingency plans to isolate and quarantine any trekkers who have been in nepal upon return home. south korean and france are two such nations, both of which have been dealing with the coronavirus back home. in korea, the spread of the disease has been largely contained, while in france the situation is becoming dire. the goal is to have rounded up all of the trekkers and returned them to kathmandu over the next few days. once there, their embassies will oversee the process of getting them home. thankfully, march is a relatively quiet time on nepal’s hiking trails to begin with, so these numbers are very low. had an evacuation taken place in april or may, it would require a lot more effort to overcome the logistical challenges. by all accounts, the trails in the himalaya have been very quiet so far this year, with tourism down in nepal even before the travel ban went into place. now, they’ll pretty much be empty except for the locals. the economic fallout of that is going to be felt for a very long time to come. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: