nerd in the country a programmer/engineer and a pediatric registered nurse escape from the detroit area. now, they share a ten acre parcel with their three boys... and three dogs, a score of cats, countless chickens, eleven guineas, four goats, and a horse. the animal population is subject to change without notice. monday, september 12, 2011 i have returned i'm back. i won't bore you with the details right now (maybe later [snicker,]) but issues with energy have reduced my activities. hey, that sounds better than admitting that i have been lazy. anyhow, i'm back, and i have even started a new blog. http://wild-beauty-photography.blogspot.com my gratuitous picture of the day is a bug. posted by nerd in the country at 9:19 am 9 comments monday, december 25, 2006 s--- pictures for the desktop due to popular request (one request, anyhow), i have decided to offer the s--- pictures as desktop wallpaper. again, i had some problems with formatting. i have to narrow the picture (chop off the edges) to convert the image from the 3:2 aspect ratio of 35mm film to the 4:3 aspect ratio of television and computer monitors. i might have to get into the habit of backing the zoom off a bit when taking landscape shots. of course, it's only an issue when making desktop wallpaper. the easiest way to get them is to right-click on the link, then choose [save link as...] or [save link target as...] (exact wording depends on your browser). another way is to click on the link, then right-click the image and download it. 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper 800 x 600 wallpaper 1024 x 768 wallpaper 1280 x 960 wallpaper posted by nerd in the country at 12:45 pm 10 comments saturday, december 23, 2006 christmas i have always loved the whole christmas season. while some grumble about decorations going up in the malls just after halloween, i enjoy it. i love everything about the christmas season -- the decorations, the feeling of peace, and especially the music. i have a special stash of cds that i pull out sometime around thanksgiving, and don't put away until some time in january. of course, i don't forget the reason for the season. in fact, the birth of christ is what makes the whole celebration worthwhile. god gave us the gift of life itself -- eternal life in heaven, and he did it in a way that nobody expected. when you dabble in cosmology and physics, you get somewhat of an appreciation for how huge and complex this whole universe is. the god who created everything from the biggest galaxy to the brightest quasar to the heaviest black hole is awesome beyond belief. how is it that he pays any more heed to us than we do to the tiniest bacterium? the truth is that we are the apple of his eye. we are his most beloved. atheists like to remind us that an omnipotent god won't care any more for us than we do for a speck of dust, but they are wrong. but how can god prove that to us? this above nativity was made by my father made when he was a boy. i remember the creche and figures from early childhood. the angel dangling from the peak is one that we painted when we were kids. he can prove it to us by coming down to this tiny earth as the smallest and most helpless of us -- not as a king is born in a palace, but as a pauper is born not in a home, but in a barn. the mangers that you see in the nativities that are scattered about the world look nice and cozy. believe me, though, that hay is not cozy. it's scratchy and is sure to poke the tender skin of a newborn baby. take it from someone who has tossed plenty of pitch forks full into a manger. empty he came as a man to our race equal with god, yet forsaking his place humbly he served in our world (from the song empty he came) most birthday celebrations don't focus on the birthday boy or girl as a baby. some have wondered why we do this with christ's birthday. the answer, of course, is that we are being reminded that jesus humbled himself when he came to earth to save us. jesus came humbly and quietly in a barn, but the celebrations soon came. the first people who received the announcement were humble shepherds, but the angels of heaven came down and sang. it was an extravagant celebration for the humble people of earth. and that's what i try to do when i decorate. while it is true that less is more on some occasions, and a tasteful and minimalistic display is often appropriate, i want our christmas celebration to be extravagant i want it to be huge and over the top. i dug these pictures out of my archives and scanned them in. there was a house decorated by a gentleman who had to retire early due to a heart attack. he put his heart into making an extravagant display at his house right off of the service drive of i-696 (west of i-75) in detroit. he dressed up as santa and gave out candy canes. he didn't charge. in fact, i don't think he even took donations. it was an act of love, and a worthy gift to the kids who came by. the picture was taken back in 1998, by the way. don was a cute little snot back then. he has since grown up to be quite a handsome boy. aside from salvation itself, this is the finest gift that god has given to me. of course, i would never have been the kind of person who could start and raise a family if i hadn't come from a stable family. (this, too, is an older picture.) when the day to day grind of raising a family starts to get to us, it's good to remember the joy of having children. paul was a charmer right from infancy. that beautiful mane of dark hair belongs to mary, by the way. the first christmas tree that mary and i had as a couple was a potted blue spruce that we bought from the eastern market in detroit. we decorated it and set it on the table. it candled a little after christmas, so we had to keep it in the house. next spring, we planted it. we decorated it every year after that. i don't know if the new owners of the house have kept up the tradition or not. our indoor tree was a norfolk island pine. it kept getting bigger each year. alas, i ended up killing it by taking it outside a little too early one year. the next year, we moved into my parents' cottage and used charlie brown's christmas tree. (yes, i recycled this picture from my blog posting a couple days ago.) here are a couple of my favorite people. my grandparents haven't changed much since this picture was taken at the family christmas party in 1998. it's still up in the air, but i hope to get an opportunity to spend some time with them this christmas. if all goes according to plan, i'll be spending the night with them on christmas eve, and the rest of my family will be at my in-law's place. this picture is somewhat more recent. my brothers have started a new tradition of having a family hymn-sing after dinner and dessert. posted by nerd in the country at 3:46 pm 1 comments wednesday, december 20, 2006 more s--- pictures when we first came to the cadillac area in 2003, we stayed at my parents' cottage on lake austin. we hadn't intended for it to take more than a month or two to sell our old home and find a new home, but we ended up staying in that old (but very nice) single-wide for nine months. it's a beautiful place to stay, but not the best place to winter over. that is, the trailer house isn't all that winter-ready. the lake and surrounding area is beautiful. the sheer volume of snow we had that year made it difficult, but we wouldn't trade it in for our old house on a well-plowed road even in the most difficult of times. this is what the lake looks like when it's iced over, but not covered with snow. the sunset adds color to what would otherwise be a rather bleak photo. there was a line of trees near the north edge of the lot. this picture looks between the line of trees (on the left) and the property line (on the right) at the lake. i know it just looks like a flat area with lots of snow, but it's a lake. this is a shot of the cottage (i mean trailer house) from the lake. to the left, you can see the property line, the leafless oak tree, and the row of spruce trees that were in the previous photo. there will be no more shots that look like this. the line of spruce trees is gone, and a very nice lake home with a walk-out basement has been built. the old trailer house is still there, but it's mostly hidden by my parents' future retirement home. it'll be ripped out from under the roof next year, and turned into a pole barn (which will serve as dad's workshop). on the hill, there are two boys on sleds, plus good 'ol lucy the labrador. she loved the time she spent at the lake. inside, it's cozy and warm. i found a whole bunch of small balsum fir growing under the power line where the power company had previously cleared the area. they were way too close together to grow -- not that the power company is going to let them get taller than maybe ten feet. i harvested one and set it up on the table. with a little creativity, we had a nice little christmas tree that year. it's kind of hard to take a picture that does justice to christmas decorations, but a tripod, a 35mm camera, and some patience can make it happen. the lake association has a few year 'round residents. they all chip in to have the roads (narrow two-tracks about as wide as our current driveway) plowed. with everyone chipping in, it doesn't cost much (i think we provided $20.00 or so). of course, we don't waste money having the place plowed out if there's less than maybe six inches of snow. it's actually quite pretty. i wouldn't mind staying there until january or so. it starts to get old around march or so, and it has been known to snow in may around here. i was playing with the composition in the previous two shots -- going for graceful curves and subtle color. this one, with the fence and the car tracks, is a decent illustration of the 'rule of thirds'. backing off a bit, we add a bit of color by including the garden shack. again, you can make my day and stroke my ego by asking for desktop-sized copies of these photos. posted by nerd in the country at 10:23 am 0 comments tuesday, december 19, 2006 s--- yes, we're talking about a four letter word that starts with "s". yep, we got that white stuff all over our driveway. actually, it's had been there for a couple days by the time i took this picture. now, it's all melted. it'll be back, though. you can count on it. but that's ok, the snow blower is all gassed up and ready. i have a nice snow suit that came with this house, a pair of ski goggles, and some muck boots. i think i need to replace them with snowmobile boots, but they work ok. they're a bit heavy for the half mile or more of walking that i do when blowing out our tenth of a mile of driveway, but it's not like a little extra effort is going to hurt me. this fence was installed by the previous owners as decoration. i'm trying to get a pleasing composition here, but am less than successful. the picture is ok, but nothing like i had in mind. here's another effort to turn that old fence into a thing of beauty. i made a whole bunch of other attempts, but none of them are worth resizing and displaying. i'm glad i used the digital camera for this attempt. still, it's a good illustration of how to almost turn an old ratty fence into a decent picture. maybe a photography teacher somewhere can use it when teaching how not to compose a picture. this is our humble abode (and my humble jeep). this is part of our middle pasture, which contains a bunch of blue spruce that were planted by a previous owner. we chose one that was growing too close to another as our christmas tree this year. we like to cull out the ones that won't be good for transplanting. we still need to figure out what to do with all those trees before they get too big. most are already too big to move with anything but the biggest tree spade. this is a shot through the middle woods and into the middle pasture. that little strip of woods makes a nice wind break in the winter, and provides shade in the summer. so, winter is officially here -- though it will supposedly be mild this year. the snowmobiles have been out a couple times, but the ground is currently bare. i won't mind if it stays that way for a few days. i don't count on having bare ground for long, though. soon, there will be s--- all over the ground again. maybe it'll be gone by may. by the way, if you want larger (wallpaper) versions of any of those pictures, make my day and let me know. you might want to wait until tomorrow, though. i'll be posting some much better pictures that i took a couple years ago. posted by nerd in the country at 11:03 pm 1 comments friday, november 24, 2006 burrrrrp! yesterday, we americans celebrated thanksgiving. other countries that celebrate this holiday choose another day, and perhaps another historical event. we celebrate thanksgiving on the fourth thursday of november, and we commemorate the feast that the pilgrims and the local indians celebrated when they thanked god for the bountiful harvest. the traditional main course is turkey, causing some people to refer to it as 'turkey day'. we tend to not do that, preferring to remember that it is a day of thanks giving. of course, that doesn't stop us from pigging out. i've been eating lightly for the past several weeks, and have managed to drop about 30-35 pounds, but i fear that i gained a few back yesterday. (first thing to be thankful for: food is so plentiful that we take it for granted). that's ok, though. i'll just have to walk around the property a few more times than usual to get some exercise. (second thing to be thankful for: we get to live out here in the country.) what are you thankful for? that question is asked and answered so often that it sometimes sounds trite. still, there are things that we take for granted that would be unachievable dreams to some people. in biblical times, a rich man was a man who had all the food he wants. right now, just owning a car would make you rich in some countries. i thank god for the long list of things that we can take for granted. i thank him that i was born in a country that is still free (despite the best efforts of some). i'm thankful for the two vehicles in the driveway, the ten acres that we own, the house that shelters us, and even the fact that the pellet stove now works. but those aren't necessarily the biggest blessings. i'm thankful for salvation. it's easy to take that for granted, but the security of knowing that a loving god is watching over me underpins my entire life. being saved (a free gift, by the way) means that no matter how many mistakes i make, and how bad life becomes, heaven will be waiting for me at the end. following god (a choice made beyond salvation) means that my life will be better than it would otherwise be, that any pain and suffering has a purpose, that i am getting better, wiser, and more mature as god shapes me, and that my efforts yield success not just for myself, not for just my family, but for the people around me -- some of whom i haven't even met. the ability to have a positive effect on the lives of others is the greatest gift, aside from salvation itself, that we have received from god. but why do we need to express our thankfulness? i'm going to steal something from pastor dan's message last sunday. 12 as he entered into a certain village, ten men who were lepers met him, who stood at a distance. 13 they lifted up their voices, saying, "jesus, master, have mercy on us!" 14 when he saw them, he said to them, "go and show yourselves to the priests." it happened that as they went, they were cleansed. 15 one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, glorifying god with a loud voice. 16 he fell on his face at jesus' feet, giving him thanks; and he was a samaritan. 17 jesus answered, "weren't the ten cleansed? but where are the nine? 18 were there none found who returned to give glory to god, except this stranger?" 19 then he said to him, "get up, and go your way. your faith has healed you." luke 17:12-19 jesus cured the leprosy of ten people. that means that the disease was gone, and they didn't lose any more of their body parts. one person came back and gave thanks. that one was not only cleansed, he was healed ("made whole", in some translations). the body parts that he had lost were restored. when we express our thankfulness, especially when we publicly express it, we end up with more to be thankful for. pastor dan says that god 'completes the miracle'. in the story above, he started the miracle by healing the ten lepers. he completed the miracle by making the one whole. the one who was thankful got all his body parts back. so what are you thankful for? do you have loved ones? is there anyone in this world who loves you? if not, be sure that god loves you, and will provide you with other human companionship if you ask. you have to ask, though, because god gave us free will, and doesn't play puppet master with us. we spent the day with my parents and siblings. like most brothers and sisters, we had our fights and disagreements when we were growing up. i consider them to be among my treasures now, though. jesus told us to store up our treasures in heaven. most of the time, we are told to do that by doing god's will. still, the loved ones that we have now will be there up in heaven with us. my great grandparents and a whole lot of other people are treasures that are already stored up in heaven waiting for me. when i was in the army, i met quite a few people who joined simply as a way to get away from their parents. i always found that to be very sad because i wanted nothing more than to be at home with my family. family is important. those of us who have been separated for any length of time know that. so i'm thankful for my parents. i enjoy spending time with them when they come up to their vacation home. i'm thankful for the times that we get together as a family for the holidays. i'm thankful for grandma and grandpa kelly. they, along with my parents, did a lot to make me who i am. i'm looking forward to seeing them this christmas. when i was in the army, i plumbed the depths of loneliness (especially during the holidays). later, when i was attending college, i experienced a different kind of loneliness. my family was around, and i enjoyed their company, but i was missing that one person who would share my life with me. that changed in the summer of 1991. i'm thankful for mary because she completes me. i even have to grit my teeth and say that i'm thankful for the lonely years because without them, i would probably have been unaware of the treasure that god had sent my way, and had lost it during some difficult times when our relationship was on the rocks. some people don't realize what they had until they lose it. i know what i have, and what it's like to not have it, and that motivates me to do everything in my power to not lose it. i'm thankful for our children. we get some shadow of an understanding of god's love for us by looking into the face of our children. we understand god's frustration and his patience with us when we find ourselves correcting the same child for the same transgression for the umpteenth time (that day). i'm thankful for the good times with my wife and children. just scroll down in this blog for pictorial proof. through all the challenges in life, life is still good. now that i'm done pontificating, it's time to show some more eye candy. i'm afraid that all the leaves are gone up here in michigan (except for the oak leaves, which hang on all winter), but maybe some people further south are still enjoying fall color. all of these pictures were taken from our property or near our property last year. i put them under a bunch of text because they are wide and will otherwise end up sitting under the text to the right. we live on a road that goes north-south. our property has 330' of frontage, and goes back 1/4 of a mile (1320') from the road. in other words, it's a 1/16 mile by 1/4 mile strip that goes east to west. this is a view from the north edge of our property looking into the 40 acre parcel to our north. this is a similar view, but i am standing on the hill just west of that small strip of woods in the middle of our property, and looking over our patch of blue spruce to the front. our back red pine forest is to the left, and the neighbor's property straight forward and to and right. this picture was taken from the back edge (west edge) of the property. that maple tree with the old fence post leaning against it is pretty much on the property line. beyond it is a planted red pine forest that was recently partially harvested. this was taken from the north-west corner of the property. the red pine to the right is one of ours, and the line of maple trees on the left make up the west border of the neighbor's 40 acre parcel. this old fence post is on the north edge of our property. my father noticed it and commented on its potential for a good photo. this is a shot of the partially harvested red pine forest to the west of our property. the maple branches at the top and left of the photo are on the trees that grow on the fence row. this is a shot of the road that we live on. this shot was taken perhaps 1/8 of a mile to the south of our property. you're looking north. our driveway can't be seen, but it is to the left a bit beyond that slight rise. this is yet another shot into the 40 acre parcel to our north. this shot was taken from within a few feet of that old fence post. posted by nerd in the country at 1:12 pm 0 comments wednesday, november 22, 2006 changes things are in an uproar around here. we're being hit from a few different directions, so it's time to hold on tight and ride it out. it's stressful (to say the least), but not necessarily a bad thing. to those of us who follow god, changes mean growth, and generally improvement. it's time to move our lives on up to the next level. i'm sorry that i haven't updated in so long. there can really be no excuses -- i could have if i had made it a priority. instead, i did a lot of reading and writing. first of all, mary's hours were cut way back. somehow, by the grace of god, we have been pulling through without any major trouble. also, the tap is about to be turned back on. meanwhile, i sent my resume' out, but not enough, apparently. for the last several years, when i have prayed about financial challenges, the impression that i have always gotten back is that i need to write more. so, that's what i have been doing. i actually finished a short story that ended up turning into a novella or novelette or whatever you call it. it weighs in at just under 50,000 words, and is begging for a sequel. it's decidedly weird, but there are plenty of science fiction fans that will enjoy it if i manage to get it published. meanwhile, while that one is awaiting feedback (if i can find some test readers), i have started another one that doesn't even have a decent working title. this one, at least, shouldn't bother anyone's sensibilities. one of the characters is trying to turn it into a romance story, but i don't do harlaquin or emily loring or any of those. it's science fiction. i'm trying hard to give it that 'sense of wonder' that you find in classic sf, while simultaneously putting in a whole bunch of character development. meanwhile, back at the ranch... i mean farm, things are winding down for the winter. the hoses have been rolled up and put away, and other outdoor items are being put away. i have a nice five gallon can of gas sitting next to the snow blower, and have filled in the pit that the chickens dug behind it by taking dust baths all summer. the broiler chickens have all been processed. one ended up getting processed earlier than the others because mary caught the neighbors' dog dragging it home by the neck (broilers are really stupid and slow). she chased the dog off and brought the mortally wounded chicken into the house. it was cold and slightly snowy out, so we had to do the job in the cold. luckily for us, the next couple weeks had nicer weather. we did in the rest a few at a time, and they now reside in our freezer (the ones that we haven't eaten yet). somewhat after the incident with the dog, two of the dogs came over and wanted to harass (or eat) our chickens. one looks like a pit bull, and the other is a very nice bird dog. i could have shot the bird dog, but instead just fired at a tree. the neighbor called the dogs home. next sunday, when we were getting home from church, they were both over again. mary chased the pit bull home and caught the bird dog in the barn with feathers in its mouth. we put the dog into our dog pen (empty at the time) and waited for the neighbors to come and ask about him. they sent their youngest daughter first, and we told her that we wanted to talk to an adult. they sent the fifteen year old daughter next, who claimed that her mom couldn't walk. i hate confrontations. i had butterflies in my stomach pretty bad by then, so i prayed for the fortitude to do this right. i really want to get along with the neighbors. to that end, i blow out their part of the driveway in the winter, we take care of their dog when they go on trips, and occasionally send a dozen eggs or some chicken over to them. anyhow, i explained to the kids that we had caught one dog actually mauling a chicken, and that the other was in our garage with feathers in its mouth. i also explained that if it had been anyone else's dogs, that i would have shot them. then, i gave them back their dog. but the boyfriend of the mom had to have his say. he came over as they were taking the dog back and started to threaten me. this is where my earlier prayer was answered, because i was able to calmly but assertively tell him the same thing that i told the kids. he kept ranting and told us that our chickens went to their property, but they never bothered them. that was a lie, of course. mary saw val point a gun at a guinea, and saw the kids try to catch one with a net. all but two of our guineas had disappeared, and i don't know how many chickens were gone. i told him that -- that we can't prove anything, but we know that they have been killing our chickens. val was about half way across their property (apparently she can walk) ranting at us about how we're going too far when we mess with their dogs. i reiterated the point about the dogs messing with our chickens, and that it is perfectly legal for us to protect our livestock. one more time, they decided to let their dogs run loose while we were at church. mary came close to running the pit bull over as she came up the driveway. that was the last time we saw them running loose. we keep praying for that family -- especially the kids. val has actually come a long way -- going from an abuse shelter to owning the ten acres that she lives on. john (the boyfriend), i fear, is suffering from damage due to excess alcohol consumption. on a spiritual level, mary and i have to keep luke 18:9-14 in mind. we have to guard against feeling superior or lofty, remembering that we are where we are by the grace of god. what would we be like if we had been raised with other values? when i first read about the unibomer's past, i got cold shivers. without god's guidance, i could have ended up like him. if you are a christian, don't ever discount your ability to change a life. my life got turned around on the last day of my sophomore year in high school when mr. unseld's patient counsellings finally bore fruit and i came back to christ. - - - another thing that has been happening is that the slope behind the animal shelter area has been eroding -- probably due to some interesting fluid dynamics. enclosing the awning seems to have caused the water to go straight down from the drip edge instead of spreading out. this caused there to be quite the cliff right at the edge of the roof. that makes it a bit harder for the animals to get up into the shelter area (though it doesn't bother the goats much). the horse caused further damage at the door. the only way we are going to be able to fix it is to open the fence and get a tractor into the pen (and we don't have a tractor yet). then, we need to add rocks or concrete to the area that's subject to erosion. the only other thing to do is to get rid of the horse and the goats. truthfully, the animals have been a big blessing, but the lessons learned are done. having them helped the kids understand a number of things that they would otherwise not have learned. now, however, the cost (time, money, worry) has exceeded the benefit. also, when i was discussing the dog situation with john, he threatened to shoot the horse. at that point, we decided that we needed to love the animals enough to let someone else have them. as it turns out, we found good homes for all of them. we called the person who sold liberty, the nubian goat, to us. she didn't want her back, but she had sold a goat kid to someone who's children can't tolerate cow's milk. it would take well over a year to get the kid mature enough to breed, then get her lactating. since liberty was ready to breed, they will have milk in five months. we gave liberty to them, and felt good about it because she will be a big blessing to that family. we found another family that was willing to buy the horse, and take the two toggenburgs (a doe ready to breed and a wether). they are definitely getting a lot from those animals. the blessings are passed on. so now we have no more large mammals. that means that we have no use for those 3 1/2 round bales that are sitting in the garage, but we'll use at least some of it to keep the nest boxes lined. egg production is way down, but maybe it'll go back up once everyone is done molting. in any case, we need to get a bunch of pullets (female chicks) next spring because it would appear that some of our hens aren't laying much. my mom tells me that spent hens make the best soup, so it looks like she'll be making soup next spring. i'll give them a chance to get off their butts... or get on their butts and give us some cackle berries, then we'll determine who's laying and who isn't. someone on the chicken email list sent this gem: roses are red violets are blue hens that don't lay are turned into stew (that goes for mean roosters, too) in other news, our pellet stove quit. we have it running (sort of) now, though. pellet stoves were designed to burn what used to be a waste product -- sawdust. the sawdust is compressed and extruded into pellets that look a whole lot like rabbit (or horse) pellets. the stove uses an auger to continually drop pellets into a burn tray. the fire has excess oxygen, so it burns cleanly. the heat output is controlled by the speed of the auger. ours is a whitfield advantage plus that the previous owners bought some time around 1994 or so. it's nice to have, but there are times that we would like something that burns wood, and doesn't require electricity to run. to use the stove, you simply fill the hopper, put some pellets into the burn tray, and push the start button. a heater blows a small slow jet of hot air onto the pellets (from underneath), which slowly ignites them. the controller is designed to automatically run for about fifteen minutes, then switch modes. after the fifteen minute grace period, it checks a temperature sensor on the exhaust fan. if there is no heat, the stove shuts itself down. that keeps the stove from filling the entire combustion area with pellets. if the fire goes out for some reason, the stove runs until the temperature of the exhaust fan goes down. then it stops. when you find it the next morning, you see a pan full of pellets. the auger continues to run just long enough to fill the pan. but this year, when i pushed the start button, the ten leds lit up, then shut off. nothing else happened. one time, it decided to work. we rejoiced because that side of the house had been getting mighty cold. when i shut it down for cleaning, however, it wouldn't start up again. i pulled the controller and checked the wiring. mary cleaned things out. for about a month, we didn't have heat in that half of the house, so we closed the french doors and let the kids sleep in the library. i searched the internet for information. someone had gotten the service manual off of the whitfield web site, but the link that he posted was broken. it turns out that lennox bought out whitfield, and took down the site. i never succeeded in finding the manual on the lennox site. boo! hiss! bad customer support! anyhow, the thing isn't that complicated a piece of machinery. it had to either be a sensor or the controller. my theory is that if the exhaust temperature sensor goes out, the stove should ignite properly and run for fifteen minutes, then shut itself down. that's not what it did, but i decided to short out the sensor anyhow. surprise! the stove immediately started running. the self-igniter never did its thing, though. also, i didn't have to press the start button to get it going. it just started running as soon as i short-circuited the sensor. not looking a gift horse in the mouth, i put some pellets into the tray and lit them with a propane torch. everything ran normally after that, until the fire went out. then, the stove proceeded to fill the combustion area with pellets. that was predictable. after dealing with this for a while, i decided to get the stove going, then pull the shorting wire off of the sensor. this time, when the fire went out, everything shut down after the exhaust blower cooled off. so, that means that the sensor is ok. instead of buying a sensor, i have to either buy or repair the control board. (which was my first inclination, anyhow). anyhow, if that thing breaks down all the way, i'll probably replace it with a corn stove. a corn stove is like a pellet stove, but it burns corn. you couldn't get pellets for love nor money last year, and the price went way up during the rare times when you could find them. we ended up asking my sister to pick some up from a store in lansing. then, we started burning a mixture of 90-95% corn, with just enough pellets to keep it going. the stove isn't designed for corn, and whitfield says to never burn corn, but it does work. corn is harder to ignite and keep going, but it can be burned. some claim that it can harm the stove, but it's either that or toss it in the junk because it's useless without the fuel. there are some practical problems with using corn. it's not near as convenient because you have to keep the feed up to level three (out of five) until there is a layer of clinker built up in the burn tray. then, you can turn it down to two, and finally one. once the clinker builds up, you have to shut down, take the clinker out (it looks like a white brick), and start all over again. it's a whole lot of babysitting, but it keeps the house warm. if we can get more pellets this year, we're going to go down to a 50% mixture. that mixture behaves much better. a 30% mixture (30% corn) behaves almost the same as pure pellets, except that it puts out more heat. by the way, corn is now cheaper than pellets. since we are gong to the feed mill every week or two anyhow, we just pick up a bunch of corn (keeps the farmers happy). and all the people who worry about greenhouse gases can smile about burning biomass instead of fossil fuels. so that's what's happening here. what's up with you? posted by nerd in the country at 7:28 pm 0 comments about me name: nerd in the country location: cadillac, michigan, united states view my complete profile links google news edit-me edit-me previous posts i have returned s--- pictures for the desktop christmas more s--- pictures s--- burrrrrp! changes more fall eye candy back again more eye candy archives march 2006 april 2006 may 2006 june 2006 july 2006 august 2006 september 2006 october 2006 november 2006 december 2006 september 2011