login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts join the rebellion at nerd fitness! regardless of where you’re at on your fitness journey today, welcome to your new home here in the nerd fitness rebellion. we’re a full-time team of 25 supportive nerds (and a massive worldwide community) that is home to some of the best health and fitness advice in the galaxy since 2009: our online coaching program kicks ass: 16 credentialed trainers (who also happen to be huge nerds) create custom workout programs and nutritional advice for busy people like you, all handled through an easy to use mobile app. we offer self-paced online courses and do occasional in-person events like camp nerd fitness (above). we receive over 1 million visitors each month, and have 50,000+ satisfied customers. we’ve been featured in the washington post, cnet, wall street journal, and forbes. our free biweekly newsletter includes well researched fitness health and fitness info and has 150,000+ subscribers. our online community is the most supportive group of people in the galaxy. please learn more all about us by clicking on the sections below: what is nerd fitness? why “nerd” fitness? the nerd fitness philosophy who is on team nerd fitness join team nerd fitness contact nerd fitness get your nerd fitness starter kit the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. full guide to the most effective diet and why it works. complete and track your first workout today, no gym required. what is nerd fitness? i’m steve kamb, founder of nerd fitness and leader of this rag tag group of misfits. i started nerd fitness in 2009 and have been publishing 1-2 articles per week ever since. i’m also the best-selling author of “level up your life,” which you can find in bookstores or online. after all, as stated in rule #1 of the rebellion (the name of our community!) “we don’t care where you came from, only where you’re going.” maybe you’re here because you’re overweight and frustrated. you’ve tried everything and nothing has stuck. maybe you’re here because your doctor told you that you’re in danger of some serious health issues, and this has you scared. maybe you’re here because you just had a kid and the reality that you being unhealthy could make their lives more difficult just hit you like a ton of bricks. maybe you’re here because you just want to look in the mirror and feel better about yourself. whatever reason you have for being here, welcome! starting right now, you’re going to learn how tiny little changes, done deliberately, will help you live a better, happier, healthier, more fulfilling life. sure, we’ll cover: how to work out in a gym: 6 beginner gym workouts!. a bodyweight workout routine you can do at home. how to find a good personal trainer. how to lose weight without dieting. beginner guide to the keto diet. 5 best strength training workouts for beginners. however, as morpheus tell us, “there’s a difference between knowing the path and walking the path”: which is why we also dive deep into fixing your mindset, helping you build habits, and change your life one decision at a time. the best part? by the time you’re firing on all cylinders, you’ll actually have fun with this stuff. depending on where you’re at now with your life, that might sound crazy; however, give me your attention now and promise me you’ll take a few key actions and we’ll get you there. a big part of your success will be finding ways to make exercise fun! if you don’t like running or going to a gym, you’ll never have to do either of those things and you’ll still find happiness, purpose, and a sense of accomplishment with your training. as we’ve learned from optimus prime, small changes can eventually add up to huge results. you’re going to learn how to make small changes, how to do basic workouts, and cook a few good meals that help you fundamentally change your appearance and mindset. you’ll hear stories from people like you, normal men and women, young and old, often with families and children, and full-time desk jobs. we have tons of success stories like leslie here from our coaching program: these are people that found a way to get in incredible shape while still doing all of the things they love. these people followed the lessons learned from nerd fitness to level up their lives with pretty drastic results. most importantly, they got to fully embrace what made them who they are! we lovingly refer to ourselves as a bunch of weirdos and misfits, as we don’t fit the mold! if you have nerdy pursuits, quirky hobbies, or you just want to finally stop hiding who you are and start being yourself, this might be the home you’re looking for. i want you to know that you’re not alone. not only that, but the world needs you, and we need you now! everybody tries to get in shape and fails many times before finally breaking through, so if this sounds like you, you’re in good company. if you are willing to educate yourself with the content here, share your struggles with your fellow rebels, you can achieve results that lasts for the rest of your life. here are some success stories from rebels who have followed the nerd fitness philosophy (with even more here): meet staci: your new powerlifting superhero how christina lost 40 pounds and now crushes pull-ups. how doctor jeff got out of his own head and started getting results. do any of those sound like things you’re interested in? if so, join the rebellion today and we’ll get you kickstarted with a rebel starter kit so you can start living healthier immediately. get your free nerd fitness resource kit 15 fitness traps you should avoid comprehensive beginner's guide to paleo diet bonus: how to level up your life and be the hero of your own story why “nerd” fitness? first and foremost, our goal with nerd fitness is to remove every barrier – mental, physical, and emotional – that keep people like you from changing your life for the better. after struggling to get myself healthy for many years and finally finding some success, i knew i wanted to start helping others like me. i was so sick of infomercials selling useless fitness products, marketers selling dangerous supplements, and people getting discouraged when they didn’t get results from these things. these products are designed to make money for big conglomerates or internet marketers, not to actually help people live better. and based on how elaborate the schemes are to get people to buy their stuff, these companies are making a lot of money. in 2008, i purchased the domain nerdfitness.com because i didn’t see anybody helping out people like me: people with desk jobs that love nerd culture, games, books, and movies, but also know they need to make healthier choices in their day to day lives. there’s a reason there are no ads or sponsorships on nerd fitness: i wanted the information to be unsullied and backed by scientific research, studies, and because we’ve tried it ourselves found things that actually work. now, ever the years, as i created more and content for nerd fitness, a community developed – i saw first hand the changes it was making in people’s lives and set my sights much higher. what started as a 1-man side project evolved into an online community of misfits, and now it has become a movement. here’s a picture from one of our recent in-person events, camp nerd fitness, 450 nerds strong! the nerd fitness training philosophy still reading? want to know more about our training philosophy? fitness we exercise because it’s fun. if the idea of running on a treadmill for three hours sounds miserable, then don’t do it! if you don’t want to lift weights, don’t do it! there are so many different ways to burn calories that any and all methods are acceptable, provided they get you results and put a smile on your face. yoga, karate, weight lifting, ultimate frisbee, cycling, larping, whatever it is – we’ll help you find what it is that gets your heart racing, and help you get better at it. now, if you’re up for anything and want to burn the most calories in the most efficient manner possible, i’d recommend looking into starting with the nerd fitness beginner body weight circuit: if you’re looking for more of a step-by-step guide, i’ve created a product specifically for busy people who want to get in shape with or without a gym membership: the nerd fitness academy, but try the free workout first! for the reasoning behind my strong belief in weight training, check out our strength training 101 article and our research on strength training vs. cardio. diet we understand that 80% of our success in losing weight will be a direct results of what we eat. if you’re somebody that can’t seem to lose weight, i’d highly recommend you read our article “why can’t i lose weight?” for the truth. we believe in having a good strategy for healthy eating, but also being realistic about our lives. i also understand that sometimes our lives, jobs, and families often make it difficult to eat healthy 100% of the time, so we do the best we can with what we have in each situation. to explain just how important your diet is to getting in shape, i recommend reading “how to lose weight without dieting” i’m not advocating doing zero exercise, but i just wanted to highlight how important eating well really is. it comes down to a few basic steps: eat real food as often as possible. cut back on fake foods and processed foods. eat in moderation. mindset now, possibly more important than both fitness and diet when it comes to getting in shape is your mental attitude. gandalf said it best: “all we have to decide is what to do with the time that is given to us.” everybody can make excuses why they’re overweight and out of shape. it’s the successful ones who shut their mouths, play the hand they’re dealt, and take care of business! we all have lives, jobs, families, pets, friends, and more that can keep us from getting in shape. rather than use those things as excuses or shirk your other duties to get in shape, instead why not find a way to incorporate your changes into your daily life? your exercise and diet can become part of what you are, but not at the expense of who you are. get your free nerd fitness resource kit 15 fitness traps you should avoid comprehensive beginner's guide to paleo diet bonus: how to level up your life and be the hero of your own story about team nerd fitness these days, we have a full-time team of 25 (!) people at team nf dedicated to helping you live better. our head of coaching, jim bathurst, has 10 years of personal training experience in washington dc, winning “best personal trainer in dc” from the citypaper. he was also crossfit director for crossfit foggy bottom, where he won “best crossfit gym in dc” his first year as director, for the awesome and supportive community he established. here are his credentials: certified strength and conditioning specialist (cscs) with the nsca precision nutrition level 1 usa weightlifting sport performance coach (usaw) crossfit level 1 functional range conditioning (frc) adaptive athletes certification oh, and he love star wars more than you: our lead female trainer, staci ardison, has one of the best success stories i’ve ever seen, got certified as a crossfit instructor, and now competes in powerlifting competitions: all 15 of other trainers on team nerd fitness have equally impressive resumes, credentials, and experienced track records of getting results for their clients: whether you’re 18 or 80, we are prepared to help you reach your goals. we have certifications, training, and experience working with people of all genders, shapes, and sizes. learn more about our online coaching program careers at team nerd fitness we are fundamentally changing the health and fitness industry, and we plan on changing the world too. believe it or not, we’re looking for somebody just like you to join our party. yes, you. if you are interested in joining team nerd fitness: learn more about careers at nerd fitness: my only request: bring all of you: the quirks, the weirdness, the fun. that’s what separates us from the rest of the fitness community. we are who we train, and we help people in a way that they love, because we get to be 100% ourselves. the world needs more heroes, and we want you to be a part of it. contact nerd fitness if you have questions or inquiries and you’re looking for more information about nerd fitness, please contact us at: contact@nerdfitness.com please only reach out if you have questions we can help with or you want to learn more about nerd fitness! we do not accept guest posts, we do not do product reviews, we do not endorse or sell supplements, we do not do affiliate programs. please read the nerd fitness disclaimer. welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy