login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts the beginner bodyweight workout: try this 20 minute routine at home or anywhere! by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 1338 comments so you want to lose weight and get in shape, but you don’t want to leave your house? well, as your fitness yoda, i will teach you a great bodyweight workout routine you can do anywhere: in your living room, at a park, or in a galaxy far, far away…. these are the types of workouts we build for our busy online coaching clients, and i’m pumped to share it with you today! let us build a bodyweight training program for you! here’s how we’ll dig into the different parts of this workout and get to the action: what are the benefits of bodyweight workouts? beginner bodyweight workout video (and sheet). 12 best bodyweight exercises for beginners an important note about nutrition. what’s next after the beginner bodyweight workout? make sure you also download the beginner bodyweight workout pdf so you can track your progress and level up at home. i’ll send it on over when you join the nerd fitness rebellion in the box below: grab your beginner bodyweight routine worksheet. no gym required! complete this workout at home, no equipment required avoid the common mistakes everybody makes when doing bodyweight exercises learn how to finally get your first pull-up note: if you’re here because your gym is shut down due to the outbreak of covid-19, check out our guide “how to stay in shape (while staying inside).” continue reading → advanced bodyweight workout circuit: a full body routine you can do at home by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 205 comments want to get strong but hate the gym? no problem! with today’s advanced bodyweight routine, you can burn fat, build muscle, and get a great workout in! all with no gym membership required! it’s the kind of workout we build through our online coaching program. if you’re in a hurry, sign-up for our free weekly newsletter and we’ll send you pdfs of our “work out at home” guides! download our free home workout guides! if you’re ready, click the sections below to get right into the action: advanced bodyweight workout video 21 best advanced bodyweight exercises how to scale your bodyweight workout what’s next after the advanced bodyweight workout? you might have come to this article through our beginner bodyweight workout; if so, welcome! if you didn’t, i’d recommend starting there before moving onto this routine, because this is uber-advanced and designed for nerds looking for a brutally difficult challenge. continue reading → the 42 best bodyweight exercises: the ultimate guide for working out anywhere! by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 6 comments here are the 42 best bodyweight exercises you can do to build muscle and burn fat, no gym required! these are the exact exercises we start our coaching clients on, and many perform them from their house or apartment. in a hurry? sign-up for our free weekly newsletter and we’ll send you pdfs of our “work out at home” guides! download our free home workout guides! we’ve organized the exercises in today’s guide by major muscle groups (click to jump to those movements): the 11 best lower-body exercises the 8 best upper-body – push exercises the 7 best upper-body – pull exercises the 11 best core exercises 5 full-body exercises (dynamic movements) how to build a bodyweight workout plus, we’ll pull it all together at the end so you can create a complete bodyweight workout routine! note: if you’re here because your gym is shut down due to the outbreak of covid-19, check out our guide “how to stay in shape (while staying inside).” alright, let’s get to it. continue reading → the 7 best at-home workout routines: the ultimate guide for training without a gym by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 3 comments so you want to start working out, but you don’t want to leave the house? no problem! our online coaches specialize in helping people get fit from home. if you’re in a hurry, sign-up for our free weekly newsletter and we’ll send you pdfs of our “work out at home” guides! download our free home workout guides! let’s go over the 7 best at-home workouts so you can start training today: no gym or equipment required! a note on warming up and cooling down home workout #1: beginner bodyweight (start here) home workout #2: advanced bodyweight home workout #3: the 20-min hotel routine home workout #4: high-intensity interval training home workout #5: attack of the angry birds home workout #6: train like batman home workout #7: the plp progression bonus no-equipment workout: the playground circuit how to build your own at-home workout note: if you’re here because your gym is shut down due to the outbreak of covid-19, check out our guide “how to stay in shape (while staying inside).” continue reading → how to stay in shape without leaving the house: the ultimate guide for getting fit at home by steve kamb • last updated: march 11, 2020 • 11 comments it’s time to learn how to get fit without leaving your home: maybe you’re practicing a self-quarantine. maybe you work from your apartment and are avoiding the gym. or maybe you just like living like a house cat. either way, you’ve come to the right place! with coronavirus (and covid-19) chaos swirling around the world right now, more and more people are being advised (or ordered) to stay indoors. that’s why i put together a practical guide for rational people to help you stay fit even if you can’t leave the house. we’ve had incredible success with no-gym workouts for our 1-on-1 online coaching program, allowing our clients to train from any part of the world…or an underground bunker. no gym? no problem! let our coaches build a home routine for you. here’s what we’ll cover in our guide, how to stay in shape without leaving the house: how to stay in shape (while staying inside) 11 workouts you can do at home building a temporary home gym: what equipment to buy the nerd fitness “stuck in the house” game tips and tricks for staying fit inside how to get fit from home (next steps) note: this is not prescriptive, nor guidance about protecting against the coronavirus – see the ps. let’s jump right in! continue reading → no gym? no problem! jimmy the engineer’s epic transformation. by steve kamb • last updated: march 5, 2020 • 0 comments “holy crap, jimmy!” it’s amazing what can happen in 12 months with the right plan! this is jimmy, an aeronautical engineer from atlanta who is currently getting his master’s in aerospace engineering. he joined our online coaching program in early 2019 and let us know he had a dream of being able to dress up and cosplay as spider-man (photo below). (as somebody who used to dress up like superman 4 days a week, i get it.) jimmy’s situation had some interesting wrinkles: he works a full-time job and is studying to become an aerospace engineer. he was a self-described “picky eater” and wasn’t sure how to fix his diet. he had worked out in the past, but didn’t enjoy going to the gym. to that, we said, “well, jimmy, let’s get to work.” (cue the training montage and spider-man music!) how jimmy got in shape coach justin from team nerd fitness created a specific program for jimmy called “operation holland.” you know, like tom holland, the actor who plays spider-man. justin and jimmy worked hand-in-hand (well, virtually anyway) through the nerd fitness app to build a program that fit jimmy’s busy life. 12 months later…you be the judge. i’d say “operation holland” was a success! here are the 4 big changes that helped jimmy make the most progress: #1) nutrition is everything: in his own words: “really shows that fixing the diet is the most important thing. i’ve worked out a decent amount for months before but never got close to this.”⁣⁣⁠⠀ coach justin created a nutritional strategy for jimmy that worked around his picky eating, which provided enough protein for muscle building, and helped him stay full while also losing fat. ⠀ #2) no gym required: jimmy trained in his home with just bodyweight exercises, some dumbbells, and gymnastic rings. ⁣⁠⠀ this style of training can build muscle, it just needs to be done with the right intention and intensity! for example, not just doing more push-ups, but switching to decline push-ups to make them harder.⁣⁠⠀ jimmy started with push-ups and squats, but now he’s doing advanced gymnastic moves like the front lever!⁣⁠⠀ #3) prioritize yourself: jimmy has been with our program for a year now, and knew this transformation wouldn’t happen overnight. he stayed the course, focused on his nutrition, and put in the time.⁣ it’s really easy to get sidetracked or give up when things get challenging, especially if life becomes hectic. i’m proud of jimmy for choosing himself and sticking with it! #4) consistency and adherence: we often overestimate what we can do in a day, and underestimate what we can accomplish in a year. you can do amazing things in a year…if you can stick with it for the entire year! a transformation like this requires focus to follow a plan, especially when bored or busy, and the discipline to get right back on track after a speed bump.⁠ fortunately, jimmy had confidence in his coach’s plan, and all he had to do was follow the path! i’m really proud of what jimmy accomplished in the nf coaching program, and i’d love to help you transform too. where will you be in 12 months? think back to where you were at the start of 2019: have you hit your goals and seen progress, or have you run into a few speed bumps? have you made considerable steps forward, or do you feel stuck in the mud? if it’s the former, great! keep doing what you’re doing! if it’s the latter, that’s okay too! life is tough. sh** happens. and circumstances change! maybe you had a kid, or changed jobs, or adopted a puppy, and life got hectic. maybe you just had a crappy 2019 and couldn’t make any changes stick. now, i have another question for you: when you email me in 2021, how will you have changed? more importantly, what are you going to do differently to actually make results stick? if i may be so bold, maybe you’ll come to the conclusion you don’t want to go on this weight-loss or muscle building journey alone. (i’ve worked with an online coach for 5 years now). you want a yoda. a real master who can show you the ways of the force. luckily, we have a team of jedi masters who do this stuff all day, every day: we have kick-ass coaches that create nerdy-themed programs for our clients. for clients willing to put in the effort, we get amazing results. we offer worldwide accountability and support. our coaches provide insight beyond just “do this workout” or “eat broccoli.” you can get that for free on the internet. we provide insight, expert guidance, and have the experience of coaching thousands of busy clients to success. we actually get results. we tailor each program to each client. single moms, students, scientists, world-traveling doctors, we’ve worked with people from all walks of life. we go at the pace each client needs. we save clients from themselves. we all have that voice in our head that tells us to give up, that things are too hard, that we should “hit pause until life gets unbusy.” we also all know that this “pause” strategy never works – because life doesn’t have a pause button. but dang, the voice in our head is very persuasive. fortunately, this is what we do best: help clients essentially save themselves…from themselves. if you are ready to jump into battle with one of our jedi masters in your pocket (through the nf coaching app, not literally)… we’d love to hear about your journey, your struggles, and how we can help. as they say, the best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago. the second best time is now! if 2019 didn’t go the way you wanted it to, let us help you make 2020 different. learn more about nerd fitness coaching for the rebellion! -steve ps: seriously, jimmy is awesome. holy moly. intermittent fasting: beginner’s guide & printable calendar. should you skip breakfast!? by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 1323 comments “…tony the tiger tells us that breakfast is the most important meal of the day! it’s grrrrrreat!” this adage about breakfast has become commonplace that it’s readily and unquestionably accepted as fact. well then, what’s with the growing popularity of intermittent fasting and skipping breakfast? (tony just audibly gasped.) we have tons of online coaching clients who do intermittent fasting, and we love helping people reach their goals in whatever path suits their life. let us help you start fasting safely today! learn more: in this ultimate guide to intermitting fasting, i’ll teach you everything about the science of fasting and what results you can expect: what is intermittent fasting? how does intermittent fasting work? should i eat 6 small meals a day? should i try intermittent fasting? (6 things to consider) what are the negative effects of intermittent fasting? can i build muscle and gain weight while intermittent fasting? should i do intermittent fasting and the keto diet? does intermittent fasting have different effects on men and women? top 6 questions about intermittent fasting. 8 tips and tricks for fasting. intermittent fasting: next steps. download our intermittent fasting plan. we have also have a fun intermittent fasting plan you can use to plan out your next few weeks of eating! join the rebellion – our online community – and i’ll send you our fasting guide free: download a free intermittent fasting guide and worksheet! complete outline of the intermittent fasting protocol worksheets for tracking when you eat and how long you fasted continue reading → how to build your own workout routine: plans, schedules, and exercises by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 401 comments i get multiple emails and messages per day asking: “steve, what should i do for a workout?” well, partner, today is your lucky day. i’m gonna help build you a custom workout program, step-by-step! after all, a workout should be developed around a person’s age, goals, nutritional strategy, free time, etc. not only that, but it’s easy to overcomplicate this process – there are an infinite number of exercises, sets, reps, and programs to choose from. now, if you’re somebody that wants to skip all of that, and just want to be told what exactly to do: we build customized workouts for our online coaching clients and would love to have you. we get to know your story and struggles, your goals, and your lifestyle, and develop a workout plan that fits your schedule. want a customized workout plan you’ll actually do? learn more: now, if you’re more of a “figure this stuff out on my own” kind of person – we’re going to dig into how to build your own workout plan today! we’ve also created a free resource for folks who want to build their own workout but would love some more specific direction and instruction. you can download our free guide, strength training 101: everything you need to know, which covers all of this stuff in a single guide: download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. okay! are you ready to start building your own routine and want to know how its done? great! let’s do this: step #1: determine your “get in shape” situation! step #2: “what exercises should i do to lose weight (or build muscle)?” step #3: “how many sets and reps should i do per exercise?” step #4: “how long should i wait between sets?” step #5: “how much weight should i lift?” step #6: “how long should i exercise for?“ step #7: how to create supersets and circuit training workouts. step #8: “how many days per week should i train?” step #9: how to record your workouts and progress. “steve, just build a workout for me!” continue reading → 5 best strength training workout routines for beginners (home & gym) by staci ardison • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 110 comments want to get strong like this smurf but don’t how to start? in this beginner’s guide to strength training (part of our strength 101 series), you’ll have both the confidence to start getting strong with resistance training and a plan to follow. these are the exact strategies we use with our online coaching clients to help them start strength training, and i’m excited to cover everything you need. let us help you start strength training! learn more: we’ll be digging into the following: how do i start strength training or resistance training? which strength training program is right for me? 5 best strength training workouts for beginners. how much weight should i lift? the 9 best strength training exercises. how to know you’re doing an exercise properly (form checks) strength training for weight loss. “just tell me what strength program i should do.” by the way, we’ve combined this article along with the rest of our strength articles into a “strength training 101: everything you need to know” guide. grab it free when you join the rebellion by putting your email in the box below. download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. continue reading → the ultimate skinny guy’s guide to bulking up fast: how to bulk like the hulk by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 212 comments want to go from a skinny guy to building muscle quickly? i got you. i’ve spent my entire adult life trying to pack on muscle, and after years and years of trial and error, i finally cracked the code. today, i share that code with you! this is a topic that is near and dear to me, because i’ve spent my life devoted to this stuff: these are the exact tactics i’ve used, and the same strategies we use with our online coaching clients. our coaching program helps people bulk up quickly. learn how: this free guide is gonna get you started off on the right foot! here’s what we’ll cover in this ultimate guide (click to jump to that section): intro: how i bulked up after years of struggling as a skinny guy. nutrition: the most important thing for putting on muscle (your diet). what foods should i eat to bulk up? what are the best bulk up strategies? what supplements should i take to bulk up and build muscle? strength training: how to grow bigger muscles (get stronger). skinny guy workout plans for bulking up. can bodyweight training help you bulk up? i am skinny fat: should i gain weight or lose weight first? recovery, tips and tricks, next step: proper sleep and rest for putting on muscle. faq for skinny guys trying to bulk up. more resources for skinny guys looking to bulk up. continue reading → 6 beginner gym workouts: how to work out in a gym the right way! by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 76 comments welcome to the ultimate beginner’s guide to the gym! as part of our strength 101 series, this guide will dive deep into everything you need to know about working out properly in a gym. by the time you finish reading, you’ll never have to wonder “what should i do in the gym?” i bet i also make you laugh once or twice with bad jokes or perfect gifs. we’ve helped thousands of online coaching clients build confidence and start strength training in the gym, so i worked with our coaches to create today’s ultimate beginner gym guide! not confident at the gym? bring a fitness yoda in your pocket with the nerd fitness coaching app: okay, time to start working out. let’s hit the gym and explore the following: scared to work out in a gym? read this first. how often should i go to the gym? level 1 gym workout: your first day in the gym. level 2 gym workout: cardio cadet. level 3 gym workout: bodyweight brigade. level 4 gym workout: dumbbell division. level 5 gym workout: barbell battalion. level 6 gym workout: gym class hero. gym etiquette: tips and tricks. how to build the gym habit. continue reading → how to gain weight quickly: 12 tips on what to eat & how to train by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 335 comments so you want to gain weight fast (and safely)? you’ve come to the right place, because this is what we do! this guide covers the exact weight gain strategies i’ve used to go from my “before” (on the left above) to reach my “after” (on the right above). believe it or not, that “before” photo is me after a decade of strength training and trying to get bigger. it’s the stuff in this guide that finally allowed me to actually get results (the after). it’s also exactly how we help our online coaching clients: nutritional guidance and workout plans that line up with their goals. we’ll help clients gain weight quickly and safely. learn more: oh, and if you sign up in any of the yellow email boxes throughout, you can download our “gain weight and build muscle” shopping list and cheat sheet to hang on your fridge! download our free skinny guy’s guide to putting on muscle! enter your email below to download now the nerd fitness "get bigger" shopping list bulk like the hulk with our rules for getting bigger let’s start putting on weight right now. these are the 12 lessons i wish i knew when i started trying to get bigger (click to jump right to that lesson): nutrition how to eat to gain weight. what foods should i eat to gain weight? how much protein do i need to gain weight? how many carbs and fats should i eat to gain weight? how fast can i gain weight and get bigger? strength training what exercises are best for weight gain? how to get stronger and build muscle. how many days should i exercise to gain weight? recovery how much sleep should i get to gain weight? should i do cardio while trying to gain weight? can you build muscle without gaining fat? gain weight, get bigger and supercharge your results. continue reading → how fast can i build muscle naturally? a step-by-step guide to building muscle quickly by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 161 comments there’s a lot of false information out there on “building muscle fast.” there’s also a lot of companies making money selling useless supplements, many of them promising “toned” muscle within weeks. these two things are not a coincidence. today, we’ll provide the truth you so rightly deserve: how fast can i build muscle naturally? how fast can a beginner gain muscle? (initial gains) how do you make your muscles grow faster? (strength training 101) should i worry about getting bulky? this will help you separate fact from fiction on building muscle when training naturally. make no mistake about it, this stuff isn’t easy. otherwise you wouldn’t be reading about it on the internet! if you’re somebody that’s worried about wasting time, or you want to have an expert hand craft a workout and nutrition program that’s based on your current situation, consider checking out our really popular 1-on-1 online training program! i’ve been training with an online coach since 2015 and it has been the biggest boost for me in the world. want a custom muscle building plan? learn more here: alright, onto “how much muscle can i build naturally?” continue reading → warm up properly: the 15 best dynamic warm up exercises & routines to prevent injury by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 124 comments today, you’re gonna learn all about the importance of warming up, and how to warm up with specific video routines! in this guide we’ll cover the following (click to go to that section): stretch before working out? no. warm up instead. beginner dynamic warm-up exercises and video advanced dynamic warm-up exercises and video 15 quick dynamic warm up exercises to prevent injury this stuff is so important because getting injured sucks. and every single day i watch people wander into the gym, immediately lie down on a bench, and start cranking out their workout with a heavy weight within seconds. this makes me weep for humanity. these people are just waiting to get injured. they’re essentially playing with dynamite (also not recommended). so you’re reading the right article. if you have questions about how to warm up, i bet you have a lot of other questions about how to train correctly! wouldn’t it be cool if you had a tiny yoda who travels with you anywhere in the world to answer questions on warming up, lifting correctly, and proper nutrition? if so, check out uber popular 1-on-1 coaching program! our certified instructors help busy people like you lose weight, gain muscle, and level up their lives, and we’d love to have you if you’re interested! get in shape safely and actually reach your goals! learn more about our online coaching program continue reading → how many sets and reps should i do? (building the correct workout plan) by steve kamb • last updated: january 1, 2020 • 61 comments if you’ve ever asked yourself “am i doing too little or too many reps and sets?” then this guide is for you. this article is part of our strength 101 series, and we’ll show you exactly how to determine the number of repetitions and sets for specific exercises, so you can build your own workout routine. it sounds easy, but depending on your goals, the answer to “how many reps and sets should i do?” can vary greatly. we work hand-in-hand with our online coaching clients to create the correct workout program that suits their goals, needs, and available equipment never wonder how many sets and reps again! let us build a program that fits you. learn more: in today’s guide on workout programing, we’ll cover (click each to get right to that answer): how many reps should i do? how many sets should i do? how to build a workout routine. continue reading → previous view archive site signup url signup post id classic posts welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy