showshow skip to content nerd girl thoughts gaming & other geekery warframe – the game we didn’t know we needed march 20, 2020march 23, 2020 posted in uncategorized1 comment as far as video games are concerned, i’m almost scandalously open minded. there isn’t a genre i haven’t or wouldn’t try. mobile games are games. idle games are games. if you think it might be a game, i’m probably going to agree with you and ask if i can play it. my husband, however, really only likes a narrow slice of the bigger gaming pie. co-operative multiplayer is an absolute must-have, although he is less concerned whether the main focus is pve or pvp. he is happiest when there’s a need for some base skill level, but the biggest determination of player performance comes from knowledge and research. he’ll tolerate a grind, as long the majority of the grinding is “fun”. over the years, we’ve tried almost every major mmorpg that we’ve come across, and although some stuck for a considerable amount of time for him, finding a game that will actually hold his interest for the long term has been quite the challenge. it’s been awhile since we’d had anything we wanted to play together. he spent some time with wow classic, while i played eso for awhile. other than a rushed set of raid finders to get a mount just under the wire during the recently world of warcraft anniversary event, we probably hadn’t gamed together in six months or more. still, i’d been even before the talk of covid-19 and self-isolation, i had been checking out different games, hoping to find something that would draw him in. given my own self-imposed purchase restrictions, that basically meant poking at any free-to-play game that had passable to good reviews. at least for the time being, the game we settled on is warframe. in the past 10 days, i have put about 50 hours into the game, but i almost didn’t make it past the first play session. when you’re just starting out, it feels like the game is unnecessarily obtuse. if you’re unwilling to do any research outside of the game (or have a friend teach you the finer points), warframe probably isn’t for you. that said, it is ridiculously fun. i’ve really been enjoying games that do interesting things with movement lately, and the movement in warframe feels fantastic. shooting stuff is fun, melee is quite possibly even more fun, and missions are a reasonable length. if you just want to run a mission or two to blow off some steam, you can easily have a 20-30 minute play session, but there’s plenty to do to keep you online all night. despite having released seven years ago, this game had barely even hit my radar. i’d heard of it from other gaming friends, but i never thought it would be anything i’d play, but now it’s something i could see myself playing faithfully for a bit, and then going back to at some indeterminate future point. but the best part is that i’ve found something my husband and i can enjoy playing together, and we have a couple of other friends who just started playing again as well, so it’s keeping us in touch with them during this time of social isolation protocols. it turned out to be just the game we needed right now. stuck at home with nothing to play? try these itch.io titles. march 16, 2020 posted in uncategorizedleave a comment true confession – one of my mental quirks lately has been taking a close look at the “altruistic” things big businesses are doing in the face of this current crisis, and trying to figure out how exactly they expect to make a profit off whatever they’re offering. but i’m always impressed when small businesses, like indie game developers, do something generous when they have to be worried about their own livelihoods. if you’re stuck at home, and looking for something new to distract you from the panicked social media posts and the deluge of news, check out some of these games, being given away free on itch.io for a limited time. click on the images to be taken straight to the itch.io page for each game! art sqool fidel dungeon rescue far future tourism the sands of voltark quiet as a stone – download only / not claimable shuffs historia battles – rome monad i’m sure i’ve barely scratched the surface, so please let me know in the comments if you’ve found any other hidden gems. quick look – another eden: the cat beyond time and space (#mitsudamarch) march 4, 2020 posted in community game-a-long 2020, gamestuff, mobile gamesleave a comment when it comes to mobile gaming, i tend to gravitate towards very casual games, which usually leads to having half a dozen different match three or hidden object games to choose from. however, for #mitsudamarch, i downloaded something with a little more meat on its bones, and i’m really loving another eden so far. sure, it’s pretty far outside what i normally play on any platform, and i am 100% bumbling through it. i can’t tell you for certain how much time i’ve played it overall (i did poke at it when i first downloaded it last month, and i started playing it fairly regularly a couple of days early), but my iphone’s screen time setting tells me i’ve already put in almost six hours this week. i think what’s surprised me the most so far is how meaty the game feels. just about everything you do earns you chrono stones, which can be spent in the gallery of dreams to unlock more characters for your party. a full party (including backline) is only six characters deep, so it doesn’t take that long to get a full party together as a free player. the core game play is full of random encounters with simultaneous turn-based combat. it’s necessary to pre-select your party, and when you run into an enemy (or more often, a group of enemies), you can choose what each front-line party member does before activating your turn. it’s not a combat style i’ve overly familiar with, but i think it works well for a mobile game. another eden looks great, it sounds great, and once you get into the swing of things, it plays great. as with any free-to-play game, there are microtransactions, and things that can only be bought with premium currency. so far, i don’t feel like i’m at any sort of disadvantage by not spending, but i assume at some point, the story will run out, and making a purchase will be necessary to continue. at this point, that’s really just an assumption, though – so far it seems that the only things that cost to unlock are additional characters. based on the prices of chrono stones in the app, and the costs of character unlocks with free chrono stones, it looks like you can expect to spend anywhere from $2.40 to $5 to unlock a single premium character. overall, this is a nifty little package of fun, and i’m grateful to the folks at the community game along for #mitsudamarch, because i never would have discovered this little mobile gaming gem otherwise. nerd girl goals – march 2020 march 1, 2020 posted in uncategorizedleave a comment gaming play to satisfaction for me, saying “play to satisfaction” gives me explicit permission to drop a game that’s not working for me, but also to grind away for nerd points if i’m really loving something. i’m trying to make it a policy for myself that i will always play to satisfaction – no more, no less. ten games to tackle in 2020 going to keep plugging along at far cry: primal. #mitsudamarch – community game along i got ahead of myself a little and started playing another eden: the cat beyond time and space on my iphone already. i was surprised how good it looked for a mobile game, and since the theme this month is a composer, i made sure to leave the sound on, and yup, the music is pretty damn great. this is a free game, and yes, you can spend money in it, but it’s super playable without any financial investment and i have yet to see an ad. if you’re struggling to find something to play for #mitsudamarch, here’s your no-spend option. i wasn’t entirely surprised that i didn’t have anything in my library to play this month, but i still wanted to participate. i do get the impression that this game is basically endless, so i don’t expect to do anything that even resembles completion, and that’s okay with me. other gamestuff this month, i am expecting to lose a lot of time to things that keep me away from my computer, so that probably means i will spend twice as much time gaming as i have been lately. since portal has a super-short playtime, i’m going to put it here and see if #maybeinmarch is an actual thing i will do. i listed xbox game pass as my subscription for the month, but i have no idea when (if?) i’ll actually reactivate it. yes, there are games there i want to play – a bunch of which i’ve actually even installed – but i also don’t see the point in putting money down until i’m actually ready to play something. this will come back to bite me at some point when the subscription price goes up. i don’t think i’m really going to plan anything more intensive this month, because i’d really like to make a dent in my ten games list, even though i have no idea which one i’m going to tackle next. in review – february 2020 february 29, 2020february 29, 2020 posted in nerd girl goals, the nope listleave a comment low spend 2020 despite spending a couple of dollars mindlessly, i didn’t just throw in the towel. however, it did lead to me thinking more about what i’m trying to accomplish, and making a small revision to the plan. sure, some of it is about spending less money, but mostly, it’s about spending less money on things i’m just not using. there’s a huge difference with how i treat pc games and how i treat mobile games. when i’m looking for something new for my phone or tablet, i usually select something that’s a free download, and if i really like it, then i’ll spend money on it, either by purchasing it outright, purchasing a “remove ads” option, or spending an equivalent amount on microtransactions that i would consider paying for a game. as i see it, i only make mobile purchases when i’ve already played and enjoyed a game, and i’d like to continue doing so. since my health often keeps me from being upright at my computer for long periods of time, and let’s be fair – mobile games are frequently not endlessly replayable, i’m going to allot myself a $10 per month budget that i can only spend on tablet or phone games. otherwise, though, it wasn’t a bad month for testing my resolve. when a few things showed up that i wanted in a fanatical bundle, i managed to trade some old keys for them instead of buying the bundle, and getting more keys i wasn’t going to use. although the all star bundle #12 was a fantastic value, i only wanted the testament of sherlock holmes and tales from candlekeep from it. most of the temptations this month came more from a desire to buy than a desire to own, but a few things did get added to the wishlist, two of which aren’t even out yet. for the second month in a row, i didn’t use my provision for a paid mmo subscription, and i also didn’t renew my xbox game pass this month, so as far as non-mobile gaming was concerned, i played games i owned, or that were available with my (gifted to me) utomik sub. the nope list dark asylum: mystery adventure – tried it out on utomik, and it felt very very much like a mobile game with timers and lives and that’s just not what i want in a hidden object game at all. tiny force deluxe – i didn’t hate it. i mean, it’s fun to toss your little guys into the enemy little guys and watch them all bounce all over the place. but i didn’t find it particularly engaging either. community game along – #datingsimonth i really thought i’d enjoy this one more than i did, but i did manage to complete it. i also did a full write up here. i feel like my biggest complaint – the need to replay to get the whole story – is a “feature” of the genre, and not specific to purrfect date. however for someone like me, who likes my stories to wrap up tidily in the end, it made me hesitant to invest my time in other dating sims. i often struggle with completing a game once, never mind multiple times. ten games to tackle in 2020 on that note, i’m starting to worry that this was way over-ambitious of me. of course, that’s also the reason i wanted to do this – it’s so hard for me to set aside dozens to hundreds of hours to play a game, no matter how awesome it might be. i didn’t stop playing far cry: primal because i wasn’t enjoying it. but once i took a week or so off, it seemed less pressing to go back to it. there’s always other things i want to check out. after a whopping six-week hiatus, i was pleasantly surprised to find that i didn’t feel an overwhelming need to restart the whole game. sure, i forgot almost all of the key binds for the game, but otherwise, i didn’t find it particularly hard to get back into. i am, however, finding all the map markers a little bit overwhelming. i’ve decided for the time being to focus primarily on capturing outposts and bonfires, and doing major quests when i stumble across them. i already know that i’m not going to want to be bothered with finding all the collectibles and such. even if i put aside some time tonight to play, and i can get a decent session in without the game crashing, i might get 6 hours in for february. other pc gaming cryofall kept me logging in for several days, but mostly, i played things that were super casual. i somehow managed to play the third snark busters game first, and i found it rather enjoyable. going back to the first in the series was a little jarring, and if i’m totally honest, a whole lot less fun. they’re hidden object / adventure game hybrids with utterly forgettable stories and a neat quirk with mirrors. pickers is something i’d dabbled in before, but never finished. i sat down one evening and just played through the 30 day campaign and really enjoyed it. it’s something i might play again down the line – there’s no real story to it other than “find the good stuff & make the money”, but it was a fun little challenge, and a good way to spend three or so hours. mobile gaming this month was rough for me in a lot of ways. there were a couple of days i barely got out of bed. there were many others that i was up, but only got as far as the couch. and on these days, being able to play something on my phone or tablet was a lifesaver. the surprise “must have” mobile game for me this month was bitlife. it’s fascinating and appalling, and many times, it’s just plain wrong. so far, i have mostly been playing it with an eye towards getting a “win” (a successful happy life), but i expect it won’t be long until i feel like exploring the seedier side of this life sim. a one-time payment of $4.99 unlocked all its features and got rid of ads. goodreads challenge (8/36) in anticipation of watching netflix’s locke & key, i decided to run through the graphic novel series via kindle unlimited. this was great for the first five volumes. the main story has one more collection, but i decided against buying just the last book, which wasn’t available to borrow, and instead decided to just read some summaries online. i suspect this wasn’t the best of decisions, but i couldn’t justify the expense for a digital book i’d likely only read once. i also hunted down some used physical copies of some of my all-time favorite books, and ordered the newest novel by my favorite author that no one has ever heard of, so i have those to look forward to. the smolder scrolls online – #datingsimonth february 14, 2020 posted in community game-a-long 2020, gamestuffleave a comment oh, lordy. zenimax has really done it this time. if you’ve played through pretty much any of the elder scrolls online base game content, you’ve likely run into razum-dar, naryu, or darien (depending on your faction). at least for the moment, you can try to romance the character of your choice in a super-short dating sim available on the elder scrolls online website. i have no idea how long the game is going to be around, but you can absolutely play it a matter of minutes per character, so if you’ve ever daydreamed about one of these eso heart throbs, now is your chance. 5 fandom friday: female friendships february 14, 2020 posted in fandom friday, tv / moviesleave a comment i spotted this topic on nerdy by nature and hello. it’s b. and decided to take my own swipe at it. with so many movies and television shows either focusing on a romantic relationship or dude-ships, really fantastic girl buddies really light up the screens. five: garcia, emily and jj – criminal minds going a little off track here starting out with a trio, but let’s be real, these ladies were at their peak when they were all together. my favorite opener from the entire series will always be the episode where some random dude hits on emily at a bar, and tries to pick them up by telling them he works at the fbi. this trio very quickly puts him in his place, showing their own badges after he tells them “it’s classified”, and then they share a laugh, and you know these characters feel such incredible affection for each other. four: ruth and bettina – six feet under despite the fact that kathy bates’s bettina only appears in 10 of the 63 episodes of six feet under, she might have been the very best part of ruth’s storylines over five seasons. when ruth and bettina are together, they both light up, and their wildly different personalities complement each other perfectly. three: liz and maria, roswell sure, roswell was a love story first, and sci-fi thriller second, but i would argue that it’s also a high school bestie fest. every girl should have a friend who will help her hide the fact that her boyfriend is an alien. two: cece and hillary – beaches for women of a certain age, beaches was probably our first glance into friendship that lasts a lifetime. not only was it oh-so-precious, it was also very real – cece and hillary drift apart and crash back together, but they always love each other with everything they have to give. one: meredith and cristina – grey’s anatomy despite their soap-opera lives, these two are squad goals, and a big part of the reason i watched grey’s for as long as i did. the relationship between these two is often so raw, but it’s so very very important. i hope everyone is lucky enough to have a person like meredith or cristina (depending on which one you personally identify with more). have a favorite pair (or trio) of gal pals? tell me all about it in the comments or post your own fandom friday. posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 14 next page follow nerd girl thoughts on wordpress.com categories about me (3) books (1) community game-a-long 2020 (6) demos (4) developer appreciation week (4) e-sportsball (1) fandom friday (1) from the bargain bin (1) game over (reviews) (6) gamestuff (35) low spend 2020 (4) magic: the gathering (1) mobile games (3) music (1) nerd girl goals (12) nerd girl problems (9) nostalgia goggles (3) poetry (1) q&a (1) quick look (9) reading (2) real life (4) spotify (1) subscription gaming (5) the nope list (5) tv / movies (2) uncategorized (5) what i'm playing wednesday (10) world of warcraft (2) youtube (1) archives march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 blog at wordpress.com. nerd girl thoughts create your website at wordpress.comget started nerd girl thoughts blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy