nerdwallet logo nerdwallet logo log injoin credit cards credit cards best ofbest credit cards of 2020best rewards cardsbest cash back cardsbest travel cardsbest balance transfer cardsbest 0% apr cardsbest student cardsbest cards for bad credit compare cardscompare card offersside-by-side comparisonsget a card recommendationrewards comparison tool0% apr savings toolbalance transfer tool reviewscredit card reviewsrewards programssign-up bonuses read & learncredit cards 101pick the best credit cardboost your approval oddsbalance transfers 101credit card debt studyrange of credit scoreshow to build creditdebt calculatorcredit building community banking banking best ofbest savings accountsbest checking accountsbest bonuses & promotionsbest money market accountsbest cd ratesbest banks compare accountssavings accountschecking accountscd ratesmoney market accountssee all interest rates reviewsmarcus by goldman sachsamerican expressbarclayssee all bank reviews read & learnhow to open a bank accountsavings accounts 101checking accounts 101cds 101overdraft fees 101 investing investing best ofbest brokers for stocksbest brokers for beginnersbest roth ira providersbest ira providersbest robo-advisorsbest for active tradingbest for options trading reviewsmerrill edgetd ameritradeinteractive brokerse*tradewealthfrontbettermentzacks traderobinhood popular toolscompare online brokeragesretirement calculatorroth ira calculator401(k) savings calculatorcalculate my net worthcapital gains tax calculatorfederal tax calculator guideshow to buy stockshow to choose a financial advisoropening a brokerage accounthow much to save for retirementwhat is an ira?roth ira guide401(k) rollover guide mortgages mortgages best ofbest mortgage lenders of 2020best lenders for first-time buyersbest online lendersbest fha lendersbest va lendersbest for low down paymentbest refinance lendersbest low credit lenders comparemortgage ratespreapproval lenderscash-out refinance rates30-year fixed ratesrefinance rates15-year fixed rates5/1 arm ratesfha mortgage rates calculatorsmortgage calculatoramortization calculatorhow much house can i afford?how much down payment?va loan calculatorrefinance calculatorcost of living calculatorcalculators read & learnestimate your home valuefirst-time homebuyer tipshomebuying: what to expectfha loansget the best mortgage raterefinancing your mortgageva home loans loans loans personalpersonal loansbad credit loansdebt consolidation loansconsolidate credit card debtupstartmarcusonemain small businesssmall business loansbad credit business loanssmall business lendershow to start a businesshow to get a business loanbusiness loan calculatormerchant cash advance calculatorsba loans studentrefinance student loansprivate student loanshow to pay for collegecomplete the fafsa student loan repayment plansstudent loan calculatorstudent loan refinance calculator autobest auto loansrefinance auto loanshow to buy a cartotal car cost calculatorlease calculatorcompare new vs used carshould i refinance? insurance insurance autocompare car insurance ratesbest car insurancecheapest car insurancecar insurance reviewscar insurance discountsbest cheap car insurancecompare the big 4 car insurers lifeterm life insurance quotesbest life insurancelife insurance reviewslife insurance calculatorrates for healthy vs. sickterm vs. wholesee all money money managing moneyhow to build a budgetbest budgeting & savings toolsbudget calculatorhow to track expensesshort- vs. long-term goalschoosing a budget systemhow to fix budgeting errorshow to handle debt ways to savehow to save moneytrick yourself into savinghow to cut the cable cordlower your cable billlower your cell phone billsave on electric billshow to save on flights making moneyhow to make moneyhow to find fast cashgovernment free moneymaking money via online surveysreal work-from-home jobs life eventshow to pay for collegecareer guidehow much does a wedding cost?parenting money tipsfinancial guide for movingplanning a vacationtravel smarter with rewardsask the community travel travel travelloyalty programsreward optimizationvacations & trip planning searchjoin or log in searchjoin advertiser disclosure nerdwallet compare, inc. licenses and disclosures last updated 2/18/20 licenses and disclosures nerdwallet compare, inc. (“we” or “us”) is a delaware corporation with its principal place of business located at 875 stevenson street, 5th floor, san francisco, california 94103. we provide information and tools related to loans and mortgages, and are currently accessible online at www.nerdwallet.com and www.nerdwallet.com/mortgages, and through our mobile app (the “sites”). certain home loan data, rates, and fees may be provided by third-party data providers including, but not limited to, mortech®, a registered trademark of zillow®. our services seek to help you find and compare lenders or products that may meet your needs. we are not a lender or underwriter. we do not take loan applications, make credit decisions, or fund or service loans. we do not enter into loan brokerage contracts with consumers, and we do not charge consumers a fee to use these services. please see nerdwallet’s terms of use for additional information. pursuant to the terms of use, by using this website and services, the disclosures and consent required under certain state laws are deemed to be provided, received, and agreed to. state licenses alabama alabama mortgage brokers license #22499 alaska alaska mortgage broker/lender license #ak1617539 arizona arizona mortgage broker license #0943917 arkansas arkansas mortgage broker license #112682 california california department of real estate, license #02039086 1651 exposition blvd., sacramento, california 95815. call center: 877-373-4542 california department of business oversight, finance lender license #60dbo-74812 colorado colorado mortgage company registration, nmls id #1617539, ph: 415-549-8913, regulated by the colorado division of real estate connecticut connecticut lead generator license #lg-1617539 disclosure to connecticut customers: lead generator only, not acting in the capacity of a mortgage loan originator, mortgage broker, mortgage correspondent lender or mortgage lender. information received will be shared with one or more third parties in connection with your residential mortgage loan inquiry. delaware delaware broker license #024882 district of columbia district of columbia mortgage broker license #mlb1617539 florida florida mortgage broker license #mbr2372 nerdwallet compare, inc. does not originate mortgage loans or commitments. nerdwallet compare, inc. does not guarantee acceptance into any particular loan program by any participating lender, or promise any specific loan terms or conditions. if you apply for a loan request with our participating lenders, you may receive from such lenders a loan estimate of the credit report fee, property appraisal fee, or any other third-party fees required in connection with your loan. the documentation you receive will include the terms and conditions for obtaining a refund for said fees. you are not required to purchase additional products or services from nerdwallet compare, inc. or from any person or entity suggested or recommended by nerdwallet compare, inc. however, nerdwallet compare, inc. reserves the right to approve the entity selected by you, which approval may not be unreasonably withheld. georgia georgia mortgage broker/processor license/registration #59828 idaho idaho mortgage broker/lender license #mbl-2081617539 nerdwallet compare, inc. does not act as a lender or credit provider. if your loan request is forwarded to participating lenders, the lenders will contact you with additional information and/or offers. nerdwallet compare, inc. does not distribute the products of all lenders available and therefore cannot guarantee the lowest price or best terms available in the market. nerdwallet compare, inc. provides its services to you at no cost to you. nerdwallet compare, inc. will not charge or seek fees of any kind from you. nerdwallet compare, inc. will receive fees from the participating lenders and may be paid based on fees for services, goods, or facilities performed or provided by us to the participating lenders. this agreement remains in effect only as long as you seek to use the services offered by nerdwallet compare, inc. you may discontinue this relationship at any time, without notice, at no cost or penalty to you. illinois illinois residential mortgage license #mb.6761457 indiana indiana sos loan broker license #1617539 iowa mortgage broker license #2017-0104 kansas kansas mortgage company license #mc.0025624 nerdwallet compare, inc. operates online marketplaces where individuals can learn about mortgage offerings and products and connect with mortgage professionals and financial institutions offering home loans, and is licensed with the kansas office of the state bank commissioner in accordance with the laws of the state of kansas. this license does not represent an endorsement or recommendation of the licensee’s products or services by the office of the state bank commissioner. as a consumer, you may submit a complaint or inquiry about this mortgage business by delivering a written statement to the office of the state bank commissioner, 700 sw jackson st., suite 300, topeka, kansas 66603. louisiana louisiana residential mortgage lending license nmls id #1617539 louisiana loan broker license #001363 loan brokerage agreement and disclosure statement disclosure required by louisiana law the state of louisiana does not approve or disapprove any loan brokerage contract. the information contained in this disclosure has not been verified by the state. if you have any questions, see an attorney before you sign a contract agreement. nerdwallet compare, inc. 875 stevenson st., 5th fl. san francisco, ca 94103 nerdwallet compare, inc. is a delaware corporation and was incorporated on january 20, 2017. nerdwallet compare, inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of nerdwallet, inc. and an affiliate of nerdwallet insurance services, inc., nerdwallet advisory, llc, aboutlife, inc., nerdwallet limited, and nerdwallet india private limited. nerdwallet compare, inc. began operations as a lead generator on january 20, 2017. services which may be performed: nerdwallet provides opportunities for lenders to market their loan products to consumers through a consumer-facing education and product comparison website (the “website”). the website enables consumers of the website to review information about loan products in the marketplace, perform side-by-side comparison of lending options based on price, terms, and other factors, and, at the consumer’s discretion, continue to a selected lender’s website to fill out a loan application. bond information: as required by louisiana law, this loan broker has secured a bond by hartford fire insurance company, 690 asylum avenue, hartford, ct 06111, a surety authorized to do business in this state. a certified copy of this bond is filed with the commissioner of financial institutions. before signing a contract with this loan broker you should check with the surety company to determine the bond’s current status. maine maine loan broker license #1617539 maine law requires that the disclosures below be provided to consumers before any contract is signed with, and before any money is paid to, a credit services organization or third parties. written agreement or contract please print out this information and save it for your records. you consent, acknowledge and agree that you have read and received a copy of this disclosure to consumer. nerdwallet compare, inc. will not act as your lender or credit provider. nerdwallet compare, inc. provides your loan request to our lenders and our lenders will contact you with their conditional loan offers. while we seek to help you meet your financial needs, we do not distribute the products of all lenders or investors in the market and cannot guarantee the lowest price or best terms available in the market. nerdwallet compare, inc. provides mortgage information at no cost to you. nerdwallet compare, inc. will not charge or seek fees of any kind from you. nerdwallet compare, inc. receives fees from lenders and may be paid by the lender based on services, goods or facilities performed or provided by us to the lender. this agreement remains in effect only as long as you seek to use the services offered by nerdwallet compare, inc. you may discontinue this relationship at any time, without notice, at no cost or penalty to you. it is important that you read and understand all contracts related to any credit services you obtain. it is also important for you to retain a copy for your records. escrowing of consumer funds nerdwallet compare, inc. does not accept any fees from the consumer, including third-party fees. consumer protection bond a consumer protection bond is on file with the state of maine. if you have a claim against our company which cannot be resolved through informal means, you may institute an action to recover your loss from that bond by filing a written complaint with the director, office of consumer credit regulation, 35 state house station, augusta, maine, 04333-0035. maryland maryland credit services business license no. 28-124 consumers have the right to review any file on the consumer maintained by any consumer reporting agency, and have the right to receive a copy of a consumer report containing all information in that file as provided under the federal fair credit reporting act (15 u.s.c. § 1681g) and md. commercial law code ann. § 14-1206. this information will be furnished free of charge by the consumer reporting agency if requested by the consumer within 30 days of receiving a notice of denial of credit as provided under the under the same federal and maryland laws. if the consumer has not been denied credit within 30 days of the request, the consumer reporting agency may not charge more than $5 for the report. consumers may also dispute the completeness or accuracy of any item maintained by the consumer reporting agency, as provided under the federal fair credit reporting act (15 u.s.c. § 1681i) and md. commercial law code ann. § 14-1208. accurately reported information may not be permanently removed from the file. the services to be provided to you by nerdwallet compare, inc. may include (a) providing educational materials regarding loan products and offers; and (b) providing a web portal that will enable you to review information about consumer loan products and offers from potential third-party lenders in the marketplace, compare lending options, and choose among available options based on price, terms, and other suitability factors. these services will be provided to you at no cost. the company does not make credit decisions and does not, and has no plans to, act as a lender, servicer, or underwriter, and will not be collecting loans. consumers have the right to file a complaint pursuant to md. commercial law code ann. § 14-1911. complaints may be filed with the maryland commissioner of financial regulation by mail at 500 n. calvert street, suite 402, baltimore, md 21202, attention: consumer services unit. nerdwallet compare, inc. has secured a bond by hartford fire insurance company, a surety authorized to do business in this state. a certified copy of this bond is filed with the commissioner of financial institutions. you may check with the surety company to determine the bond’s current status. michigan michigan 1st mortgage broker license no. fl0021059 michigan 2nd mortgage broker license no. sr0021060 minnesota minnesota residential mortgage originator license no. mn-mo-1617539 nerdwallet compare, inc. is not acting as your agent in connection with obtaining a residential mortgage loan. while nerdwallet compare, inc. will seek to assist you in meeting your financial needs, we cannot guarantee the lowest or best terms in the market. the information on this site may not be considered by any person to be an offer to enter an interest rate lock-in agreement under minnesota law. mississippi licensed by the mississippi department of banking and consumer finance as a mortgage broker license #1617539 as a borrower you are protected under the mississippi mortgage consumer protection act. complaints against a licensee may be made by contacting the: mississippi department of banking and consumer finance po box 23729 jackson, ms 39225-3729 montana montana mortgage broker license #1617539 nebraska nebraska mortgage broker license #1617539 new hampshire new hampshire mortgage broker license #22314-mbr. licensed by new hampshire banking department. new hampshire small loan license #23078-sm you or your attorney may file a complaint related to this service with the new hampshire bank commissioner. new jersey new jersey consumer lender license #1904006 new mexico new mexico mortgage loan company license north carolina north carolina mortgage broker license #b-179665 nerdwallet compare, inc. does not make mortgage loans or commitments; nerdwallet compare, inc. cannot guarantee acceptance into any particular loan program by any lender or specific loan terms or conditions. you may be required by the lender to pay an application fee to cover costs of an appraisal, credit report, or other items. the lender determines the amount of the fee. north carolina loan broker registration no. 289. as required by north carolina law, nerdwallet compare, inc. has secured a bond by hartford fire insurance company, a surety authorized to do business in north carolina. north dakota north dakota money broker license #mb103384 notice: money brokers are licensed and regulated by the department of banking and financial institutions, consumer division, 2000 shafer street, suite g, bismarck, north dakota 58501-1204. the department of banking and financial institutions has not passed on the merits of the contract and licensing does not constitute an approval of the terms or of the broker’s ability to arrange any loan. complaints regarding the services of money brokers should be directed to the department of banking and financial institutions. ohio ohio residential mortgage lending act certificate of registration #rm.804391.000 oklahoma oklahoma mortgage broker license #mb011455 oregon oregon mortgage lending license #ml-5600 oregon consumer finance license #0462-001-c nerdwallet compare, inc. is subject to the regulations and oversight of the division of financial regulation of the department of consumer business services. consumers’ inquiries or complaints may be made by calling 866-814-9710. pennsylvania pennsylvania mortgage broker license #64516 rhode island rhode island loan broker license #20173515lb south carolina nerdwallet compare, inc. south carolina-dca mortgage broker license #1617539 nmls id #1617539 south dakota south dakota foreign corporation entity #fb133700 south dakota mortgage brokerage license #mb.00051 texas texas regulated lender license #160370 texas sml mortgage company license #1617539; nerdwallet compare, inc., 805 country club drive, heath, texas 75032 consumers wishing to file a complaint against a company or a residential mortgage loan originator should complete and send a complaint form to the texas department of savings and mortgage lending, 2601 north lamar, suite 201, austin, texas 78705. complaint forms and instructions may be obtained from the department’s website at www.sml.texas.gov. a toll-free consumer hotline is available at 1-877-276-5550. the department maintains a recovery fund to make payments of certain actual out-of-pocket damages sustained by borrowers caused by acts of licensed residential mortgage loan originators. a written application for reimbursement from the recovery fund must be filed with and investigated by the department prior to the payment of a claim. for more information about the recovery fund, please consult the department’s website at www.sml.texas.gov. vermont vermont mortgage broker license #1404 mb vermont loan solicitation license #lso-1617539 disclosure to vermont customers: this is a loan solicitation only. nerdwallet compare, inc. is not a lender. information received will be shared with one or more third parties in connection with your loan inquiry. the lender may not be subject to all vermont lending laws. the lender may be subject to federal lending laws. nerdwallet compare, inc. does not take loan or mortgage applications or make credit decisions. rather, we display rates from lenders that are licensed or otherwise authorized to work in vermont. we forward your information to a lender you wish to contact so that they may contact you directly. virginia nerdwallet compare, inc., nmls id # 1617539, virginia mortgage broker license # mc-6974 washington washington mortgage broker license # mb-1617539 nerdwallet compare, inc. does not charge you a fee for services. the use of nerdwallet compare, inc.’s computerized loan comparison services are not required to obtain a residential mortgage loan. the full range of loans available may not be listed on nerdwallet compare, inc.’s lead generation system, and different terms and conditions, including lower rates, may be made available from others not listed in the system. if your loan request is forwarded to one or more participating lenders, you may receive from those lenders a good faith estimate of the settlement costs and fees as required under washington state law and a loan estimate form as required by the tila-respa integrated disclosure act. the interest rates quoted by lenders are subject to change unless and until an interest rate lock-in agreement has been made between you and the lender. the terms and conditions of lock-in agreements, including whether the lock-in fee may be refunded, if any, will be set by the lender. nerdwallet compare, inc. does not offer interest rate lock-in agreements and does not guarantee any interest rate quoted by a lender. nerdwallet compare, inc. will not collect any fees from you in connection with your loan request. all fees will be collected by and are payable to the lender. if the lender is licensed under the washington broker practices act, any fees paid by you for third-party services (such as a credit report or appraisal) may be held in a trust account, and any such moneys remaining after the payment to third-party service providers will be refunded to you. if you are unable to obtain a loan for any reason and you have paid for an appraisal, title report, or credit report in full in connection to a loan made with a lender licensed under the washington mortgage broker practices act, the lender shall give you a copy of any such document, and will transmit the originals to any other mortgage broker or lender at your direction within five (5) days of your written request. under the equal credit opportunity act (ecoa), you are entitled to receive a copy of any appraisal you have paid for. washington enforces the prohibition of unfair practices with respect to credit transactions because of race, creed, color, national origin, sex, marital status, honorably discharged veteran or military status, sexual orientation, or the presence of any sensory, mental, or physical disability. west virginia west virginia mortgage broker license #mb-36126 west virginia credit service organization registration #9a2ni wisconsin wisconsin consumer act registration, november 2018 wisconsin mortgage broker license #1617539br wyoming wyoming mortgage broker license #3063 nerdwallet compare, inc. provides mortgage services at no cost to you. nerdwallet compare, inc. will not charge or seek fees of any kind from you. this agreement remains in effect only as long as you seek to use the services offered by nerdwallet compare, inc.; you may discontinue this relationship at any time, without notice, at no cost or penalty to you. this agreement does not create an exclusive relationship. nerdwallet compare does not take mortgage applications, originate, service, or make credit decisions in connection with loans, nor does it issue commitments or lock-in agreements. nerdwallet compare, inc. will forward the information you provide to participating lenders. the lender will then conduct a preliminary review to determine your loan qualifications based on its guidelines and will contact you regarding its loan products and offers. nerdwallet compare, inc. does not distribute the products of all lenders in the market and does not guarantee that the loan terms or rates offered and made available by lenders are the best terms or lowest rates available in the market. nerdwallet compare, inc. is paid an advertising fee by lenders for the goods, facilities, and services provided by nerdwallet compare, inc. please print and retain a copy of this agreement for your records. best-of awardscredit cardsbankinginvestingmortgagesinsuranceloansshoppingutilitiestaxes aboutcompanypresscareersleadershiphelpsecurity nerdwallet compare, inc. nmls id# 1617539 nmls consumer accesslicenses and disclosures california: california finance lender loans arranged pursuant to department of business oversight finance lenders license #60dbo-74812. disclaimer: nerdwallet strives to keep its information accurate and up to date. this information may be different than what you see when you visit a financial institution, service provider or specific product’s site. all financial products, shopping products and services are presented without warranty. when evaluating offers, please review the financial institution’s terms and conditions. pre-qualified offers are not binding. if you find discrepancies with your credit score or information from your credit report, please contact transunion® directly. © 2020 nerdwallet, inc. all rights reserved terms of useprivacy policy learn about the app