skip to content twitch twitter facebook instagram youtube neri approves! games and stuff primary menu home hearthstone teamfight tactics warcraft esports irl archive guild leadership world of warcraft contact search search for: irl “i’m getting a divorce” and other ways i’ve failed at life the last time i blogged, i was on my way to an exciting holiday to bali. when over there, i accidentally dropped my phone into a puddle and it wouldn’t charge, so for the duration of the trip i was without technology. bliss! continue reading ““i’m getting a divorce” and other ways i’ve failed at life” nerifebruary 18, 2020february 18, 202010 comments irl pre-flight panic party i don’t even remember when exactly, but my bestie and i booked a girls trip to bali earlier in the year. well, i’ve blinked and now i leave for the first leg of the trip in… oh a casual nine hours time. yikes! of course, i am super excited; i’ve never been to bali before – i mean i only left the country for the … continue reading pre-flight panic party neriaugust 7, 20193 comments hearthstone twitter shares #selloutselfies for a chance at saviors of uldum packs last week i was super lucky enough to be given 50 saviors of uldum packs by blizzard anz to give away to one lucky person. never one to do things the easy way, i decided to copy the usual ‘like, follow + rt’ strat that these things usually entail on twitter, but with a twist. i also requested that competition hopefuls respond with one of … continue reading twitter shares #selloutselfies for a chance at saviors of uldum packs neriaugust 6, 2019august 6, 2019leave a comment hearthstone ‘just one more game’ is a trap last night i played a bit of ranked hearthstone for the first time in almost a month. i wish i could say i was at my prime and that i burned through the lower ranks like a pro, but it was the absolute opposite. in fact, i played like someone who had been away from the game for three years, not three weeks and it … continue reading ‘just one more game’ is a trap neriaugust 4, 2019august 4, 2019leave a comment hearthstone free real estate up for grabs on mixer the hot topic on every streamer’s lips right now is streamer royalty ninja’s unprecedented move from twitch to mixer in what is no doubt an incredibly lucrative exclusive broadcasting rights deal. there are so many questions swirling around on the internet at the moment about the move and what it means for the streaming ecosystem – will this force twitch to address discoverability and community … continue reading free real estate up for grabs on mixer neriaugust 3, 2019leave a comment irl i’m so bad at discord it hurts if you’re a blogger or an aspiring streamer, networking is such a huge part of building your audience. that means discord is too good to ignore, especially if you’re in the gaming scene. you can join as many servers as you like, or even create your own server to communicate with your own budding community at no cost! i have used discord to get video … continue reading i’m so bad at discord it hurts neriaugust 2, 2019august 2, 201910 comments hearthstone people are breaking up with hearthstone whether it’s unhappiness with a stale meta, frustration with the new esports structure or simply the allure of the fresh new genre currently taking over twitch, there is no denying that people keep breaking up with hearthstone. viewership is down and twitlongers like this one by talented streamer and competitor tvzgames keep popping up, and they’re usually followed with a flood of comments from players … continue reading people are breaking up with hearthstone neriaugust 1, 2019august 2, 2019leave a comment irl i’m back it’s funny how one day you can publish a blog post without realising that it will be your last, huh? there was no grand “i’m leaving!” post or anything, i just… stopped? i guess i probably fell out of love with world of warcraft or got too focused on the my other blog, but whatever it was, it meant i hit publish on this post … continue reading i’m back nerijuly 29, 2019august 2, 20197 comments archive, world of warcraft a not-so-saintly priest tier twist you didn’t really think i would miss an opportunity to smite garrosh in the face, did you? i’ve even dressed up my priest for the occasion. i reckon even the hotness that is lor’themar theron would approve of my battle garments (though my mother most certainly wouldn’t). presenting the “i will never be as amazing at naming ‘mogs as prinnie” bastardisation of vestments of ternion glory: … continue reading a not-so-saintly priest tier twist nerioctober 17, 2013july 20, 201912 comments archive, world of warcraft some love for my under-appreciated mage there are only a special few who know that i have a mage. she was born out of a strange desire to have a character on an rp server who would follow in the footsteps of harrison jones and dedicate her life to archaeology (it’s rude to laugh, you know). i was trying to bring this weird fantasy to life when the scroll of resurrection … continue reading some love for my under-appreciated mage neriseptember 10, 2013july 17, 20192 comments posts navigation older posts sidebar my tweets top posts & pages follow neri approves! on wordpress.com enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 3,576 other followers follow twitch twitter facebook instagram youtube blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy