instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "netflix" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: netflix rebecca 2 min read december 11, 2018 no reply the cheesy holiday movies you want to watch entertainment i’ve watched many holiday romances and have selected my current favourites so you don’t have to watch the really terrible ones. you’re welcome. a christmas prince sure, the sequel was just released, and it was cute, but nothing can compare to the original. basically, a reporter pretends to be a nanny for the prince’s sister so she can get some scoop but then falls for the prince. of course. where to watch: netflix mistletoe inn a romance writer (yesssss) goes on a retreat to help get inspiration to finish her book at the most gorgeous location possible (which also was the place where peter and lara jean from to all the boys i’ve loved before had their hot tub scene). while there, a fellow writer helps her with her writing process, and her feelings (hahahaha i’m loving this) but there’s more to his story, of course. where to watch: hallmark/w network the spirit of christmas i mean, the basic premise is that an old holiday home needs to be sold and a workaholic lawyer comes to get it done. what she doesn’t expect is for the home to be haunted by a handsome spirit, who she can see and talk to, and who’s death is questionable. and before you ask – yes, he’s legit a ghost. and yes, it all works out. let sensibility be set aside because this one was a favourite. also, there’s a scene where i question how cold the snow actually is. where to watch: it’s an older hallmark movie. no idea where to find it now, but please let me know if catch it so i can rewatch. the holiday calendar a photographer dreams of owning her own studio but feels stuck in her job. meanwhile, it seems christmas luck is on her side when she begins to date a far-to-perfect guy, while her grandpa’s magical advent calendar is predicting her december. but her handsome travel blogging child hood friend comes back to town and he’s supportive and funny and awesome which creates complications. right? where to watch: netflix the princess switch ah yes, the classic ‘there’s another human that looks just like me let’s switch lives’ plot, but set around christmas and with handsome men (one of them a prince, the other a baker). it’s predictable and silly but it was fun. where to watch: netflix have a favourite? please share them in the comments because i want more to watch! i’ll update this list if another one really stands out! rebecca 1 min read december 22, 2017 no reply before you travel this holiday season, you’ll want to do this entertainment did you know you can download certain netflix movies and shows to your device before you travel? that’s right, you don’t need wifi (just enough battery power) for the kids to watch extra episodes of paw patrol when hitting the road or boarding the plane this holiday season. while a few of us in our family have to be careful about screen time in the car and on the plane (thank you, motion sickness), the kids can usually watch a movie or two on long drives and flights without much issue. that’s why it’s great that they can download their favourite ones right from netflix. they may want to check out hotel transylvania again, or monster trucks, or gnomeo and juliet. of course, they can watch their favourite shows too if they prefer. before you travel for the holidays, check your devices and load them up with enough shows or movies to help even when you are stuck at the airport because the flight is delayed, or when you need some quiet time at the hotel before packing up and hitting the road again. just don’t forget to pack the headphones for everyone. learn more on the netflix website or in your app. disclosure: i am a member of the netflix stream team and receive special perks. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read october 29, 2017 no reply google + netflix | when obsessions collide entertainment this post is in partnership with netflix canada as part of the stream team. when we started watching the crown this year, it didn’t take us long to become obsessed. we wanted to binge it. we wanted to know everything about it. we talked after each episode about what we thought and how we felt for the characters (because while this show is stunning as a period piece, the characters are the driving force). it also meant that because this is based on true events, with actual people. while fictionalized, the timelines are consistent, and we can’t help but wonder which aspects of the show were also a reality. that’s where google and wikipedia came into play. we would get lost in this world after each episode. did that fight really happen in front of the press? what year was it when her father died? is this guy a major player in their lives (oops, spoiler, because history is history!). we loved chatting about each new tidbit we would discover, or send each other links with in depth information that was interesting or maybe had been fictionalized more than the original event. with each episode, we guessed the timeline that we thought we were in, worried for the characters who we knew made a departure one way or another from our historic timeline (and we figured, most likely, the show’s). this dual way of watching a show has been of great interest to many of us. if we see something and want to know more, we can simple google it to find out more. that’s a powerful way to interact with our entertainment now. the same can happen when we watch interesting shows with the kids. what’s nice, is that when they ask a question, we can easily find out the answer! have you watched the crown? season 2 is out on december 8! _____________ disclosure: i’m part of the netflix stream team and receive perks. all opinions are my own. i wish i could blame netflix for the countless hours i lose to google 😉 rebecca 2 min read september 3, 2017 no reply you need to watch this! entertainment the title basically summarizes how i try to persuade people to watch the shows or movies i like. watch this! i almost yell. partly because i enjoy the show so much, and partly because i want other people to talk about it with me. “did you watch that episode the other night?!” or “have you seen this movie?!” is basically how i want to start every interaction when i meet people in person. “oh, i don’t watch tv” is the answer some people give me, and that’s fine, everyone spends their free time in their own way. maybe they love to read (this also cuts into my tv time) or paint or travel a lot. if they say “i don’t have time for tv” then i’m super confused. i mean, sure, sleep is great, but have you heard about the “next episode” button on netflix?! (i’m kidding. sort of.) i digress. i love recommending new shows or movies for people. you likely have facebook friends who post and want a new show to start. really, it sometimes seems tricky to narrow down which one to recommend. i mean, house of cards is captivating, the acting alone is masterclass, and of course there is rogue one and the force awakens just waiting to be watched. if you have kids, there are superhero shows and lego mini movies that will entertain everyone. there are endless possibilities. sometimes, however, i try to persuade someone to watch what i’m watching. because i want to chat about it! star wars is huge in this house. admittedly, the 8 year old hasn’t watched rogue one yet, and that’s okay because i know there would be parts that would upset her (i had those moments when i watched myself!) but if you haven’t seen it yet, even if you aren’t a star wars fan, it’s worth watching. i definitely want to persuade you! are you a huge fan but you can’t convince someone in your life to watch it with you? maybe this handy chart that netflix provided will help! if you ever want a movie or tv recommendation, hit me up on twitter or facebook. i’ll happily try to help! disclosure: i am part of the netflix stream team and receive perks for my participation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 1 min read july 16, 2017 no reply summer downtime with netflix entertainment providing kids with lots of downtime is the key to a perfect summer! with the summer here, there’s no denying that our schedules are a mix of amazing summer fun and lazy summer days. this is the kind of balance we strive for. when we are at home and not hitting the road on an adventure or visiting a local park with friends or family, our routine is a simple affair. pjs are often left on for a good chunk of the day (if they are changed out of at all), and the kids have a variety of favourite activities that they like to spend time doing. my daughter loves to create art pieces and draw. my son likes to make comic strips. they like to read, and of course they love to play video games. some days have too much screen time, but that’s all part of the summer. netflix is perfect for downtime. both my kids turn to it when they just want to chill out. my son is still obsessed with the older 90s spider-man cartoon (and i’ve only been seeing a resurgence in his watching thanks to the new movie spider-man: homecoming movie that was amazing!) and my daughter was excited to learn that just in time for the summer is the croods. there is definitely something for everyone when they turn on netflix – especially when they want those few wind-down moments. it’s no different than when i put on a show after they go to bed. what are your kids watching right now on netflix? ____________ disclosure: i am a member of the netflix stream team and receive perks as part of my partnership. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read may 31, 2017 no reply binge worthy shows on netflix entertainment add these netflix shows to your playlist hooray for the nice weather !the time when we head outside more, feel more active and energetic, visit local farmers’ markets and hit the road for some epic family road tripping. do your tv watching habits change as the nicer weather arrives? mine do, a little. with the longer days, it means we are usually outside for longer so my show watching typically begins a bit later. but that doesn’t mean we aren’t still staying up late to watch our favourite shows, and on a rainy summer day, the kids and i sometimes will marathon a few episodes of something just for fun. if you are looking for some new binge worthy shows for after the kiddos go to sleep, here are a few of my recommendations: riverdale it’s one of the newest netflix shows to grab my attention and hold it. when it first was announced, i’ll admit, i rolled my eyes. i wasn’t a huge devotee of the archie comics and the thought of a teenage twist on it seemed only okay. however, it took only one episode and i was hooked. it reminds me of the o.c. and dawson’s creek. but with a murder to solve. so good. house of cards politics and intrigue. but the good kind. this is truly a binging show. the kind where it’s 11:30 pm and andy and i look at each other to see if we should put on just one more (we usually do). i feel like everyone should be watching this, if not for the acting in this show alone. downton abbey it’s a period drama with romance and beautiful settings. the show is complete and over now (insert a dignified whimper here) so it means that you can binge and not feel the stress of waiting for a new season. you’ll just end it by grabbing a tissue. brooklyn nine nine this is one of the funniest shows on tv. it’s witty, it’s hilarious, there are long running jokes (which i greatly appreciate) and the entire cast of characters is amazing. seriously, i can’t say enough about how much i love this show. do you have a favourite binge show right now? share it with me below! disclosure: i’m part of the netflix canada stream team and receive perks as part of my partnership. all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read april 30, 2017 no reply empathy and television entertainment one of my favourite things to do is cuddle up with the kids and watch a show that we all love, and that we can discuss, or just enjoy for the fun of it. my daughter and i are big fans of the ever after high series and i can’t decide if it’s because i enjoy the story line, or if it’s because i enjoy the time that we spend watching together (i would hedge a bet that the latter is definitely the top reason.) there are shows that appeal to a lot of our emotions. media plays a role in learning about empathy according to common sense media (my go-to spot when i want to learn more about shows, movies and games that my kids want to watch). so if that’s the case, it means there are plenty of discussion opportunities in between bites of popcorn while we binge watch our favourite series. netflix put together this fun graphic with some show examples (my daughter would recommend the home show!) i have experience with tv being a conduit for important discussions. it was during an episode of arthur that i talked to my then nearly-3 year old about his father’s cancer diagnosis. the episode featured a character with cancer and how she was losing her hair (something that andy was about to go through.) i really appreciated the show in that moment, because i really wasn’t sure how to explain things well. it was quite the experience. and it went really well. tv isn’t always about brainless viewing. there are some really important messages that can come along with it. as parents, we need to sometimes identify those opportunities, and seize them. do you have a favourite that you are watching with your kids? is it leading to more conversations? disclosure: i am part of the netflix stream team and receive special perks as part of that program. all opinions are my own rebecca 2 min read april 2, 2017 no reply connecting to characters: women on netflix entertainment when watching television or movies, it’s an escape for me. i want to be transported somewhere else for 22, 49 or 120 minutes. i want to disappear into my own head and feel like i am following the compelling, dynamic characters in their fantastical worlds. maybe this is why i try to avoid movies and shows that feel all too realistic. because it really is an escape. however, it’s also nice to care about the characters and why the are enduring. it’s likely one reason that i’m drawn to interesting women on screen. think about buffy the vampire slayer or dana scully from the x-files. these were women who were so multi-faceted that it was hard not to want to watch them week after week. netflix has a lot of shows featuring women characters that we want to hug, want to laugh with, want to run away with or learn from. when my daughter watches the show home (based on the movie that we love), and she sees tip as a kind, friendly, and fun girl, i know she’s a great character for her to watch. or when we all watch a movie like anastasia and the princess and the frog, we can see that each of the women featured are looking to find themselves, and be themselves. i love being able to lose myself in a show or movie, and the characters play an important role in that. it’s no surprise that i’m drawn to women who offer not only bits of myself in them, but traits that i strive for. this is when tv is not just something mindless to do on a rainy afternoon, but something to feel. and i like that. disclosure: i am part of the netflix canada #streamteam partnership and receive perks as part of this partnership. all opinions are my own. rebecca 0 min read december 20, 2016 no reply hanging with netflix over the holidays entertainment at this point i can’t wait for the christmas vacation. i still have some loose ends to tie up, but i am ready to just enjoy all the festivities, eat until i can’t eat anymore, spend time as a family and relax. a little down time is called for. i have books to read and yes, we’ll be enjoying some cuddle time with netflix. right as the holidays are beginning (december 23) netflix is dropping a new animated show that looks like something *i* want to watch with the kids. so i told them they can’t binge without me. trollhunters looks like a buddy show, an action show, and a weird and fun fantasy show all in one. check it out and enjoy the down time! disclosure: this post is sponsored by netflix and i receive perks for being a part of the stream team rebecca 1 min read december 6, 2016 no reply the crown – your next netflix binge fest entertainment a couple of weeks ago we binged the crown. since then, when i tell people that we watched it, i’ve been told ‘it’s on my to watch list!’ and then asked how we liked it. both andy and i loved it. so forget keeping it on your watch list, go ahead and get the kids to bed and put it on. it’s amazing. the acting is impeccable (wait until the golden globe/emmy nominations are out. john lithgow will be nominated for sure. i’m thinking claire foy as well). the entire season 1 was engrossing and we found ourselves on wikipedia long after the episode aired to compare historical notes. it was fascinating. and we couldn’t help but wonder what it must be like for the royals to know this is unfolding. how close to the truth is this fiction? would the queen watch or want to know about it? would she relive some of these moments and wonder what she might do differently, if anything at all? i think about my past from time to time and while i try not to have regrets, there are many things that now me would want to tell then me. what not to worry about, how to let go of things, how to move on, maybe even trying something completely different. would she consider that as well as the crown unfolds in front of millions of people? it fascinates me! have you watched the crown yet? disclosure: i am part of the netflix canada #streamteam and receive special perks as part of my partnership. all opinions are my own. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.