login cheezburger search latest posts community i can has cheezburger? channels i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation i can has cheezburger? community login submit i can has cheezburger? favorite netflix & binge netflix has an extremely large selection, so we've narrowed it down. here are the top 10 animal binge-worthy on netflix posted by taloringer share tweet stumble pin it email 1 balto pin it via netflix okay, okay. this one is an oldie but man oh man, is it just gold! and if you haven't seen it yet well, grab some popcorn and turn off your phones because you are in for a treat. balto is actually based on true-events and off a true wolf-dog, a siberian husky in other words. the story and movie adaptation of balto is based off the events from the deadly diphtheria epidemic that was poised to sweep through nome's young people. as balto was chosen to lead the group on this mission through snowy, icy and dangerous alaska. 2 zootopia pin it via netflix okay, animals talking and basically living like humans. umm, yes! we can't be the only ones who slightly believe that animals do secretly have a city such as this... but in case you haven't seen it, get ready for a wild (and ultimately adorable) ride as a cute rabbit cop and sly fox join forces to uncover a mystery...(p.s. super kid friendly!) 3 the secret life of pets pin it via netflix ever think to yourself as you gaze into your pet's eyes/ face "hmm, wonder what they're thinking..." well, then this adorable (kid-friendly) movie is literally for anyone who has ever thought of that. well, the secret life of pets follows adorable pup max and his adventures, specifically, the adventure in which his owner adopts another dog and max well, does not handle it very gracefully to say the less! 4 don't f**k with cats pin it via netflix the title literally says it all. do not mess with cats, or you will feel the wrath of basically the world. if you haven't already binged on this, then it's pretty much purrrfect timing. but be warned this is not very "kid-friendly". based on true-events, cat lovers around the world work together to take down well, a psychopath... 5 72 cutest animals pin it via netflix ya'll... this one doesn't even need an explanation. but we'll give one anyways. take a journey with netflix and discover only (and yes we are writing only because there are for sure so many more) of the cutest animals!! 6 dogs pin it via netflix okay, guys, this one is a tear-jerker. and we mean it. but like happy tears!! take a journey with 6 different amazing, heartfelt stories all about the unbreakable bond people share with their, dogs. 7 #cats_the_mewvie pin it via netflix attention, attention all cat lovers! (yes, this includes us) this movie is purrrfect for all the cat lovers, an animal lover you name it! follow this extraordinary documentary journey of how cats became the rulers of the internet! 8 life in the doghouse pin it via netflix this dynamic duo are just saints! life in the doghouse follows danny and ron as they open up their home and rescue. their rescue, a dog sanctuary where they provide a safe home for the neediest pups (10,000 and counting!) 9 catwalk - tales from the catwalk circuit pin it via netflix in case you didn't know, cats were made for the catwalk. they are gorgeous, fluffy and downright have the cattitude. so obviously why not show it off. and why not make a docu-series binge worth out of it?? follow the journey of the well pampered and those who do the pampering, as the race for canada's competitive cat show circuit is on! 10 jurassic park - the entire collection pin it via netflix okay, okay, hear us out! yes, this binge collection idea for all the jurassic park movies doesn't exactly feature adorable floofs but, there were some cute dinosaurs, and it's just a classic oldie but goodie! take a walk down memory lane (like millions of years ago) to a park were dinosaurs exist, and ultimately... escape. but mother nature always has a way of coming full circle. repost - vote - recaption share tweet stumble pin it email movies binge netflix next on i can has cheezburger? owlkitty parody's netflix's 'the witcher' (video comments - click to show - click to hide upvoted 289 man sends his dog to the store to buy cheetos 241 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 240 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) 228 disabled cat goes around vet clinic to comfort other sick animals 201 the positive side hot today 1 ancient old shark discovered followed by entertaining twitter thread 2 woman runs into the pup she once fostered in heartwarming story 3 top 25 memes of the week - cheezburger users edition #137 4 squirrel-chasing doggo memes (29 dog memes) 5 meet the newly adopted faces of the week (22 images + 1 vid) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter