netflix party netflix party support us on patreon install netflix party a new way to watch netflix together netflix party is a new way to watch netflix with your friends online. netflix party synchronizes video playback and adds group chat to your favorite netflix shows. join over 500,000 people and use netflix party to link up with friends and host long distance movie nights and tv watch parties today! *only available on chrome browsers on desktop or laptop computers. a new way to watch netflix together netflix party is a new way to watch netflix with your friends online. netflix party synchronizes video playback and adds group chat to your favorite netflix shows. join over 1,000,000 people and use netflix party to link up with friends and host long distance movie nights and tv watch parties today! get netflix party for free! *only available on chrome browsers on desktop or laptop computers. how it works. 01 install netflix party 02 open a netflix video 03 create your party 04 join a netflix party get started. how it works. install netflix party 01 install netflix party to install netflix party, start off by clicking the "install netflix party" button on this page. once you are redirected to the chrome web store, click "add to chrome" to finish installing netflix party. 02 open a video in netflix go to netflix's website. choose any show you would like to watch and start playing the video. 03 create your party to create your party, click on the red "np" icon located next to the address bar. then click "start party" to get the party started, and share the party url to invite friends. 04 join a netflix party to join a party click on the party url, which will redirect to netflix's website. then click on the "np" button next to the address bar, and you should automatically join the party. watch right on netflix.com create netflix parties in seconds right on the netflix.com website to watch thousands of great netflix shows together with friends. watch right on netflix.com create netflix parties in seconds right on the netflix.com website to watch thousands of great netflix shows together with friends. sync netflix shows in hd always stay precisely in sync when you're watching netflix shows together. enjoy hd video playback and fast buffering in all of your netflix parties. sync netflix shows in hd always stay precisely in sync when you're watching netflix shows together. enjoy hd video quality and fast buffering in all of your netflix parties. have fun together customize your netflix party by choosing a fun user icon and nickname. upload screenshots, emojis and gifs for even more excitement! customize your netflix party customize your netflix party by choosing a fun user icon and nickname. upload screenshots, emojis and gifs for even more excitement! have questions? send us with email: [email protected] get it, its free! im ready, give me netflix party! install netflix party let us know. have questions? send us an email: [email protected]