the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop clips ozark's season 3 trailer reminds us not to mix marriage and business you may also like news netflix's ozark returns for more backwoods chicanery in march randall colburn1/08/20 10:05am io9 concept art for the forbidden planet remake that never was katharine trendacosta7/08/14 3:30am jezebel a pandemic didn't stop woody allen from finding a publisher for his memoir shannon meleromonday 10:10am more from g/o media read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba read on this is all going to last longer than we think read on what you need to know about your federal government relief check [updated] read on the truth of coronavirus might be worse than the conspiracy theories subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe randall colburn 3/05/20 9:03am • filed to:coming distractions coming distractionsozarkseason 3trailerjason batemanlaura linneynetflix 11 save screenshot: netflix (youtube) netflix’s resilient ozark, a crime drama about a chicago family’s belabored attempts to launder drug money in the boonies, returns later this month for its third season. today, the streamer dropped a tense trailer for this latest batch of episodes, which pick up six months after the events of season two. season two, we should note, was a breakout for the series, which was created by bill dubuque and mark williams and shepherded by jason bateman, who directs and produces in addition to starring. it was nominated for five emmys and took home two—julia garner scored a supporting actress nod, while bateman took home a trophy for directing—and, if the below clip is any indication, it’s high time co-star laura linney gets recognized. her huskily telling bateman’s marty that his ramblings are “such a tired, tired excuse” needs to get memed immediately. advertisement it’s the dynamic between bateman and linney’s marty and wendy, however, that will form the season’s spine. the pair are practically gnashing at each other’s throats in the trailer, which aligns with executive producer chris mundy’s previous comments about this season being “all about that marriage.” watch the trailer below. here’s a synopsis, which teases a larger role for cartel leader felix solis’ omar navarro and a new character in wendy’s brother, ben (iron fist’s tom pelphrey), who we’re sure won’t cause any trouble at all. it’s six months later, the casino is up and running, but marty and wendy are fighting for control of the family’s destiny. marty preaches keeping the status quo. aided by an alliance with helen and drug cartel leader omar navarro, wendy plots for expansion. but when wendy’s brother ben comes into town, everyone’s lives are thrown into chaos. ozark’s third season debuts in its entirety on march 27. randall colburn posts twitter randall colburn is the a.v. club's internet culture editor. he lives in chicago, occasionally writes plays, and was a talking head in best worst movie, the documentary about troll 2. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club jeremy renner offers sick world a treatment it hasn't asked for with new ep, the medicine all is resolved in an underwhelming star trek: picard finale the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? share tweet