skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged netlify it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 26 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 27, 2020 emergency website kit shared by robin rendle here’s an outstanding idea from max böck. he’s created a boilerplate project for building websites that fit within a single http request. this is extremely important for websites that contain critical information for public safety. as max writes: in cases of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. but exisiting (cms) websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic. … read article “emergency website kit” our notes / read at mxb.dev eleventy netlify static sites sponsored article march 10, 2020 make yourself a little api with netlify functions here's an example of a nice little use case for cloud functions. glitch has this great package of friendly words. say you wanted to randomly generate "happy-elephant" or "walking-tree", and you need to do that on your website in javascript. well, this package is pretty big (~200 kb), necessarily so, because it has big dictionaries of words in it. you wouldn't want to ship that to your client-side javascript when you don't have to. cloud functions are cool, and … read article “make yourself a little api with netlify functions” netlify netlify functions link february 4, 2020 how to create a headless wordpress site on the jamstack shared by geoff graham just this morning, chris shared a streamlined way to get a static site up and running with netlify. as it happens, sarah and i also wrote up a little something that expands that idea where a static site can pull content from wordpress using the rest api. using vue, nuxt, axios, and netlify, it's possible to get both the performance and continuous integration benefits of jamstack with the powerful publishing and editing features of a cms. it's really … read article “how to create a headless wordpress site on the jamstack” our notes / read at www.smashingmagazine.com jamstack netlify nuxt static sites wordpress sponsored article february 4, 2020 possibly the easiest way to run an ssg "static site generator," that is. we'll get to that in a second. netlify is a sponsor of this site (thank you very much), and i see zach leatherman has gone to work over there now. very cool. zach is the creator of eleventy, an ssg for node. one thing of the many notable things about eleventy is that you don't even have to install it if you don't want to. lemme set the stage.… read article “possibly the easiest way to run an ssg” eleventy includes netlify article january 14, 2020 netlify high-fives author chris coyier 1 comment join conversation we've got netlify as a sponsor around here again this year, which is just fantastic. big fan. our own sarah drasner is head of dx (developer experience) over there, if you hadn't heard. and if you haven't heard of netlify, well, you're in for a treat. it's a web host, but for your jamstack sites, which means it's static hosting, encouraging you to pre-build as much of your site as you can, then use javascript and apis to do whatever … read article “netlify high-fives” netlify article november 20, 2019 the future is bright, because the future is static author andy bell 3 comments go to comments i've been doing this web thing for money for 10 years this year and although i haven’t been around as long as some folks, i feel like i've seen a few cycles come and go now, so let's say that hot new things are often cynically viewed, initially. this milestone of mine has also got me in a retrospective mood, too, and the question “what about building websites has you interested this year?“ has only encouraged that. when i first … read article “the future is bright, because the future is static” eleventy jam netlify article november 6, 2019 netlify cms open authoring author chris coyier 1 comment go to comments i like the term "git-backed cms." that term works for an emerging style of cms that looks and behaves much like any other cms, with a fascinating twist: it doesn't actually store any data for you. these cmss are connected to a git repo where the data lives in flat files (e.g. markdown). you teach the cms where those files are and how they are structured. then, as you use the cms to create, edit, and delete … read article “netlify cms open authoring” cms netlify sponsored article october 22, 2019 netlify build plugins announcement netlify just dropped a new thing: build plugins. (it's in beta, so you have to request access for now.) here's my crack at explaining it, which is heavily informed from david well's announcement video. you might think of netlify as that service that makes it easy to sling up some static files from a repo and have a production site super fast. you aren't wrong. but let's step back and look at that. netlify thinks about itself as … read article “netlify build plugins announcement” build tool netlify article september 23, 2019 static first: pre-generated jamstack sites with serverless rendering as a fallback author phil hawksworth 2 comments go to comments you might be seeing the term jamstack popping up more and more frequently. i’ve been a fan of it as an approach for some time. one of the principles of jamstack is that of pre-rendering. in other words, it generates your site into a collection of static assets in advance, so that it can be served to your visitors with maximum speed and minimum overhead from a cdn or other optimized static hosting environment. but if we are going to … read article “static first: pre-generated jamstack sites with serverless rendering as a fallback” jamstack netlify netlify functions serverless sponsored article september 12, 2019 fast static sites with netlify and anymod in about 10 minutes, we'll set up a workflow that makes static sites dead simple.… read article “fast static sites with netlify and anymod” netlify static sites 1 2 3 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers