home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing never doubt the sharpness of anne-marie's marketing mind february 7, 2020 peter robinson anne-marie's new one is very clever because it's called birthday and if you consider that spotify has 271m active users, that means 742,000 users will today be celebrating their birthday and will each surely play the song twice, because people do strange things on their birthdays. and then of course tomorrow a whole new set of users will celebrate a birthday. with this in mind anne-marie is on course for 10.4m streams by the end of the week and nearly half a billion streams within a year — and that's just on spotify. (this number would be higher were it not for the strange situation of october 17 being the day nobody on the planet has a birthday — a phenomenon the world's top scientists and statisticians have described as "a rum old state of affairs". that said, the shortfall is slightly offset by people like the queen having two birthdays.) other artists have released birthday-related songs in the past but anne-marie is one of the first streaming-native acts to do it so effectively 1 and with any luck anne-marie will reap huge rewards for this brave and innovative artistic endeavour. stormzy's birthday girl, for instance, halved its potential audience↩ anne-marie previous article the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment february 7, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing the one thing better than dua lipa's physical is… february 7, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits a lengthy neil tennant interview 100 questions with sky ferreira april 30, 2265: a warning. further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled