sign in•sign up search home premium local radio recents trending music sports news talk podcasts by location by language sign in sign up start free trial download app new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area business 2016 new york press club award for best podcast! highlighting start-ups, disruptors, innovators, and other nontraditional businesses in the new york city area, the new york launch pod is a monthly podcast featuring conversations with a diverse group of entrepreneurs, who share their experiences and insights building new businesses in and around the big apple. from business strategy, to dealing with logistical and financial obstacles, to the sometimes painful growth process, the podcast covers key issues facing entrepreneurs and their businesses. hosted by hal coopersmith, a practicing attorney in new york city, the podcast is designed to address the unique opportunities and challenges presented by doing business in and new york city. for anyone who owns a business, is thinking about starting one, or is simply interested in learning more about this endlessly fascinating (and terrifying) subject, the new york launch pod is required listening. the new york launch pod is a production of bull path media, inc. www.nylaunchpod.com | @nylaunchpod about hal coopersmith: born and raised in new york city, hal coopersmith has entrepreneurship in his blood. with a mother who started a personal training company and a father who manages a law firm, it’s only natural that he would feel an affinity for risk-takers and innovators. a graduate of brown university, where he majored in economics, and fordham university school of law, hal spent several years working in advertising for fortune 500 companies before settling into his current role as an attorney. this diverse educational and professional background, plus his belief that there has never been a better time to start a business, gives him a unique perspective and ensures that his interviews are always informative, insightful and thought-provoking. 2016 new york press club award for best podcast! highlighting start-ups, disruptors, innovators, and other nontraditional businesses in the new york city area, the new york launch pod is a monthly podcast featuring conversations with a diverse group of entrepreneurs, who share their experiences and insights building new businesses in and around the big apple. from business strategy, to dealing with logistical and financial obstacles, to the sometimes painful growth process, the podcast covers key issues facing entrepreneurs and their businesses. hosted by hal coopersmith, a practicing attorney in new york city, the podcast is designed to address the unique opportunities and challenges presented by doing business in and new york city. for anyone who owns a business, is thinking about starting one, or is simply interested in learning more about this endlessly fascinating (and terrifying) subject, the new york launch pod is required listening. the new york launch pod is a production of bull path media, inc. www.nylaunchpod.com | @nylaunchpod about hal coopersmith: born and raised in new york city, hal coopersmith has entrepreneurship in his blood. with a mother who started a personal training company and a father who manages a law firm, it’s only natural that he would feel an affinity for risk-takers and innovators. a graduate of brown university, where he majored in economics, and fordham university school of law, hal spent several years working in advertising for fortune 500 companies before settling into his current role as an attorney. this diverse educational and professional background, plus his belief that there has never been a better time to start a business, gives him a unique perspective and ensures that his interviews are always informative, insightful and thought-provoking. favoriteshare more information location: ny genres: business entrepreneurship business & economics podcasts description: 2016 new york press club award for best podcast! highlighting start-ups, disruptors, innovators, and other nontraditional businesses in the new york city area, the new york launch pod is a monthly podcast featuring conversations with a diverse group of entrepreneurs, who share their experiences and insights building new businesses in and around the big apple. from business strategy, to dealing with logistical and financial obstacles, to the sometimes painful growth process, the podcast covers key issues facing entrepreneurs and their businesses. hosted by hal coopersmith, a practicing attorney in new york city, the podcast is designed to address the unique opportunities and challenges presented by doing business in and new york city. for anyone who owns a business, is thinking about starting one, or is simply interested in learning more about this endlessly fascinating (and terrifying) subject, the new york launch pod is required listening. the new york launch pod is a production of bull path media, inc. www.nylaunchpod.com | @nylaunchpod about hal coopersmith: born and raised in new york city, hal coopersmith has entrepreneurship in his blood. with a mother who started a personal training company and a father who manages a law firm, it’s only natural that he would feel an affinity for risk-takers and innovators. a graduate of brown university, where he majored in economics, and fordham university school of law, hal spent several years working in advertising for fortune 500 companies before settling into his current role as an attorney. this diverse educational and professional background, plus his belief that there has never been a better time to start a business, gives him a unique perspective and ensures that his interviews are always informative, insightful and thought-provoking. twitter: @nylaunchpod language: english website: http://www.nylaunchpod.com/ email: http://www.nylaunchpod.com/ episodes episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery 3/1/2020 more umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss her bakery located in the west village that is expanding to new locations in new york city and the washington d.c. metro area. mah-ze-dahr prides itself on the quality of its baked goods, its sustainable approach to food, and its commitment to hospitality, all in the effort to create a heritage brand. before founding mah-ze-dahr, umber worked in finance while baking “on the side”. through her work, she met... duration:00:24:42 how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur 2/1/2020 more laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur, step back onto the new york launch pod to discuss their company’s exponential growth and success in the self-care industry. back in episode 49, we learned how fur is changing the conversation around body hair care and meeting the needs of men and women who want all-natural products in their daily routine. since then, fur has doubled their sales, tripled their retail presence (including with national retailer ulta beauty) and brought... duration:00:19:22 episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo 1/1/2020 more lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their custom neon design studio that lets customers commission unique artwork for every special moment in their lives while also providing pre-made artisan items for sale. lena and sas didn’t set out to start a business that would light millenials’ instagram accounts on fire. instead the idea for name glo began when sas was searching for a neon to celebrate her nephew’s birth. sas soon... duration:00:22:02 episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good 12/1/2019 more matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his delicious new salsa company that’s spicing up the market with fresh tasting homemade recipes and sleek modern designs. matt founded the company with the insight that the $1.3 billion dollar salsa industry has remained largely unchanged, even while consumer preferences for other foods has been changing drastically. by offering consumers what he describes as “the full salsa experience” through a... duration:00:33:20 episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch 11/1/2019 more lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his boiler based technology company which is helping building owners save 20-30% on their fuel costs, reducing the city’s carbon footprint and making apartments more comfortable too! heat watch works by monitoring and calibrating boilers to make sure they’re being used efficiently through machine learning technology. with sensors in every apartment and a personal monitoring system, heat watch makes sure that... duration:00:35:17 episode 59: heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames 10/1/2019 more heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their revolutionary eyeglass company that promises to make shopping for glasses fun and headache free for kids and adults. despite recent innovations, eyeglasses have been manufactured the same way for years. and while standardized styles and sizes may work for some people, they don't work for others, especially children. however, fitz has developed a way for everyone to have... duration:00:31:58 episode 58: aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa 9/1/2019 more aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their luxury handbag company, which sells accessories for the modern woman. caraa blends quality design with functionality to create bags that look good while still meeting the needs of an active lifestyle. originally designed as the all purpose go everywhere gym bag, caraa’s early success inspired them to apply their formula to a variety of everyday needs. they now sell over fifteen different... duration:00:32:34 how you doin'? vol 6: brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon | brian berger talks about opening a store in hudson yards, adding clothing lines, and continued growth of the brand 8/15/2019 more brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon, steps back on to the new york launch pod to discuss his company’s continued growth and success. back in episode 33, we learned how mack weldon’s focus on unique fabrics, customer satisfaction, and innovative styles revolutionized the men’s essentials category. since then, mack weldon has added several new clothing lines, opened a store in hudson yards, and increased their advertising presence. listen to this episode to find out about how mack weldon... duration:00:33:44 episode 57: carrie o'brien & craig o'brien, co-founders of sunswell 8/1/2019 more carrie o'brien and craig o’brien the husband and wife and co-founders of sunswell, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their hamptons-inspired clothing brand, that offers items designed to look good anywhere and keep you cool at the same time. sunswell’s high quality performance fabrics and classic designs can be worn anywhere from a day at the beach to dinner at night. craig o’brien is the former vp of men’s design at vineyard vines so he knows a thing or two about the clothing... duration:00:41:21 episode 56: hannah weitzer & alli finn, co-founders of seachange collective | the organization that helps businesses, nonprofits, and government agencies fulfill their social justice missions 8/1/2019 more social justice has become something of a buzzword lately with topics including diversity, equality, and fair representation at the forefront of people’s minds. however, many businesses, nonprofits, and government agencies don’t always have the time or abilities to confront these issues head on. that’s where seachange collective comes in. seachange collective is a women-led and wbe-certified organization which conducts customized and contextualized workshops, social justice audits, and... duration:00:23:20 episode 55: jurrien swarts co-founder of stojo | the collapsible and reusable coffee cup 7/1/2019 more each year over 16 billion disposable coffee cups are thrown away, oftentimes only moments after someone finishes a coffee.when you think about how much paper and plastic there are in 16 billion coffee cups you might start recognizin each year over 16 billion disposable coffee cups are thrown away, oftentimes only moments after someone finishes a coffee. when you think about how much paper and plastic there are in 16 billion coffee cups you might start recognizing a problem. jurrien swarts... duration:00:37:08 episode 54: dr. dennis gross, founder of dr. dennis gross skincare | the story of the dermatologist who created a disruptive line of skin care products 6/1/2019 more dr. dennis gross steps on to the new york launch pod to discuss the founding of the dr. dennis gross line of skin care products. there was not much innovation in the world of skin care products in the late 90’s. according dermatologist, dr. dennis gross, the skincare industry relied heavily on the use of glycolic acid which had a harsh effect on the skin. the beauty industry even centered its marketing around how these harsh products were helpful to the skin. however, as a chemist and... duration:00:32:35 live @ lincoln center: inside brookfield’s bold plan to revitalize bleecker street with duncan mccuaig, svp of leasing at brookfield properties and dana glaeser, founder of slightly alabama 5/24/2019 more in recent years, there has been a lot of talk about the retail apocalypse due in part to noteworthy bankruptcies, massive store closings, and the unprecedented number of store vacancies across new york city. real estate giant brookfield property partners made headlines in 2018 when the firm acquired seven storefronts on vacancy-ravaged bleecker street in manhattan's greenwich village for $31.5m at a time when experts predicted a further worsening of the retail climate. since then, brookfield... duration:00:54:41 episode 53: christine strzalka and caroline strzalka, co-founders of it's by u | do it yourself subscription flowers 5/1/2019 more flowers make people happy. but in the united states, there’s been a “lost” generation of people who haven’t had flowers in their homes. maybe it’s because flowers are too expensive, they don’t last long, or are simply just a chore to bring home. enter it’s by u, a subscription flower service where you assemble the flower arrangement at home. by shipping fair-trade flowers direct from ecuador, it's by u is able to deliver premium flowers to customers in 5 days from the day they were cut as... duration:00:41:25 how you doin' vol 5: micael chad hoepnner, founder of gk training and communications on injecting technology in his business to help you communicate more effectively 4/1/2019 more michael chad hoeppner, founder of gk training and communications, steps back on to the new york launch pod to discuss how he’s been able to grow his company through the use of technology. back in episode 28, we learned a lot of the public speaking techniques that michael teaches to presidential candidates and high powered executives. but there are only so many hours in a day that any person can teach. so for his business, michael developed ways to train students on the go.in a smartphone app... duration:00:29:14 episode 52: jenny fleiss, co-founder of jetblack | rent the runway co-founder speaks about her move to jetblack and future of retail 3/1/2019 more jenny fleiss, co-founder of rent the runway, steps on to the new york launch pod to discuss her newest project as co-founder of jetblack. jetblack is a personal shopping service with the financial backing of walmart, and co-founded by jenny and marc lore (jet, quidsi/ diapers.com). designed with the busy consumer in mind, jetblack uses a combination of experts, algorithms and artificial intelligence to winnow down the sea of shopping options on the internet. consumers are able to message... duration:00:38:40 episode 51: david hall and jordan klein, co-founders of park and diamond | the collapsible bicycle helmet the size of a water bottle 2/1/2019 more bicycle sharing programs and other alternative forms of transportation are becoming more popular in urban areas, but one thing you don't see is a lot of people wearing helmets. why? because bicycle helmets are big, clunky, and no one wants to carry them around. david hall and jordan klein, co-founders of park and diamond, thought a lot about this problem after david's sister rachel was in a bicycle accident and wasn't wearing a helmet. so david and jordan sought a solution that would enable... duration:00:47:16 how you doin’? vol 4 helaine knapp, founder of cityrow: boutique fitness rowing studio with cityrow go at home, national expansion with franworth, and growing new york city presence 1/1/2019 more helaine knapp, founder of cityrow, steps back on to the new york launch pod to discuss the growth of her boutique fitness studio. since we first spoke to helaine in 2015 on episode 5, a lot has changed with cityrow and the boutique fitness world. cityrow has added a signature studio on the upper east side of manhattan, introduced an at home product called cityrow go, and is in the midst of a national expansion. there is also more competition in the boutique fitness world. today, there are... duration:00:26:36 episode 50: josh futterman, founder of parkyou!: the sharing platform designed to solve new york city's street parking problem 11/30/2018 more it is no secret that parking in new york city is a miserable experience. everyone knows this, but especially josh futterman. he's been driving and parking in new york city for 34 years. spending a lot of time battling new york city traffic and circling the blocks looking for an elusive parking spot, josh thought there had to be a better way. so josh decided to start a company to solve the problem and parkyou! was born. josh's idea is centered around the concept of bringing drivers in new... duration:00:48:06 episode 49: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur 10/31/2018 more what's it like to invent a beauty category? in 2014, laura schubert had the idea that not everyone wanted to remove their body and pubic hair. maybe they wanted to groom it. but how to approach this taboo subject? the answer was head on. laura was undeterred despite being rejected multiple times when looking for a chemist to develop the product. a lot of the people laura initially called abruptly hung up because they thought her idea was a joke. in 2016, fur went from idea to reality as an... duration:00:26:39 see more try premium for 30 days live games for all nfl, mlb, nba, & nhl teams commercial-free music no display adsstart free trial sports, music, news and podcasts. hear the audio that matters most to you. listen nowsportsmusicnewspodcastsmore about uscontact uscareerspress productsupportdevices communitiesbrandsbroadcasterspodcasters © 2020 tunein, inc. all rights reserved privacytermssitemap