advertisement home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv latest headlines coronavirus royal family prince andrew world news arts headlines most read wires games my profile logout login feedback friday, mar 27th 2020 7pm 42°f 10pm 40°f 5-day forecast advertisement show ad house passes $2 trillion bailout bill with checks-for-all despite lone republican thomas massie's bid to delay and force a full-scale vote - prompting trump to rage against 'grandstander' and john kerry to call him 'masshole' gov. cuomo reveals 1,000-bed manhattan field hospital and gives a rallying call to 'kick coronavirus' a** before it peaks in 21 days' - as ny state death toll soars by 13 to 519, and nyc records one more death and 4,000 more cases to make total 25,398 meet mr. no: congressman who tried to delay $2 trillion bailout vote has voted against sanctioning north korea, giving jack nicklaus a medal - but he's made john kerry and donald trump unlikely friends over 500 members of the nypd have tested positive for coronavirus - but 3,000 more cops are reporting flu-like symptoms boeing is big winner from stimulus package as trump vows to protect the nation's largest exporter - but the company may reject money if it means giving government an equity stake 'listen to the science': obama weighs in on coronavirus during tony fauci chat with stephen curry and appears to aim his advice at donald trump how times have changed! mexican protesters block americans from crossing the border to prevent spread of coronavirus trump uses defense production act to order gm to produce ventilators after accusing car giant of price-gouging in its initial offer to fill deadly shortage 'i operate on facts.' andrew cuomo slaps down trump's claim that state won't need 40,000 ventilators 'we're on track to be the next new york': louisiana governor warns that the state 'doesn't have long' to bring pandemic under control as deaths rise by 36 to 119 in 24 hours and infections hit 2746 healthy la teen who died of septic shock and was found to have coronavirus after his death was turned away from urgent care because he didn't have insurance, mayor says one in three americans say they or a family member have lost their job, as unemployment claims soars to 3.3m countdown to chaos: mayor bill de blaiso says nyc's healthcare system could collapse in nine days as coronavirus cases in us epicenter soar by 2,000 to 25,573 and deaths hit 366 fox business network 'parts ways' with trish regan days after primetime host was put on hiatus for saying coronavirus was a 'scam to impeach trump' ireland in lockdown: pm leo varadkar says residents should stay home until at least april 12 after country reports another three coronavirus-related deaths both us aircraft carriers in the pacific are taken out of action for up to a month after sailors onboard get infected with coronavirus - giving china almost free hand in the region as pentagon raises threat level to second highest trump's approval rating goes up in wake of coronavirus crisis - but 58% of people say he was too late to start dealing with infections longtime american airlines flight attendant dies while awaiting results of coronavirus test - as colleagues fear for their lives over lack of social distancing on flights is florida the next epicenter of the coronavirus in the us? the mix of an elderly population, a shortage of tests and teens still flocking to beaches over spring break leave the sunshine state primed to become a new hotspot surgeon general says some states will still be battling coronavirus by labor day in yet another rejection of trump's 'easter' deadline how coronavirus 'deniers' are using facebook, whatsapp and youtube to spread conspiracy theories and misinformation about the deadly disease shocking video shows medical worker asking 'who is the sickest patient' in overcrowded nyc emergency room with gurneys packed in side-by-side and others forced to sit in chairs trump administration stops enforcing environmental laws that punish polluters after the epa said companies could have trouble complying during coronavirus pandemic 'nature does this every so often, it wipes us out': unrepentant lawyer maintains that we shouldn't 'tank the economy' to save old people - and his parents, in their 70s, agree previous next gov. cuomo reveals 1,000-bed manhattan field hospital and gives a rallying call to 'kick coronavirus' a** before it peaks in 21 days' - as ny state death toll soars by 13 to 519, and nyc records one more death and 4,000 more cases to make city total 25,398 the number of deaths in the state of new york went from 385 to 519 between thursday and friday there are now more than 44,000 cases of the virus in new york state including 25,573 in new york city on friday, cuomo announced a multi-stage plan to gradually build several field hospitals he says he needs president trump to sign off on it today before he can put it into action in a press conference where he addressed the national guard troops, he praised them for their courage he spoke at the javits center - where 1,000 beds have been set up in less than a week to welcome patients cuomo also told them to 'kick coronavirus a*s' and said the entire state is indebted to them the us now has more cases of the virus than italy and it is around 11 days behind its trajectory there are more than 90,000 cases of the virus in the us and more than 1,000 people have died despite president trump saying earlier this week it would be over by easter, experts predict it will last weeks coronavirus symptoms: what are they and should you see a doctor? by jennifer smith for dailymail.com published: 13:05 edt, 27 march 2020 | updated: 18:14 edt, 27 march 2020 e-mail 1.8k shares 731 view comments advertisement new york governor andrew cuomo revealed on friday that the state's coronavirus death toll was now 519, an increase of 134 in just one day, as he gave a rallying call to action to national guard to 'kick coronavirus a*s' from a new, 1,000-bed field hospital at the javits center. there are now more than 44,000 cases of infection in the state of new york. currently, 6,481 people are hospitalized and 1,583 people are in icu beds. cuomo anticipates that he will need 140,000 beds in total when the pandemic peak hits. he also needs 30,000 ventilators but only has 8,000. in new york city, 365 people had died from the virus by thursday afternoon - an increase of 177 people in a day. as of friday afternoon, there were 25,573 cases of it in the city - 4000 more cases than the previous day. one additional death was reported in new york city on friday, bringing the total to 366. on friday, gov. cuomo announced he was keeping all schools across the state closed for another two weeks, until april 15, to try to stop the virus spreading. he spoke at a press conference at the javits center, one of the field hospitals where 1,000 beds will be placed, and addressed a crowd of national guard troops. scroll down for video gov. cuomo gave a rallying call to action to national guard troops on friday at the javits center in new york city where he said there had been another 134 deaths overnight in the state of new york . in the background, hospital beds that have been set up to take in patients the troops were distanced to avoid spreading the disease. cuomo praised them for their work so far and urged them to keep going a closer view of one of the hospital rooms that has been set up in the javits center in the last week by the national guard some of the supplies include hand sanitizer and lip balm. cuomo praised the troops for putting together the hospital so quickly there are 1,000 beds in the javits center hospital. cuomo plans to add 8,000 beds in total by creating 8 field hospitals there are now 1,000 extra beds in the javits center; cuomo's other field hospitals, that are yet to be built, will add another 7,000 in new york city alone, there have been 365 deaths and there are 25,398 the number of deaths in new york state every day continues to rise. there were 134 overnight more videos 1 2 3 watch video alex trebek brings a smile to everyone's face by singing lizzo watch video dazed grizzly bear called boo emerges from hibernation watch video congresswoman refuses to yield floor during extraordinary rant watch video dr. anthony fauci discusses the coronavirus with stephen curry watch video cuomo encourages national guard to 'kick coronavirus a**' watch video fox news host complains she can't get hair and nails done amid virus watch video raven-symoné releases new ep with songs based on her life watch video reporter leaves interview after a bison walks towards him watch video pet cat lives on her own for 40 days after family gets coronavirus watch video customer accuses pharmacy staff of breaching social distancing rule watch video senate unanimously passes $2 trillion coronavirus stimulus bill watch video trump updates coronavirus response as us death toll passes 1,000 ny city and ny state numbers every day, gov. cuomo gives updated figures for ny state's total death toll and a breakdown of how many infections are in each area, in the morning. de blasio announces his own figures - of the city's death toll - later in the day. they do not always correlate, which has led to confusion in the specific numbers in both ny state and nyc. ny state death toll: 519 (as of friday afternoon, + 134 since thursday) infections: 44, 635 (as of friday afternoon, + 7,337 since thursday) ny city death toll: 366 (as of friday, an increase of 1 since thursday) infections: 25,573 (as of friday afternoon, an increase of 4,000 since thursday) he also revealed his multi-stage plan to keep the city from being overwhelmed. over the next three weeks, multiple field hospitals are to be built as they are needed to help ease the strain on the city's health system. he has another three in his sights that will be built at the campuses of cuny stony brook, cuny westchester, suny old westbury. those three and the javits center provide 4,000 additional beds. cuomo wants to build another four sites, which will add another 4,000 beds. he wants to put one in each borough of new york city - manhattan, the bronx, staten island, queens and brooklyn - and one in nassau county, suffolk county and westchester beyond the city. a potential field hospital is the marriott hotel brooklyn bridge as is the brooklyn center. the usns comfort, a navy ship with 1,000 beds, is also on its way to new york city where it will dock on monday, bringing 1,200 medical personnel with it, the latest new york figures came as; mayor bill de blasio warned nyc could be under lockdown until the end of may a new study by the university of washington medical school predicted 81,000 may die before the pandemic ends and the country could stay on lockdown until june the surgeon general warned that some states will be battling the virus in september and that it will travel through the country the us remained the country with the highest number of infections in the world with more than 90,000 new orleans emerged as the potential next 'epicenter' of the spike in deaths, he said: 'we're seeing a significant increase in deaths because the length of time people are on the ventilator is increasing. we expect that to continue to increase. 'this is a different beast, an invisible beast, an insidious beast. this is not going to be a short deployment cuomo to national guard troops 'it's bad news, it's tragic news, the worst news. but it's not unexpected news,' he said. they will go up in college campuses, hotels and exposition centers. cuomo needs the president to sign off on the plan for him to be able to put it into action. in a rallying speech to the national guard troops who will build the sites, he said on friday: 'this is a different beast, an invisible beast, an insidious beast. 'this is not going to be a short deployment where you go out for a few days work out and go home. army personnel listen to instructions while sitting a safe distance from one another at the javits center on friday the national guard will be used to help build the field hospitals around the state of new york us army and javit center personnel listen to cuomo's rousing speech on friday us army troops at the javits center in new york city on friday afternoon 'you are living a moment in history. this is one of those moments that they're going to write about, talk about, this is a moment that forges character, forges people, changes people, make them stronger, weaker, this is a moment that will change character. 'in 10 years from now you'll be talking about today to your children from grandchildren and you will shed a tear because you will remember the lives lost and faces and names and you'll remember how hard we worked and that we still lost loved ones. 'you will shed a tear and you should because it's sad but you will also be proud. 'that you showed up - when other people played it safe, you had the courage to show up and you had the skill and professionalism to make a difference and save lives. 'at the end of the day, nobody can ask any more of you. cuomo to trump - deal in facts not opinions cuomo shot back at president trump, who last night suggested he was exaggerating with his demand for 30,000 ventilators, saying that is what the data is projecting. 'i don't have a crystal ball, everybody is entitled to an opinion, but i don't operate here on opinion. i operate on facts and data and numbers and projections... all of them say you could have an apex needing about 40,000 ventilators. 'those are numbers, not "i feel, i think, i believe, i want to believe." 'make the decisions based on the data and the science - we're following the data and the science and that's what it says. i hope we don't need 30,000 ventilators. 'i hope some natural weather change happens overnight and kills the virus globally. 'that's what i hope. but that's my emotion - the numbers say you may need 30,000 ventilators,' he said. trump had said on thursday: 'governor cuomo and others they say they want 30,000 of them. thirty thousand!' trump 'think of this, you go to hospitals and they have one. and now all of a sudden everybody is asking for these vast numbers.' then trump referenced his gut instincts, as he did on a push to get the nation's economy going by easter even as health experts say social distancing must be kept in place. 'i think that a lot of things are being said that are more, i don't think certain things will materialize, a lot of equipment is being asked for but i don't think they'll need,' trump said. 'i have a feeling that a lot of the numbers that are being said in some areas are just bigger than they're going to be.' trump continued. 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators. you know, you go into major hospitals sometimes and they'll have two ventilators. and now all of a sudden they're saying, 'can we order 30,000 ventilators?'' 'that is your duty. to do what you can when you can, you will have shown skill and talent. 'you'll be there with your mind and with your heart. 'you'll serve with honor and that will give you pride. 'i know that i am proud of you. 'every time the national guard as been called out, they make every new yorker proud. 'i say we go out there today and we kick coronavirus a*s,' he said. at the start of the press conference, where he gave the national guard troops seats directly in front of him, he said: 'we are battling a deadly virus. 'is there an intrusion on life? yes. is there an intrusion on the economy? 'yes. but what's on the other side of the scale is literally saving lives and that is not rhetorical. 'that's fact,' he said. cuomo also expressed gratitude for the 62,000 healthcare workers who have volunteered since the pandemic began. he said of the city: 'new yorkers never cease to amaze me. sure, we're tough. 'to live in a place like this you have to be tough. but as tough as we are, as loving as we are. 'when someone needs something, there's no place i'd rather be than new york.' he also shot back at president trump, who last night suggested he was exaggerating with his demand for 30,000 ventilators, saying that is what the data is projecting. 'i don't have a crystal ball, everybody is entitled to an opinion, but i don't operate here on opinion. 'i operate on facts and data and numbers and projections... all of them say you could have an apex needing about 40,000 ventilators. 'those are numbers, not "i feel, i think, i believe, i want to believe." 'make the decisions based on the data and the science - we're following the data and the science and that's what it says. 'i hope we don't need 30,000 ventilators. 'i hope some natural weather change happens overnight and kills the virus globally. 'that's what i hope. but that's my emotion - the numbers say you may need 30,000 ventilators,' he said. coronavirus could kill 81,000 people in the us over the next four months even if social distancing lockdowns work - and the worst of outbreak may not subside until june, analysis finds the coronavirus pandemic could kill more than 81,000 americans over the next four months and may not subside until june, a new analysis suggests. researchers from the university of washington school of medicine predict that the number of us deaths could vary widely, ranging from as low as around 38,000 to as high as around 162,000. the number of hospitalized patients is expected to peak nationally by the second week of april, though the peak may come later in some states. some people could continue to die of the virus as late as july, although deaths should be below epidemic levels of 10 per day by june at the latest, according to the analysis. however, the team says that this is only if people follow local and federal guidelines and stay indoors. for the analysis, the team analyzed data from the local and federal government, hospital and other sources. dr christopher murray, director of the institute for health metrics and evaluation at the university of washington, said the variance in deaths is due in part to disparate rates of the spread of the virus in different regions. the latest data shows how the us has overtaken italy with the number of new cases per day since march 19 for example, the virus had spread quite rapidly in new york city but has been slow in several midwest and mountain states. the duration of the virus means there may be a need for social distancing measures for longer than initially expected, dr murray, who led the study said. however, he added that the country may eventually be able relax restrictions if it can more effectively test and quarantine the sick. the analysis also highlights the strain that will be placed on hospitals. at the epidemic's peak, sick patients could exceed the number of available hospital beds by 64,000 and could require the use of around 20,000 ventilators. ventilators are already running short in hard-hit places like new york city. governor andrew cuomo has said that new york state needs 30,000. the virus is spreading more slowly in california, which could mean that peak cases there will come later in april and social distancing measures will need to be extended in the state for longer, murray said. louisiana and georgia are predicted to see high rates of contagion and could see a particularly high burden on their local healthcare systems, he added. share or comment on this article: new york state coronavirus death toll soars to 519 e-mail 1.8k shares i say close the borders and issue a no travel ban ... by secondhelping 372 add comment comments 706 share what you think newest oldest best rated worst rated view all the comments below have not been moderated. view all the views expressed in the contents above are those of our users and do not necessarily reflect the views of mailonline. add your comment enter your comment post comment to your facebook timeline what's this? by posting your comment you agree to our house rules. submit comment clear close do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline? your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual. no yes close do you want to automatically post your mailonline comments to your facebook timeline? your comment will be posted to mailonline as usual we will automatically post your comment and a link to the news story to your facebook timeline at the same time it is posted on mailonline. to do this we will link your mailonline account with your facebook account. we’ll ask you to confirm this for your first post to facebook. you can choose on each post whether you would like it to be posted to facebook. your details from facebook will be used to provide you with tailored content, marketing and ads in line with our privacy policy. more top stories new articleshometop share back to top home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv sitemap archive video archive topics index mobile apps screensaver rss text-based site reader prints our papers top of page daily mail mail on sunday this is money metro jobsite mail travel zoopla.co.uk prime location published by associated newspapers ltd part of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group dmg media contact us how to complain leadership team advertise with us contributors work with us terms do not sell my info privacy policy & cookies advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement