skip to main content u.s. department of health & human services search the nih website nih employee intranet staff directory en español site menu home health information health info lines health services locator healthcare.gov nih clinical research trials and you talking to your doctor science education resources community resources clear health a–z publications list more » search health topics quick links medlineplus health info nih news in health wellness toolkits grants & funding grants home page find funding due dates how to apply about grants policy & compliance grants news/blog contracts loan repayment more » search the nih guide quick links report era commons nih common fund news & events news releases digital media kits media resources media contacts images and b-roll events social media more » quick links nih news in health nih research matters nih record research & training medical research initiatives science highlights science education research in nih labs & clinics training opportunities library resources research resources clinical research resources safety, regulation and guidance more » quick links pubmed stem cell information oppnet nidb nih blueprint for neuroscience research institutes at nih list of institutes, centers & offices nih office of the director directors of nih institutes and centers nih institute and center contact information more » quick links nci nei nhlbi nhgri nia niaaa niaid niams nibib nichd nidcd nidcr niddk nida niehs nigms nimh nimhd ninds ninr nlm cc cit csr fic ncats nccih od about nih who we are what we do jobs at nih visitor information frequently asked questions contact us more » quick links the nih director the nih almanac nih…turning discovery into health® impact of nih research science, health, and public trust covid-19 is an emerging, rapidly evolving situation. get the latest public health information from cdc: https://www.coronavirus.gov get the latest research information from nih: https://www.nih.gov/coronavirus you are here home » news & events » news releases news releases news release tuesday, march 17, 2020 new coronavirus stable for hours on surfaces sars-cov-2 stability similar to original sars virus. this scanning electron microscope image shows sars-cov-2 (yellow)—also known as 2019-ncov, the virus that causes covid-19—isolated from a patient in the u.s., emerging from the surface of cells (blue/pink) cultured in the lab.niaid-rml what the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) is stable for several hours to days in aerosols and on surfaces, according to a new study from national institutes of health, cdc, ucla and princeton university scientists in the new england journal of medicine. the scientists found that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2) was detectable in aerosols for up to three hours, up to four hours on copper, up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to two to three days on plastic and stainless steel. the results provide key information about the stability of sars-cov-2, which causes covid-19 disease, and suggests that people may acquire the virus through the air and after touching contaminated objects. the study information was widely shared during the past two weeks after the researchers placed the contents on a preprint server to quickly share their data with colleagues. the nih scientists, from the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases’ montana facility at rocky mountain laboratories, compared how the environment affects sars-cov-2 and sars-cov-1, which causes sars. sars-cov-1, like its successor now circulating across the globe, emerged from china and infected more than 8,000 people in 2002 and 2003. sars-cov-1 was eradicated by intensive contact tracing and case isolation measures and no cases have been detected since 2004. sars-cov-1 is the human coronavirus most closely related to sars-cov-2. in the stability study the two viruses behaved similarly, which unfortunately fails to explain why covid-19 has become a much larger outbreak. the nih study attempted to mimic virus being deposited from an infected person onto everyday surfaces in a household or hospital setting, such as through coughing or touching objects. the scientists then investigated how long the virus remained infectious on these surfaces. the scientists highlighted additional observations from their study: if the viability of the two coronaviruses is similar, why is sars-cov-2 resulting in more cases? emerging evidence suggests that people infected with sars-cov-2 might be spreading virus without recognizing, or prior to recognizing, symptoms. this would make disease control measures that were effective against sars-cov-1 less effective against its successor. in contrast to sars-cov-1, most secondary cases of virus transmission of sars-cov-2 appear to be occurring in community settings rather than healthcare settings. however, healthcare settings are also vulnerable to the introduction and spread of sars-cov-2, and the stability of sars-cov-2 in aerosols and on surfaces likely contributes to transmission of the virus in healthcare settings. the findings affirm the guidance from public health professionals to use precautions similar to those for influenza and other respiratory viruses to prevent the spread of sars-cov-2: avoid close contact with people who are sick. avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth. stay home when you are sick. cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash. clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces using a regular household cleaning spray or wipe. article n van doremalen, et al. aerosol and surface stability of hcov-19 (sars-cov-2) compared to sars-cov-1. the new england journal of medicine. doi: 10.1056/nejmc2004973 (2020). who niaid director anthony s. fauci, m.d., and vincent munster, ph.d., a principal investigator in niaid’s laboratory of virology, are available to comment on this study. this media availability describes a basic research finding. basic research increases our understanding of human behavior and biology, which is foundational to advancing new and better ways to prevent, diagnose, and treat disease. science is an unpredictable and incremental process— each research advance builds on past discoveries, often in unexpected ways. most clinical advances would not be possible without the knowledge of fundamental basic research. niaid conducts and supports research — at nih, throughout the united states, and worldwide — to study the causes of infectious and immune-mediated diseases, and to develop better means of preventing, diagnosing and treating these illnesses. news releases, fact sheets and other niaid-related materials are available on the niaid website. about the national institutes of health (nih): nih, the nation's medical research agency, includes 27 institutes and centers and is a component of the u.s. department of health and human services. nih is the primary federal agency conducting and supporting basic, clinical, and translational medical research, and is investigating the causes, treatments, and cures for both common and rare diseases. for more information about nih and its programs, visit www.nih.gov. nih…turning discovery into health® ### institute/center national institute of allergy and infectious diseases (niaid) contact ken pekoc 301-402-1663 connect with us subscribe to news releases rss feed connect with us contact us twitter facebook instagram youtube flickr more social media from nih footer nih home en español site map visitor information frequently asked questions web policies and notices freedom of information act no fear act office of inspector general usa.gov – government made easy nih…turning discovery into health® national institutes of health, 9000 rockville pike, bethesda, maryland 20892 u.s. department of health and human services back to top