home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit july 24, 2015 popjustice every friday we sift through more than 250 of the week's new releases and pick out the best and most interesting ones. the general rule is that the best songs go at the top of the playlist and the worst new song of the week appears at the end. to subscribe on spotify, click here. this playlist updates each week so make sure you save the tracks you like because they'll disappear within seven days… this playlist is one of popjustice's big four. the big four are: 2018% solid pop music, big hit energy, new music friday: the popjustice edit, and 21st century pop. new releases none of your rubbish thanks spotify playlist previous article videos tove styrke — '…baby one more time' july 24, 2015 brad o'mance have a read next article the news robyn's announced some things about this new ep with la bagatelle magique july 24, 2015 brad o'mance have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits an amazing charli xcx interview-slash-chat olly alexander interview: "i'm a convincingly happy human being" 50 questions with mark ronson… further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled