australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 14:58 edt new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected the state's plea for ventilators. by sebastian murdock, huffpost us in the span of a single day, the coronavirus death toll in new york soared by 134 people, making it the deadliest state for the disease. speaking to members of the national guard at the javits center on friday, gov. andrew cuomo (d) didn’t mince words about the severity of the global pandemic. “this is a different beast that we’re dealing with. this is an invisible beast, it is an insidious beast,” cuomo said. “this is not going to be a short deployment. this is not going to be that you go out there for a few days, we work hard and we go home. this is going to be weeks and weeks and weeks. this is going to be a long day, and it’s going to be a hard day, and it’s going to be an ugly day, and it’s going to be a sad day.” the javits center has been converted into a disaster hospital, with 250 beds lined up next to each other and 320 fema workers assigned to the center. “this is a rescue mission that you’re on,” cuomo added. “the mission is to save lives.” new: governor cuomo spoke to members of the national guard at the javits center, which will become a makeshift hospital for coronavirus patients, telling them they are on a "rescue mission" as coronavirus deaths in new york jump by 134 overnight to 519. https://t.co/cleqiyknqmpic.twitter.com/1in48nsris — world news tonight (@abcworldnews) march 27, 2020 in new york alone, more than 500 people have died of covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus, and at least 1,000 people have died nationwide. more than 80,000 cases of infection have been reported throughout the u.s., with more than 30,000 of those cases in new york. the numbers are likely much higher, but a lack of testing kits and an administration downplaying the threat of the virus has helped to obscure the official tally. meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected new york’s plea for ventilators, telling fox news’ sean hannity on thursday night that he doesn’t believe the state needs that many. “i don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators,” trump said. “you know, you go into major hospitals sometimes, they’ll have two ventilators. and now all of a sudden they’re saying can we order 30,000 ventilators?” trump’s administration fell in line behind him on thursday when dr. deborah birx, the coordinator for the white house’s coronavirus task force, said that there was no “evidence” that hospitals were facing a severe shortage of ventilators, even as people continue to die. in a single day, 13 people died of covid-19 in queens’ elmhurst hospital center, where there are just a few dozen ventilators for those who need them, the new york times reported. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction sebastian murdock senior reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus new york covid-19 andrew cuomo ventilator trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.