home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music friday: let's hear it for the coy january 24, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: coy bill themselves as a "swedish music project" (already amazing) who make "pop music for the dancefloors" (double-amazing) and bonded over a shared passion for "music, manga and beautiful fishes" (it doesn't get any better than fishes). promises features soren von malmborg, who is a man, so presumably the vocals are from one of the band. no idea. anyway, promises is a huge dramatic pop moment with a great daft punk-esque middle eight and the artwork's a literal carp. spotify sort of lists love regenerator as featuring calvin harris, except love generator is calvin harris, while the song's credits list him as adam wiles. we live in confusing times and this is not helping. as discussed the other day, the new l devine is brilliant. i haven't really known how to broach this topic with you in the past but i suppose today's as good a day as any: i quite like twin atlantic. emmi elliott's worst of you is very enjoyable but it's hard to tell from the artwork whether she's tossing or catching the tangerine. (i mean, is it even a tangerine? could it be a satsuma?) while i increasingly find myself supporting the notion that artists should express themselves however they see fit i don't think this sort of ambiguity is wise. what do you think, toss or catch? there is a really good bit in the tom grennan single. colton dixon's miracles is great in a bieber-does-eurovision kind of way. there's so much good stuff this week! la roux, kali uchis, tensnake covering the pointer sisters (??), mxmtoon knocking out her best song yet… there's a lot going on. calvin harris coy emmi elliott l devine love regenerator mxmtoon pet shop boys previous article features ella eyre on ella eyre: "she’s making therapeutic cat music" january 22, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing a reminder re pet shop boys january 24, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits robyn talks 'body talk': "i'm always going to feel like an outsider" lady gaga interview: "i looked to my past and my faith to find bravery in myself" kloe interview: "i wanted the video to feel powerful — i don’t want to be a whiny victim" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled