australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 17:49 edt new york bakery honors anthony fauci with his very own doughnut rochester's donuts delite created the treat as an homage to the infectious diseases expert, who has been a voice of clarity during the coronavirus pandemic. by curtis m. wong, huffpost us a new york bakery’s sweet tribute to dr. anthony fauci is garnering orders from across the country. nick semeraro, the owner of donuts delite in rochester, new york, said he wanted to find a way to cheer up local customers, most of whom have been self-isolating during the coronavirus pandemic. so, this week, his bakery unveiled a batch of buttercream-frosted doughnuts with fauci’s face printed on edible paper, and it quickly became a sensation. “it just started as a thank-you,” semeraro told 13wham, a local abc affiliate. “it’s sticking, and i think it’s great. people are stuck at home and what’s happening is, it’s starting conversations. whether they pick it up for someone, it starts that thinking outside of the box and giving back.” view this post on instagram a post shared by donuts delite (@donuts_delite) on mar 22, 2020 at 12:50pm pdt semeraro said thousands of the doughnuts have been sold so far, many to customers from other states. “right now, we’re selling over 100 an hour at least,” he added, noting that the bakery ― currently open for takeout and delivery only ― will continue to produce the treats as long as there’s demand. he acknowledged that he and his staff “had no idea they would blow up like that.” fauci, who is the director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases, has been thrust into the global spotlight as the spread of the coronavirus has intensified. he has emerged as a contrast to president donald trump ― a voice of clarity throughout the pandemic, even as he’s called upon to deliver less-than-comfortingstatistics. and donuts delite customers appear to be pleased by the homage. “what a creative way to celebrate an amazing man doing an incredibly difficult job and he’s doing it so well,” one wrote on the bakery’s instagram page. “his patience and diplomacy are to be admired.” added another: “i remember his calm, steady hand during the aids crisis of the 1980s and 1990s. he was a hero then and now. well done!” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. related... anthony fauci hits younger people with a stark coronavirus reality check 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies fauci says trump’s call for country to open up by easter is ‘aspirational’ suggest a correction curtis m. wong senior culture reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus anthony fauci rochester, new york trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too who's hiring in canada? companies look to fill jobs amid covid-19 pandemic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.