about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ new to cookie and kate? we are cookie and kate. more about us here. welcome! if you’re looking for fresh, wholesome recipes, you’re in the right place! this blog offers over 700 vegetarian recipes, and i publish new recipes twice a week. i love to create recipes that are healthy, approachable, fun, and absolutely delicious. i hope to hear how they turn out for you! if you’re hungry for more, we have a cookbook called love real food. the book contains over 100 of my favorite recipes. how to browse recipes if you hover your mouse over “all recipes” in the menu bar, you’ll see many more recipe filters! if you’re looking for a specific recipe or ingredient, simply use the search bar to find it. how to print recipes scroll down to the recipe area, and look for the “print” label. click on that label and a new window with a print-friendly version of the recipe will open up. this way, you won’t print all of the pictures and comments. how to view nutrition information scroll past the recipe and you will find a label for “nutrition information.” click on that label and you will be able to see the nutrition details for the recipe. how to ask questions or provide feedback if you have questions about a recipe or would like to let me know how it turned out (please do!), simply scroll down past the recipe and you will see the comments area. how to find immediate answers if you have questions about a recipe, scroll down past the recipe to view other readers’ questions, answers and feedback. this is the fastest way to find answers to your questions! tip: if you’re looking for a specific substitution option or cooking method, try hitting command-f on your keyboard and searching for that specific word (for example, “capers” or “slow cooker”). how to find our recommended cooking tools high-quality kitchen tools making cooking easier and more fun! browse our amazon shop for my tried-and-true favorites. you can visit it any time by clicking the “shop” link at the very top of the page. how to receive new recipes by email you can enter your email address here to get new posts in your inbox. the email subscription is free and you can unsubscribe at any time. your email address is safe with me. how to follow us on social media for special updates and sneak peeks at upcoming recipes, follow us on facebook, instagram, pinterest and youtube. explore popular recipes favorite green salad with apples, cranberries and pepitas the best guacamole roasted butternut squash soup healthy pumpkin muffins ratatouille how to cook spaghetti squash (the best way!) herbed potato salad (no mayo!) spicy black bean soup view more popular recipes ▸ hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}