skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! you are here: home / new to the wonder of tech? start here! new to the wonder of tech? start here! welcome to the wonder of tech! this site is all about bringing you useful and fun tech for you to use in your everyday life. i try to bring you the best tech i can find and let you know about it in plain english, no confusing tech terms allowed here! you don’t need to be a techie or even like tech to enjoy learning about it here. you’ll find hundreds of articles at the wonder of tech to help you discover fun and useful tech to use in your everyday life. here are some don’t-miss articles below to get you started exploring this site. if you’re looking for a specific topic, here’s how to find relevant articles here: you can: • use the search box in the upper part of the sidebar • scroll to the bottom of the site and click on a tag to be taken to a list of articles with that tag • scroll to the bottom of the site and click on the categories drop-down menu and click on the relevant one • click on the archives link at the top of the page to be taken to a chronological list of all articles here at the wonder of tech also see, best of the wonder of tech: top 100 articles (so far) check out these best of articles to get started: handy tools 25 new tech tools i use in my daily life 10 top tech tools to help make your life easier! 11 top tips for using google maps to make the most of any trip 14 top tech tools to take when you travel! gmail undo send – saving you from your mistakes in flight: see every plane in the air right now where y’all from? this quiz can tell you based on how you talk! how to preview all of your fonts instantly! zamzar – free file conversion made easy! tech basics what is the cloud and how can i use it? augmented reality vs. virtual reality – what’s the difference? using wi-fi vs. cellular data (and why you should care) why you should avoid using public usb stations to charge your phone great apps 12 must-have apps for road trip fun! your 6 best weather apps and websites appdicted! top 10 most addictive apps 7 awesome apps to take to the beach! 6 super fun puzzle apps to stimulate your brain! all about google how to find out what google knows about you how google works and how to control it all from one place how to get your entire google search history — and delete it! your google location history: how to see it and turn it off for iphone fans 15 must-do steps to make your iphone work best for you! 12 new features in ios 11 that will make you want to update now why your favorite iphone apps may not work in ios 11 17 handy (and cool) imessage tips and tricks! find my iphone – the very first app you should get how to find your iphone even after the battery dies 13 super shortcuts for your iphone – in control center the creepiest or coolest iphone feature you didn’t know about — and how to opt out photo tools and tips 12 reasons why google photos is my favorite photo service think you deleted your photos? photos you send to trash may still be on your phone the best ways to preserve your family photos in the digital age flickr – the solution to your photo storage issues waterlogue transforms your photos into beautiful watercolors! privacy and security tips how to use 2-step verification for an extra layer of password protection 10 top tips to clean up your social media! how to avoid a tech support scam! the new way thieves can steal your pin code and the easy way to thwart them! for parents best apps for successful students! how to find apps that hide secrets how to keep your kids safe on a smart phone how to keep your teen safe from cyberbullying fun apps to entertain (and educate) your child the best app ever! facebook tips fix your flooded facebook feed (without unfriending anyone) here’s how to find your nearby facebook friends! 3 tips to make facebook a lot less annoying — without unfriending anyone twitter tips the 15 best twitter tips to get more followers! the most effective way of getting your tweet re-tweeted (and how to do it easily) quick trick to make your tweets stand out on twitter! twitter’s new feature that helps you be more social! pinterest tips how to arrange your pinterest boards in 1 easy step! how to find the true source of a pinterest image in 1 easy step! group pinterest boards how to use group pinterest boards to make your pins go viral! 8 top tips for joining group pinterest boards! 4 easy tools for finding group boards on pinterest! secret pinterest boards how to create a secret pinterest board in 3 easy steps 18 inspirational ideas for secret pinterest boards for fans of chrome the 17 most popular chrome extensions 15 fantastic chrome extensions to make your life easier chrome remote desktop – access your computer from anywhere! chrome passwords revealed – helpful tool or hackers’ delight? kindle fans how to delete kindle books from the cloud vs. your device how to read a kindle book on a computer 10 ways kindle can help you do better in school! tech to help those with challenges be my eyes app – help the world to see! cool currency apps for the blind and visually impaired marlee signs – learn sign language from an app! immersion reading on kindle – when you need some extra focus tech + fitness what’s your fitness age? addapp: your partner for fitness! 7 minute workout – everybody’s got time for that! my fitness pal review your 5 best sites for healthy and tasty recipes bible tech your 7 best bible apps! the bible for kids app – sharing faith and fun! holy bible, holy tech! biblicious – bible trivia fun! warm welcome i hope you enjoy the wonder of tech and come back often! subscribe now before you leave, be sure to subscribe so you don’t miss another post! no spam or advertising, just plenty of articles about useful and fun tech. [subscribe2] _____________ * start button image (edited) courtesy of sippakorn at freedigitalphotos.net tweet2 share13 share pin219 email 234 shares primary sidebar carolyn nicander mohr subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: search the wonder of tech! search this website recent posts google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources 12 ways tech can help with social distancing how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed recent comments carolyn nicander mohr on google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing carolyn nicander mohr on 12 ways tech can help with social distancing popular posts chirp – a new place to get deals on audiobooks how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center google maps adds enhanced guidance for people with impaired vision (and everyone else) survey shows how wearables can improve lives [infographic] the many reasons why you may want apple carplay in your next (or current) car subscribe to the wonder of tech rss feed wonder of tech rss feed like the wonder of tech on facebook like the wonder of tech on facebook! triberr atomic tribe subscribe to the wonder of tech on feedly! subscribe on the kindle! the wonder of tech kindle subscription by subscribing to the wonder of tech on the kindle, you can have new articles automatically downloaded as soon as they're published! privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy categories categories select category android apps breaking news cameras cars cell phones cell phones cloud computers ebooks education ereaders featured fitness gaming devices internet ipad ipad iphone iphone mac movies music personal technology personal technology photography robots shopping social media tablets television triberr uncategorized wearables websites windows subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!