home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music friday: dua lipa's got a new song out january 31, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new release: dua lipa today releases her best single since be the one. (behind all the banging and crashing it's also, in some respects, her most be the one-esque single since be the one.) a standing ovation please for everybody involved in the new dua lipa single: clarence coffee jr, jason evigan, sarah hudson, stephen kozmeniuk and dua lipa. "i don't want to live another life because this one's pretty nice" in the new dua lipa single: pretty nice. best artwork of the week: dua lipa's physical. there's a great bit in the new dua lipa single where it very very nearly goes 'the full bonnie tyler' and if that's a hint that bt will be this year's big unexpected pop influence, thus making her 2020's answer to trent reznor, then, well, there would be worse things in the world. the new dua lipa single is so powerful it could reverse brexit. dua lipa created something phenomenal, don't you agree? dua lipa previous article the briefing a reminder re pet shop boys january 24, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment february 7, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits robyn talks 'body talk': "i'm always going to feel like an outsider" troye sivan interview: "i feel more fully-realised as a person" an amazing charli xcx interview-slash-chat further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled