home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown march 13, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: dual-barnetted pop warbler ava max's new single kings & queens blends self-worth imagery with a reference to decapitation and does so with all the subtlety of a tractor. obviously, it's brilliant. we absolutely need popstars like this around. redone joins cirkut on production and you'd think between them they'd know that if drums drop out for a song's chorus the final chorus needs to have drums in but, on the other hand, look at the artwork. from an artist with 27m monthly spotify listeners to an artist with precisely zero: brand new artist floss releases her debut single today and it's called, er, kings & queens. floss sent her self-released, lana-inspired track over a few weeks ago and i made a note to feature it on release day because it's something pretty special, right? in her email, floss wrote: "my debut release is about two individuals lifting each other up. when things are really great between them, they believe they can achieve anything. when i began to write this song what came to mind was kings & queens, all the strength and power of royalty, but no riches required.” melbourne-based artist zoe a'dore isn't exactly rushing things — she's released one song a year for the last three years — but when those songs are as great as innocent i think we'd all accept the quality over quantity approach. this new nimmo song is v good, well done nimmo. fletcher's slow and steady rise to 4m monthly listeners is a very this is how things work now pop story: it's half a decade since her first release, yet she's still in 'emerging artist' territory, and yet there's still a decent amount of momentum to what she's doing, particularly as the new single forever feels like a real step up. she's playing at london's shepherds bush empire at the end of this month. (although, in all likelihood, she's not, but maybe see if you can make it to whenever the rescheduled date might be.) rita ora is placed quite low on this week's playlist due solely to the absolutely catastrophic typography on the how to be lonely artwork. liar liar return this week. their last song, bad for each other, was on the popjustice big hit energy playlist for ages, and new one better off is a worthy successor. shawn wasabi: still brilliant. ava max floss liar liar nimmo rita ora shawn wasabi previous article features a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" march 11, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat march 20, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits interview: the internet versus lily allen kylie minogue interview: "it took until now for me to be myself." halsey interview: "i don't believe people who say they're themselves all the time" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled