home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback february 28, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: lady gaga releases her turbo-charged antiballad stupid love today and everyone on twitter's doing a decent job of pretending they didn't open their christmas presents early. as previously stated: decent song by decent popstar. she shot the video on a phone. charlotte oc's going the full stevie on freedom and there's nothing wrong with a bit of that. good new one from superstar-in-the-making evie irie, well done everybody. camden cox's turn on the new joe stone one: perky. daisy gray's don't cry is pretty special. there was an interesting post on her instagram when her version of wicked game was featured on love island: she wrote that in 48 hours the exposure led to "25,000 shazam streams, 400 purchases, and 9000 plays on spotify". so if you're wondering about the direct impact of a love island sync, that's it. john newman's brother's eurovision song is the best uk entry in a while and comes in at just 2:35 — they could have probably got it down to 2:30 without the gimmicky gaps before every 'breath' which sound a bit like that thing you sometimes have to do when you're in the middle of a sentence, feel a burp coming and have to swallow it before you carry on talking. charlotte oc evie irie lady gaga lxandra previous article the briefing new/old music friday: selena gomez gives the people what they want february 21, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article features a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" march 11, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits nicola roberts interview: "i feel like i discovered the singing again" sandi thom's real tooting the full-length actual mutya keisha siobhan interview further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled