australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video u.s. news 03/27/2020 13:13 edt new york gov. andrew cuomo thanks rihanna for donation of personal protective equipment additionally, the singer's clara lionel foundation previously announced that it had donated $5 million to organizations fighting the coronavirus pandemic. by kimberley richards, huffpost us new york gov. andrew cuomo (d) on thursday publicly thanked rihanna for her donation of personal protective equipment to the state. new york is currently the epicenter of the coronavirus pandemic in the u.s. “i want to thank @rihanna and the rihanna foundation for donating personal protective equipment to new york state,” he tweeted on thursday. “we’re so appreciative of your help and that of so many others who have stepped up.” as of friday, new york reported more than 44,600 cases of covid-19 with the state’s death toll reaching 519. cuomo warned this week that new york hospitals will likely become overwhelmed, amid his plea for 30,000 ventilators for the state to treat the expected influx of patients infected with the novel coronavirus. photographs of nurses at new york city’s mount sinai west wearing garbage bags over their gear made the rounds on social media this week, as some nurses at the hospital complained about a lack of personal protective equipment. kious kelly, a 48-year-old assistant nurse supervisor at the hospital who tested positive for covid-19, died this week. i want to thank @rihanna and the rihanna foundation for donating personal protective equipment to new york state. we're so appreciative of your help and that of so many others who have stepped up. 5/5 — andrew cuomo (@nygovcuomo) march 26, 2020 in a twitter thread on thursday, cuomo also extended gratitude to companies, organizations and government departments for donating various supplies. “the generosity of these companies, organizations and individuals — and many others coming forward every day to offer support — will play a critical role in our mission to bolster our hospital surge capacity, support frontline workers and get people the help they need,” cuomo said in a statement. new york is fighting a war against this virus and we need all the help we can get. on behalf of the family of new york, i'm deeply grateful to: -@bollandbranch for hospital mattresses -@restore_global for coveralls -@facebook and @loreal for hand sanitizer 1/5 — andrew cuomo (@nygovcuomo) march 26, 2020 thank you to: -@suburbanpropane for propane services -@goldmansachs for masks -@wayfair for mattresses, linens, sheets & pillows for field hospitals -@walmart for use of parking lots & store facilities infrastructure -@keurig/@drpepper for coffee/beverages for volunteers 2/5 — andrew cuomo (@nygovcuomo) march 26, 2020 thank you to: -@niagara_water for bottles of water -@amnealpharma for hydroxychloroquine -long island ambulatory surgery center for a ventilator -@uniqlo for masks -@corning life sciences for centrifuge tubes and cryovials -@nbcuniversal for medical supplies and ppe 3/5 — andrew cuomo (@nygovcuomo) march 26, 2020 thank you to: -the office of @newyorkstateag for protective masks and gloves -the commission on independent colleges and universities in ny (@cicu) for ventilators and ppe -judy for n-95 masks -@huawei for n-95 masks, isolation gowns, medical goggles and gloves 4/5 — andrew cuomo (@nygovcuomo) march 26, 2020 rihanna’s clara lionel foundationannounced on saturday that it had donated $5 million to various organizations assisting with coronavirus relief efforts, including feeding america, direct relief, partners in health, the world health organization’s covid-19 solidarity response fund and the international rescue committee. view this post on instagram a post shared by clara lionel foundation (@claralionelfdn) on mar 21, 2020 at 6:02am pdt a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. related... 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue as new york city's 911 calls explode, fdny begs sick people to call doctors first trump rejects new york’s plea for ventilators: ‘i don’t believe you need’ that many suggest a correction kimberley richards trends reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus rihanna andrew cuomo new york state personal protective equipment trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.