home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat march 20, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: tove lo, whose 9" sunshine kitty plush toy is on sale here for $25, has covered veronica maggio's jag kommer in english and it sounds like robyn. grace davies, whose unisex hoodie is priced at a reasonable £24.99, has released the second track from her friends with the tragic ep and it sounds like robyn. melanie c, whose you gotta love yourself mug stands at 93mm, made a good effort with her new single, and it sounds like robyn. josef salvat releases yet another outstanding track from his upcoming album (available, signed, to pre-order on cd and vinyl), and it sounds like kleerup feat robyn. in other news arlissa, whose previous song hearts ain't gonna lie has been immortalised in a reasonably-priced t‑shirt, releases another great single today. it's called healing. conan gray, one of the planet's more interesting and excellent popstars, has chucked out an album. it's great and you can buy it digitally with a free t‑shirt (or is it the other way round?). sarah close finally releases her and now, we're shining ep today, and you can get it in a number of physical bundles. it's a great ep. r3hab's covered the wagner song creep. please buy a t‑shirt so he doesn't have to do it again. previous article the briefing new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown march 13, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article features a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" march 20, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits lou pearlman interview: "once in a while we get it wrong" britney spears interview: "you learn from everything that happens, good or bad" we will not forget: the popjustice calvin harris christmas countdown further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled