international edition international edition uk edition us edition australian editionthe guardian - back to home search jobsdating sign in search news opinion sport culture lifestyleshowmore world europe us americas asia australia middle east africa inequality global development new zealand new zealand scrubs up for #formalfridays despite coronavirus lockdown kiwis are keeping their spirits – and sartorial standards – up by working from home while dressed in suits, business attire or full evening-wear new zealand tv presenter hilary barry wearing tiara for the #formalfridays movement. photograph: hilary barry kate lyons @mskatelyons published on fri 27 mar 2020 04.48 gmt proving that clothes maketh even the virtual man, many new zealanders are spending their second day of a nationwide lockdown dressed to the nines as part of the burgeoning #formalfridays movement. the practice, introduced to the world by us talkshow host jimmy kimmel, encourages the millions of people currently under lockdowns or working from home in self-isolation, to take off their athleisure and tracksuits for a day, and instead, dress fancy. kimmel issued the challenge last week on his “quarantine minilogue” series, recorded from his home, in which he offered viewers a suggested framework for their days. “first, it’s very important to put on pants, at some point, for at least two hours a day,” he said. “my wife is suggesting a formal friday, where you get all dressed up for dinner, even if you’re alone. maybe we’ll do that.” kimmel invited viewers to take photographs of themselves dressed up, a challenge that new zealanders have embraced, posting pictures of themselves keeping their spirits – and sartorial standards – up by working from home while dressed in suits, business attire and full evening-wear, under the hashtag #formalfridaynz. tv host hilary barry took the challenge to a new level, adding a tiara. too much? #formalfriday pic.twitter.com/juo7mmnln8 — hilary barry (@hilary_barry) march 26, 2020 but across the country it was game on. post chicken coop spray down #formalfriday pic.twitter.com/mnwokzgdim — ko sally-ann ahau (@sallyannmoffat) march 26, 2020 category is: formal friday week 1. #formalfriday #formalfridaynz pic.twitter.com/jol0zd1yge — abbey (@abbey_maree) march 26, 2020 others got into the spirit of the day, while refusing to sacrifice all of the perks of at-home working. one new zealander pulled the classic work-from-home move of business-wear on the top half, comfortable pants below. sort of. #formalfriday #sortofformalfriday pic.twitter.com/nhdqtxfeua — shawn moodie 🤷‍♂️ (@shawnmoodie) march 26, 2020 the snappy dressing stands in contrast to the last glimpse the country had of its prime minister jacinda ardern before lockdown, when she appeared on a facebook live video, recorded from her couch in a tracksuit after putting her daughter neve to bed. she apologised for wearing the sweatshirt, saying putting a toddler to bed could be a “messy business” so she wasn’t in her usual workwear. hours before the four-week lockdown came into effect on wednesday night, ardern urged everyone in new zealand to “act like you have covid-19”. the government declared a national state of emergency on wednesday, ahead of the country’s move to a level-four alert – the highest possible – for the covid-19 outbreak, which was due to take effect just before midnight. it also announced that new zealanders returning from overseas would now be quarantined in airport hotels or motels if they did not have anywhere to self-isolate in the city they arrived in. topics new zealand twitter coronavirus outbreak asia pacific internet infectious diseases news reuse this content world europe us americas asia australia middle east africa inequality global development news opinion sport culture lifestyle contact us complaints & corrections securedrop work for us privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions help all topics all writers digital newspaper archive facebook twitter advertise with us search uk jobs dating discount codes back to top © 2020 guardian news & media limited or its affiliated companies. all rights reserved. (beta)