stitcher for podcasts get the app open app error - there was an error with your download request. try again later. close get the stitcher app take your podcasts on-the-go! download the free app get the stitcher app send a link to your phone to take your podcasts on the go. we sent you a link did you get it? retry close bummer! you're not a stitcher premium subscriber yet. learn more start free trial $4.99/month after free trial get the app learn more premium top shows listen shows see more shows and episodes sign in sign up help new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (ny launch pod) play play this show add to playlist shareshare this show facebook tweet linkedin cancel about this show show info: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area.read more » a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area. read less @nylaunchpod listen whenever ios android web player related shows most recent episode play save episode episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery feb 29 · 25 minutes umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss her bakery located in the west village that is expanding to new locations in new york city and the washington d.c. metro area. mah-ze-dahr prides itself on the quality of its baked goods, its sustainable approach to food, and its commitment to hospitality, all in the effort to create a heritage brand. before founding mah-ze-dahr, umber worked in finance while baking “on the side”. through her work, she met celebrity chef tom colicchio who was blown away by her skills as a chef and implored her to start her own bakery. since then, mah-ze-dahr not only supplies jetblue’s first class mint program but has opened two businesses in new york city. in this episode we discuss the meaning of the urdu word mah-ze-dahr, how umber developed her passion into a successful business, how umber is looking to change the world through her delicious food and a whole lot more! for more information on mah-ze-dahr visit: mahzedahrbakery.com/ transcript available at: https://www.nylaunchpod.com/transcript-mahzedahr/ read more » umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss her bakery located in the west village that is expanding to new locations in new york city and the washington d.c. metro area. mah-ze-dahr prides itself on the quality of its baked goods, its sustainable approach to food, and its commitment to hospitality, all in the effort to create a heritage brand. before founding mah-ze-dahr, umber worked in finance while baking “on the side”. through her work, she met celebrity chef tom colicchio who was blown away by her skills as a chef and implored her to start her own bakery. since then, mah-ze-dahr not only supplies jetblue’s first class mint program but has opened two businesses in new york city. in this episode we discuss the meaning of the urdu word mah-ze-dahr, how umber developed her passion into a successful business, how umber is looking to change the world through her delicious food and a whole lot more! for more information on mah-ze-dahr visit: mahzedahrbakery.com/ transcript available at: https://www.nylaunchpod.com/transcript-mahzedahr/ read less embed episodes of this show how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur 19 minutes | · jan 31 play play this show episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo 22 minutes | · dec 31, 2019 play play this show episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good 33 minutes | · nov 30, 2019 play play this show episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch 35 minutes | · oct 31, 2019 play play this show load more episodes bvseo_sdk, p_sdk, 3.2.0 cloud, getreviews, 938.78ms reviews, product bvseo-msg: error - failed to connect to 2600:9000:20aa:3a00:2:540:f780:93a1: network is unreachable; http status code of 0 was returned; the easiest way to listen to podcasts on your iphone, ipad, android, pc, smart speaker — and even in your car. for free. bonus and ad-free content available with stitcher premium. get the free app now available for iphone, ipad, android and alexa © stitcher 2019, all content is copyright of its owners. this site is protected by recaptcha and the google privacy policy and terms of service apply podcasts stitcher originals the stitcher list news technology business news sports storytelling partners partner signup partner portal partner faq advertisers about download podswag gifting midroll newsroom stitcher blog careers faqs contact privacy do not sell my info terms of use sitemap follow us