home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment february 7, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: for the great, "hey!"-strewn new dagny single to seem totally great you sort of need to trick your mind into forgetting sigrid's mine right now ever existed, mind you looking at sigrid's most popular tracks on spotify it appears that's not beyond the capabilities of your average music consumer. three million years after its grand unveiling, pussycat dolls' react is out today. the full-on studio version is better than you'd expect a 2020 pussycat dolls to be in 2020, although perhaps not as good as it needs to be. christine & the queens seems to have made use of a leftover lauv song title. niall horan's new one: pleasant. crj's new one: fine. marina's new one: off a netflix thing. dua lipa's one-week-old one: back in the playlist due to persistent amazingness. dagny niall horan pussycat dolls previous article the briefing new music friday: dua lipa's got a new song out january 31, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing never doubt the sharpness of anne-marie's marketing mind february 7, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits april 30, 2265: a warning. mutya keisha siobhan: their amazingness is legally binding 100 questions with sky ferreira further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled