video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map documentaries stay busy and productive this weekend by streaming unlimited documentaries this documentary service may be a surprisingly productive use of your time. latest success 5 ways to set good habits that actually stick new routines and healthy habits don't have to be an exercise in misery. elisette carlson | 4 min read passion how $33,000 of debt taught sarah mae ives that starting a passion business isn't enough unless you marry your passion with this one thing, you just have an expensive hobby. the oracles | 7 min read online learning how to make a real difference teaching online courses online courses executed with real mentorship have lasting effects - for both the student and the teacher. aimee tariq | 5 min read entrepreneurs 10 tv shows every entrepreneur should watch on netflix have some free time on your hands? get into one of these series. deep patel | 8 min read how jen gotch's mental health struggles made her a better leader the founder and creative director of ban.do wants to help her team, customers, and people everywhere prioritize their own wellness. stephanie schomer | 6 min read original content why your brand should double down on owned media here are three steps you can take today to maximize your owned media assets. steven li | 7 min read crisis management a healthy and productive guide to virtual meetings we need to embrace change and rethink virtual meetings. here's how to promote a positive remote culture. aytekin tank | 6 min read from the bookstore go now featured book driven buy now by manny khoshbin never take a backseat on your dreams. behind every entrepreneur's success story, there's a never-ending list of gut-wrenching failures, missed opportunities, and jaw-dropping setbacks. real estate mogul and serial entrepreneur manny khoshbin is one of those entrepreneurs with a story of perseverance that will make you believe in the american dream all over again. this book goes beyond manny's personal ride through the entrepreneurial journey to deliver the habits, mindset, and insights aspiring entrepreneurs need to turn dreams into reality. buckle up and remember that anything you really want deserves your 100 percent effort. got it? good. now, let's ride. learn more more from latest crisis management 10 tips for entrepreneurs to actually get work done while homeschooling kids homeschooling kids is the new normal, but our work still needs to get done. elisette carlson | 10 min read productivity tools 6 amazing to-do lists to help you maximize productivity sticky notes are so last century. glassdoor team | 7 min read leadership the importance of diversity and inclusion during uncertain times and what leaders should do about it. alissa carpenter | 6 min read social impact how your company can use its strengths for the greater good the vice president of social impact, sustainability, diversity and inclusion at sephora offers advice on how to improve your company's social impact. jessica abo | 2 min read tech companies tech company trillion-dollar valuations crumble on march 23, only microsoft still had the symbolic $1 trillion-plus market capitalization after the covid-19 crisis killed off billions in tech-company value. (apple's back too, for now.) eric griffith | 2 min read leadership are you building a culture of co-signers or authorized users? three lessons for leading a team that's truly committed to your shared goal. daniel im | 4 min read finance digitization of assets is altering companies' competitive advantages and why frictionless payment methods have to become the norm. imran tariq | 4 min read company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account