admin areamy bookshelfmy profilesign out sign in book reviews news & features video interviews podcast interviews pro connect book reviews browse by genre view all fictionthriller & suspensemystery & detectiveromance science fiction & fantasynonfictionbiography & memoirhistory current events & social issuesgraphic novels & comicsteenchildren's popular contentbestsellersbook listsbest of 2019 news & features popular genres general fictionnonfictionteenchildren's science fiction & fantasymystery & thrillerromance browse by content type profilesperspectivesawardsseen & heard book to screenin the newsvideo interviewsfully booked podcast kirkus prize winners & finalists 201920182017 201620152014 general informationabout the kirkus prizekirkus prize judges magazine pre-publication book reviews and features keeping readers and industry influencers in the know since 1933. current issuespecial issuesall issuesmanage subscriptionsubscribe writers' center resources & educationwritingeditingpublishingmarketing services for authorshire a professional book editorget your book reviewedadvertise your booklaunch a pro connect author page more kirkus diversity collections browse collectionsabout kirkus collections kirkus pro connect discover contentbrowse talent about pro connect launch an author page admin areamy bookshelfmy profilesign out sign in book reviews news & features video interviews podcast interviews pro connect admin areamy bookshelfmy profilesign out sign in bookshelf a blistering sendup of startup culture and a sprawling, ambitious, tender debut. read review bookshelf 2 new waves by kevin nguyen ‧ release date: march 10, 2020 startup culture and science fiction collide in this debut novel about love, loss, and coming-of-age. lucas and margo are best friends, or something like it. the two cynical 20-somethings brave the oppressive whiteness of startup culture together, downing beers at the bar around the corner from their office and commiserating about their clueless, immoral bosses. "being black means you're merely a body—a fragile body," confesses margo, a talented engineer with a penchant for sf, over drinks. "if there was a machine that could do it, i'd change places with you right now, lucas….i would be an asian man and i would move through the world unnoticed and nobody would bother me." in retaliation for being pushed out of their company, margo decides to steal user data and convinces cautious lucas to help. but when she is suddenly struck and killed by a car, lucas is left to navigate their theft—and the emotional roller coaster of working in big tech as a minority—on his own. nguyen, a former digital deputy editor for gq and a veteran of google and amazon, has a keen eye for satire. he illuminates how "lean" startup companies led by young white men with little management experience manufacture crises only to dodge responsibilities to their users and staff. "i started phantom with lofty principles, and i haven't given up on them," says one ceo without irony. "but we'll never achieve those ideals...if we run out of money first." running alongside the dystopian horrors of nguyen's workplace satire are the warmth and humor, sadness and vulnerability of lucas' and margo's voices. using text messages, voicemails, message board posts, and short story snippets, nguyen's novel spirals inward to capture the hang-ups, cultural obsessions, and fuzzy ambitions of his characters. "i'd hoped leaving behind all my material possessions would mean leaving behind all the things i'd become: a cruel friend, a workplace creep, an alcoholic," lucas muses from his new, nomadic life in tokyo. "or maybe i was all those things to begin with." at last confronted with his own poor romantic and workplace behavior, lucas must decide how he will honor his friend's memory and whether he will work to become a better person in the hazy promise—or possible tragedy—of the future. a blistering sendup of startup culture and a sprawling, ambitious, tender debut. 2 pub date: march 10, 2020 isbn: 978-1-984855-23-7 page count: 320 publisher: one world/random house review posted online: dec. 23, 2019 kirkus reviews issue: jan. 15, 2020 categories: literary fiction | family life & friendship share your opinion of this book did you like this book? comment no comments yet more about this book profiles kevin nguyen: how to survive a tech startup bookshelf a heartwarming portrait of a broken heart finding a little healing magic. our verdict get it new york times bestseller indiebound bestseller bookshelf 2 in five years by rebecca serle ‧ release date: march 3, 2020 after acing a job interview and accepting a marriage proposal, dannie kohan has had the perfect day. that is, until she awakens to find herself five years in the future with a completely different man. just one hour in that alternate reality shakes dannie to her core. after all, highly ambitious dannie and her boyfriend, david, have plotted out their lives in minute detail, and the sexy man in her dream—was it a dream?—is most certainly not in the script. serle (the dinner list, 2018) deftly spins these magical threads into dannie’s perfectly structured life, leaving not only dannie, but also the reader wondering whether dannie time traveled or hallucinated. her best friend, bella, would delight in the story given that she thinks dannie is much too straight-laced, and some spicy dreaming might push dannie to find someone more passionate than david. unfortunately, glamorous bella is in europe with her latest lover. ever pragmatic, dannie consults her therapist, who almost concurs that it was likely a dream, and throws herself into her work. pleased to have landed the job at a prestigious law firm, dannie easily loses her worries in litigation. soon four and a half years have passed with no wedding date set, and bella is back in the u.s. with a new man in her life. a man who turns out to be literally the man of dannie’s dream. the sheer fact of aaron gregory’s existence forces dannie to reevaluate her trust in the laws of physics as well as her decision to marry david, a decision that seems less believable with each passing day. and as the architecture of dannie’s overplanned life disintegrates, serle twists and twines the remnants of her dream into a surprising future. a heartwarming portrait of a broken heart finding a little healing magic. 2 pub date: march 3, 2020 isbn: 978-1-9821-3744-1 page count: 240 publisher: atria review posted online: dec. 9, 2019 kirkus reviews issue: jan. 1, 2020 categories: family life & friendship share your opinion of this book did you like this book? comment no comments yet more by rebecca serle book review the dinner list by rebecca serle book review famous in love by rebecca serle book review the edge of falling by rebecca serle bookshelf dark and unsettling, this novel’s end arrives abruptly even as readers are still moving at a breakneck speed. bookshelf 4 then she was gone by lisa jewell ‧ release date: april 24, 2018 ten years after her teenage daughter went missing, a mother begins a new relationship only to discover she can't truly move on until she answers lingering questions about the past. laurel mack’s life stopped in many ways the day her 15-year-old daughter, ellie, left the house to study at the library and never returned. she drifted away from her other two children, hanna and jake, and eventually she and her husband, paul, divorced. ten years later, ellie’s remains and her backpack are found, though the police are unable to determine the reasons for her disappearance and death. after ellie’s funeral, laurel begins a relationship with floyd, a man she meets in a cafe. she's disarmed by floyd’s charm, but when she meets his young daughter, poppy, laurel is startled by her resemblance to ellie. as the novel progresses, laurel becomes increasingly determined to learn what happened to ellie, especially after discovering an odd connection between poppy’s mother and her daughter even as her relationship with floyd is becoming more serious. jewell’s (i found you, 2017, etc.) latest thriller moves at a brisk pace even as she plays with narrative structure: the book is split into three sections, including a first one which alternates chapters between the time of ellie’s disappearance and the present and a second section that begins as laurel and floyd meet. both of these sections primarily focus on laurel. in the third section, jewell alternates narrators and moments in time: the narrator switches to alternating first-person points of view (told by poppy’s mother and floyd) interspersed with third-person narration of ellie’s experiences and laurel’s discoveries in the present. all of these devices serve to build palpable tension, but the structure also contributes to how deeply disturbing the story becomes. at times, the characters and the emotional core of the events are almost obscured by such quick maneuvering through the weighty plot. dark and unsettling, this novel’s end arrives abruptly even as readers are still moving at a breakneck speed. 4 pub date: april 24, 2018 isbn: 978-1-5011-5464-5 page count: 368 publisher: atria review posted online: feb. 6, 2018 kirkus reviews issue: feb. 15, 2018 categories: general thriller & suspense | suspense | family life & friendship | suspense share your opinion of this book did you like this book? comment no comments yet more by lisa jewell book review the family upstairs by lisa jewell book review watching you by lisa jewell book review i found you by lisa jewell more discover books children'sfictionmystery & thrillerteenscience fiction & fantasynonfictionromancebiography & memoir news & features bestsellersbook listsprofilesperspectivesbook to screenkirkus tv videosfully booked podcastin the newsawardsseen & heard kirkus prize winners & finalistsabout the kirkus prizekirkus prize judges magazine current issueall issuesmanage my subscriptionsubscribe writers’ center hire a professional book editorget your book reviewedlaunch a pro connect author pagepromote your booklearn about the book industry more diversity collectionspro connectmy account/login about kirkus historyour teamcontestsfaqpress centercareers contact us privacy policy terms & conditions reprints, permission & excerpting policy contact us privacy policy terms & conditions reprints, permission & excerpting policy © copyright 2020 kirkus media llc. all rights reserved. follow ×close we can’t wait for you to join kirkus! please sign up to continue. it’s free and takes less than 10 seconds! almost there already have an account? log in. or sign in with google trouble signing in? retrieve credentials. ×close almost there! reader writer industry professional sign inby signing in, you agree to kirkus’ terms of use. send me weekly book recommendations and inside scoop. keep me logged in. already have an account? log in. ×close welcome back! sign in using your kirkus account sign in keep me logged in. or sign in with google trouble signing in? retrieve credentials. need help? contact us: 1-800-316-9361 or email customercare@kirkus.com ×close don’t fret. we’ll find you. choose one all users magazine subscribers (how to find your reader number) if you’ve purchased author servicesretrieve credentials don’t have an account yet? sign up. need help? contact us: 1-800-316-9361 or email customercare@kirkus.com ×close hey there, book lover. we’re glad you found a book that interests you! please select an existing bookshelf or create a new bookshelf continue