new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery march 1, 2020 umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss her bakery located in the west village that is expanding to new locations in new york city and the washington d.c. metro area. mah-ze-dahr prides itself on the quality of its baked goods, its sustainable approach to food, and its commitment […] more transcript: episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery march 1, 2020 ny launch pod: welcome to the new york launch pod the new york press club award winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr the […] more how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur february 1, 2020 laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur, step back onto the new york launch pod to discuss their company’s exponential growth and success in the self-care industry. back in episode 49, we learned how fur is changing the conversation around body hair care and meeting the needs of men and women who want all-natural […] more transcript: how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur february 1, 2020 hal coopersmith: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur. at […] more episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo january 1, 2020 lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their custom neon design studio that lets customers commission unique artwork for every special moment in their lives while also providing pre-made artisan items for sale. lena and sas didn’t set out to start a business that […] more transcript: episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo january 1, 2020 nylp: so what’s interesting about you guys is you didn’t set up to start a neon company. it just kind of happened. sas: yes, definitely. it was something that happened sort of by chance and snowballed a little bit. nylp: what does that mean? sas: well, the story was that i wanted a neon for […] more episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good december 1, 2019 matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his delicious new salsa company that’s spicing up the market with fresh tasting homemade recipes and sleek modern designs. matt founded the company with the insight that the $1.3 billion dollar salsa industry has remained largely unchanged, even […] more transcript: episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good december 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we speak to matt bennett, the founder of dreams aren’t this good, […] more episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch november 1, 2019 lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his boiler based technology company which is helping building owners save 20-30% on their fuel costs, reducing the city’s carbon footprint and making apartments more comfortable too! heat watch works by monitoring and calibrating boilers to make sure they’re being […] more transcript: episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch november 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and it’s getting colder out there. new yorkers know that summer is over and you might […] more 1 2 3 4 5 >» 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top play / pause javascript is required. 0:00 0:00 < previous > next open / close playlist open / close share episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch episode 59: heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames episode 58: aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa how you doin’? vol 6: brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon episode 57: carrie o’brien and craig o’brien, co-founders of sunswell episode 56: hannah weitzer and alli finn, co-founders of seachange collective episode 55: jurrien swarts co-founder of stojo episode 54: dr. dennis gross, founder of dr. dennis gross skincare live @ lincoln center: inside brookfield’s bold plan to revitalize bleecker street with duncan mccuaig, svp of leasing at brookfield properties and dana glaeser, founder of slightly alabama episode 53: christine strzalka and caroline strzalka, co-founders of it’s by u how you doin’ vol 5: michael chad hoeppner, founder of gk training and communications episode 52: jenny fleiss, co-founder of jetblack episode 51: david hall and jordan klein, co-founders of park and diamond how you doin’? vol 4 helaine knapp, founder of cityrow episode 50: josh futterman, founder of parkyou! episode 49: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur episode 48: alexandra janelli, founder of modrn sanctuary episode 47: ashley mills and mark mullett, co-founders of obé episode 46: natalie kathleen, founder of jibs episode 45: ali borowick and lauren borowick, co-founders of fatty sundays episode 44: alli young, founder of the forem episode 43: lisa skye hain and brian hain, co-founders of primary episode 42: sarah sheehan and toby hervey, co-founders of bravely how you doin’? vol 3 andy jacobi, co-founder of untamed sandwiches episode 41: alessandro biggi and francesco brachetti, co-founders of avocaderia episode 40: ron bergamini, ceo of action environmental episode 39: a summer inside the network for teaching entrepreneurship (nfte) episode 38: kalle simpson, co-founder of night how you doin’? vol 2: ryan babenzien, founder of greats episode 37: yitzchok kolodny and david kupfer, co-founders of theryon how you doin’? volume 1: angela ceresnie, coo climb credit episode 36: zachary aarons, co-founder and partner of metaprop episode 35: vicki fulop, co-founder of brooklinen episode 34: susannah vila, co-founder of flip episode 33: brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon episode 32: charlie o’donnell, founder and sole partner of brooklyn bridge ventures episode 31: camille hearst, co-founder of kit episode 30: lisa skeete tatum, founder of landit episode 29: alissa wagner and sabrina de sousa, co-founders of dimes episode 28: michael chad hoeppner, founder of gk training and communications episode 27: eric kane, founder of barrel on episode 26: asha carroll, founder of cake in a crate episode 25: marshall cox, founder of radiator labs episode 24: alexandra chemla, founder of artbinder episode 23: miriam altman, co-founder of kinvolved episode 22: aline sara, co-founder of natakallam episode 21: belvy klein, co-founder of riis park beach bazaar and brooklyn night bazaar episode 20: vaughan cutillo, co-founder of montauk brewing company episode 19: tom melcher, founder of show-score episode 18: rachelle hruska, founder of guest of a guest episode 17: dave salvant and songe laron, co-founders of squire episode 16: ariana mouyiaris, creative director and co-founder of make episode 15: ryan babenzien, founder of greats episode 14: roseanne stanzione, founder of lanehoney episode 13: clinton grusd, founder, and ally vaughn, strategic advisor of wermz episode 12: kenneth shinozuka, founder of safewander episode 11: mike rothman, co-founder of fatherly episode 10: doug hayes, founder of junto health episode 9: gillian zoe segal, author of getting there: a book of mentors episode 8: angela ceresnie and david snitkof, co-founders of orchard platform episode 7: julie sygiel, founder of dear kate episode 6: andy jacobi and ricky king, co-founders of untamed sandwiches episode 5: helaine knapp, founder of cityrow episode 4: ben gordon and matt bachmann, co-founders of wandering bear coffee episode 3: bari musacchio, owner, and matthew gray, general manager, of baz bagel & restaurant episode 2: mathew farkash, co-founder of blueprint health episode 1: evan hammer, co-founder of smart host