search submit clear friday, march 27, 2020 log in become a member search submit clear friday, march 27, 2020 log in become a member rns press release archive the devil is afraid of me: the life and work of the world’s most famous exorcist new book on rome exorcist reveals how he terrified the devil himself by rns press release distribution servicemarch 26, 2020 march 26, 2020 rns press release distribution service by rns press release distribution service share this! share tweet share reddit email boston — father gabriele amorth was a master of spiritual combat and, at the time of his death in 2016, the world’s most famous exorcist. for more than 30 years, the italian priest literally battled the devil by performing more than 60,000 exorcisms. in the eye-opening pages of the new book "the devil is afraid of me: the life and work of the world’s most famous exorcist" (sophia institute press, 2020), angelologist fr. marcello stanzione reveals fascinating details of fr. amorth’s career—details that have never before appeared in print. stanzione explains how fr. amorth managed to perform dozens of exorcisms each week, what his exorcism room looked like, and the ways in which the various demons he confronted responded to his bold practice. throughout the book amorth offers startling explanations of numerous forgotten truths about the devil—and about the canny methods he has adopted in recent years to corrupt believers and unbelievers alike. most startlingly, stanzione describes amorth’s first solo exorcism where he clashes with satan himself. when the exorcist asked for the help of jesus, the possessed man fixed his gaze on him and began to curse, howl, foam at the mouth, and threaten to attack him physically. amorth then ordered the demon to tell him his name and received the chilling response: “i am lucifer.” this confrontation continues, and fr. amorth’s career as an archenemy of lucifer continues, all captured in vivid detail in the book. questions "the devil is afraid of me" answers for readers include: can a person in the afterlife enter spiritually into a living person? which prayers of liberation are the most successful? what are the methods a demon uses to enter souls? what are the six characteristics of evil spells? fr. amorth’s previous books with sophia institute include "father amorth: my battle against satan" and the bestselling "an exorcist explains the demonic." ### www.sophiainstitute.com request a review copy members of the media may send an email to our publicity coordinator at [email protected]hiainstitute.com to receive a complimentary review copy of "the devil is afraid of me" or to set up an interview with our spokesperson for this book, mr. michael lichens. contact sarah lemieux [email protected] 603-641-9344 ext. 334 add to favorite articles search: search submit clear sections news opinion faiths ← back christianity ← back catholic latter-day saints orthodox protestant ← back black protestants evangelical mainline judaism islam unaffiliated/atheism hinduism buddhism sikhism alternative faiths other faiths politics science arts health & lifestyle world u.s. people podcasts coronavirus editor's picks by colby martin conservative churches need to get the social distancing memo (rns) — some churches that are staying open despite the pandemic need to trust that closing our churches is not about fear; it’s about love.march 23, 2020 by mark silk why some keep believing when trumpian prophecy fails (rns) — empirical evidence to the contrary doesn’t matter to true believers..march 23, 2020 by marybeth davis baggett dear liberty university board: please stop jerry falwell jr. before it’s too late (rns) — jerry falwell jr. plans to reopen liberty university to students, faculty and staff. it's time to stop him from making a terrible mistake.march 22, 2020 news home faiths politics science arts health & lifestyle world u.s. people opinion columnists faiths christianity catholic latter-day saints orthodox protestant black protestants evangelical mainline judaism islam unaffiliated/atheism hinduism buddhism sikhism alternative faiths other faiths podcasts shop cart apparel miscellaneous advertise contact us membership log in donate to rns everything rns about rns board advisory council staff donate press releases republication subscriptions newsletters morning reports archive photos of the week archive events © 2019 religion news services © copyright 2019, religion news service. all rights reserved. use of and/or registration on any portion of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement and privacy policy, privacy statement and cookie notice. the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of religion news service. website | distillery creative marketing group, inc. contact form advertise subscriber help privacy policy site design by distillery creative × donate homepage news opinion faiths christianity catholic latter-day saints orthodox protestant black protestants evangelical mainline judaism islam unaffiliated/atheism hinduism buddhism sikhism alternative faiths other faiths politics science arts health & lifestyle world u.s. people podcasts beliefs about rns board advisory council staff contact press releases republication subscriptions subscribe to rns newsletters house of worship rns morning report archive photos of the week archive advertise image search image search (standard) image search (free) shop cart apparel miscellaneous log in your categories your memberships / subscriptions your payment information your profile become a member × donate homepage news opinion faiths ← back christianity ← back catholic latter-day saints orthodox protestant ← back black protestants evangelical mainline judaism islam unaffiliated/atheism hinduism buddhism sikhism alternative faiths other faiths politics science arts health & lifestyle world u.s. people podcasts ← back beliefs about ← back rns board advisory council staff contact press releases republication subscriptions ← back subscribe to rns newsletters house of worship rns morning report archive photos of the week archive advertise image search ← back image search (standard) image search (free) shop ← back cart apparel miscellaneous log in ← back your categories your memberships / subscriptions your payment information your profile become a member