× newscientist the daily newsletter sign up to our daily email newsletter subscribe and save menu news podcasts video technology space physics health more mind environment crosswords shop tours events jobs sign up to the daily newsletter sign in search sign in log in with facebook log in with google email password forgotten password? sign up for free|educational access sign up for more online articles a selection of top articles hand-picked by our editors available only to registered users. get increased access now manage your subscription check your subscription package, update your details, renew or upgrade. manage your subscription here activate subscription coronavirus latest news: us overtakes china with most confirmed cases health health does a high viral load or infectious dose make covid-19 worse? humans how to fight infection by turning back your immune system's clock latest uk science advisers expect coronavirus epidemic to peak within a month health the coronavirus pandemic could make weather forecasts less accurate environment will a home antibody test for covid-19 really be a game changer? analysis health a new wave of apps say they can improve your friendships – can they? humans tales from the loop review: beautiful and sedate sci-fi escapism neanderthals feasted on seafood and nuts according to fossil remains life which covid-19 patients will get a ventilator if there's a shortage? analysis health velociraptor relative had a much stronger grip than its cousins life warming oceans are causing marine life to shift towards the poles life in depth we still don't understand a basic fact about the universe comment space how a new twist on quantum theory could solve its biggest mystery physics why us society is so vulnerable to the coronavirus pandemic health why people become strangely attached to their robot vacuum cleaners technology radioactive review: a reimagining of marie curie's luminous legacy physics wasps may benefit us as much as bees. could we learn to love them? life editor's choice how long does coronavirus stay on surfaces and can they infect you? health uk has enough intensive care units for coronavirus, expert predicts health you could be spreading the coronavirus without realising you’ve got it health coronavirus: what we know so far about risks to pregnancy and babies health this week past issuesgive a giftget the apprenew trendinglatestvideofree the ozone layer is healing and redirecting wind flows around the globe uk has enough intensive care units for coronavirus, expert predicts you could be spreading the coronavirus without realising you’ve got it can you catch the coronavirus twice? we don’t know yet how long does coronavirus stay on surfaces and can they infect you? coronavirus latest news: us overtakes china with most confirmed cases uk science advisers expect coronavirus epidemic to peak within a month the coronavirus pandemic could make weather forecasts less accurate will a home antibody test for covid-19 really be a game changer? a new wave of apps say they can improve your friendships – can they? the genetic revolution: can we predict school performance from dna? how to be superhuman: the science behind extraordinary abilities when will we hear from aliens? we may already have done so the problem with plastic - and how science can solve it how i made the world’s most accurate thermometer – using sound coronavirus latest news: us overtakes china with most confirmed cases will a home antibody test for covid-19 really be a game changer? does a high viral load or infectious dose make covid-19 worse? tales from the loop review: beautiful and sedate sci-fi escapism neanderthals feasted on seafood and nuts according to fossil remains advertisement sign up to our newsletter enter your email address to get started contact us coronavirus: customer update help about us privacy & cookies cookie preferences terms & conditions advertise write for us events science jobs syndication rss feeds gift subscriptions student subscriptions educational subscriptions corporate subscriptions get the app follow us © copyright new scientist ltd. back to top