home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum the briefing new/old music friday: selena gomez gives the people what they want february 21, 2020 peter robinson notes on this week's new releases: it's well over a month since the release of selena gomez's last album so that means it's time for new content, which in this case actually means it's time for old content, ie a song she did live four years ago and people haven't stopped wanging on about ever since. much as it's often sensible for artists to treat demanding fans with the same caution they'd give next door's cat — feed it once and deal with the consequences forever — this gesture to giving the people what they want should be applauded. there goes call me loop, continuing the bang out the big songs. the weeknd's new song is six minutes long and that's absolutely fine. is gone the song that's going to make everyone wake the fuck up to gracey's wall-to-wall amazingness? perhaps!! april, whose debut single the impossible task of feeling complete arrives today, is what they call a 'one to watch'. australian pop entity genes says her new one, a silky and romantic jeppo-esque slinker called when i'm around you, is about "the eye contact that lasts a little longer than normal, the built up chemistry on the drive home, the late night texts that feel a bit too comfortable". (is it about getting off with an uber driver?? there's definitely unmined pop gold in that conceptual hill.) the gareth emery and emily vaughn single sounds more like a europa single than the new europa single, which basically just sounds like a jax jones single. bakermat's under the sun is a romp. call me loop gracey selena gomez the weeknd previous article features allie x interview: "i’m still on a journey to discover who i am." february 20, 2020 peter robinson have a read next article the briefing new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback february 28, 2020 peter robinson have a read pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits marina & the diamonds interview: "everyone’s vapid to a degree" 100 questions with sky ferreira mutya keisha siobhan: their amazingness is legally binding further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled