subscribe to our newsletter register interest in land book a site tour home land for sale house & land our masterplan education living in newenham design and build dates and events news and insights meet our team contact us twitter facebook pinterest instagram book a site tour book appointment to book an appointment, simply click on the date you’d like then select the time that suits you best. march 2020 mon tue wed thu fri sat sun 24 25 26 27 28 29 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 1 2 3 4 5 register interest register interest register your interest to be contacted by our sales team. how did you hear about us?tvradiobuspress adrealestate.com.aufriend / familybuilderbanner adgoogle searchgoogle search adfacebook adfacebook postinstagram adinstagram postadelaide hills magazinefritz magazineattended an eventother do you wish to receive the newenham newsletter ? yes 
				 please leave this field empty. newsletter newsletter subscribe sign up now be the first to know about what's happening at newenham, including future land releases, news and invitations to special events. how did you hear about us?google search advertgoogle searchfacebook advertfacebook postinstagram advertinstagram postbanner advertrealestate.com.autvradioadelaide hills magazinefriends or familyother do you wish to receive the newenham newsletter ? yes 
				 please leave this field empty. find your place at newenham click here to see our land for sale. newenham. room for life. bigger blocks and beautiful surroundings are just the beginning at newenham adelaide hills – where an engaged community and an active lifestyle come with room to relax, spread your wings, and enjoy the things that matter most. room to be yourself. wide, landscaped streets, deep verges and larger blocks in a range of sizes, frontages and orientations are just part of our open space philosophy that lives and breathes in this beautiful setting. land for sale house & land display homes now open visit newenham's display village, showcasing stunning display homes from local south australian builders, only able to be seen at newenham. be inspired by the display homes in newenham’s display village. room for a better future. from our engaged and active community to our focus on sustainability and enhancing the natural environment, life at newenham gives you room to create a better future in the adelaide hills. living in newenham room for your vision. when it comes to designing your dream home, creative freedom is everything. our personalised design service is your chance to inject your own personality and style into the design of your new home. it’s our point of difference and your chance to bring your vision to life. design + build services key dates and events aspire homes display home open sat, sun, mon, wed from 1 - 5pm read more shire homes display home open sat, sun, mon, wed from 1 - 5pm read more sales and information centre opening hours open every day 12 - 5pm read more meet our design manager at newenham wednesdays, 1 - 5pm read more news and insights even from half a world away, newenham ticked all the right boxes for this family of six. read more why a digital detox could change your family life for the better. read more local, national and international influences have culminated in a young couple’s dream home in mount barker. read more an owner-built house on a large block in newenham is the perfect way to start a new family. read more newenham launches linear park and new shared walk and bike path for community. read more newenham’s ‘feel good friday’ twilight series is back in 2020. read more the hia ‘display home of the year’ can only be seen at newenham. read more new recreation ground and community centre agreement signed for newenham. read more spring 2019 update. read more discover yoga, pilates and mindful exercise in the adelaide hills. read more x convenience store at newenham approved by council. read more our top tips to spruce up your adelaide hills home this winter read more why now is the best time to buy property in 20 years! read more newenham donates $180,000 to kids in need. read more top dog-friendly spots in the adelaide hills. read more supporting local community, newenham now major sponsors of mount barker high school pedal prix. read more autumn gardening tips to make the most of your garden. read more newenham’s weekend day trip series: a family safari read more meet the growing team as newenham welcomes a new project officer and sales consultants. read more experience classic country design with shire homes’ brand new display home read more step into sophisticated country charm with aspire homes at newenham read more design your own customised dream home at newenham with tek building & design read more be inspired by the display homes in newenham’s display village. read more december 2018 progress update read more newenham’s weekend day trip series: mates and motors day out read more the lifestyle that offers the best of both worlds in the adelaide hills. read more downsizing to upgrade to a better lifestyle for latest newenham residents. read more top 10 outdoor adventure activities in the adelaide hills. read more lui yang’s sculpture adds harmony to newenham. read more newenham’s weekend day trip series: a besties day out read more newenham’s weekend day trip series: a food & wine experience read more newenham’s weekend day trip series: a nature experience read more live privately in an open way with newenham’s corner blocks. read more mount barker’s prancing pony brewery gives back with beer. read more milestone moment: planting our first verge at newenham. read more prancing pony brewery teams up with newenham for inaugural adelaide hills oktoberfest. read more floral design fun at newenham’s floral workshops read more meet martin reynolds who is designing and building his own home in newenham. read more a new era for newenham’s design services. read more maintain an active lifestyle in mount barker, adelaide hills read more all the more reason to move to the hills: local community and connection in mount barker . read more live little in a big way with newenham’s boutique blocks. read more heading for the hills – a generational family affair read more frothy hops and neat nips – discover the adelaide hills’ micro-breweries and distilleries. read more community connected – newenham is nbn ready. read more autumn update at newenham. read more from sea-change to tree change – the young couple excited for their new (family) home in the adelaide hills read more free adelaide crows school holiday footy clinic at newenham read more new block, new home and new spacious backyard for this family in the adelaide hills read more $30m school for mount barker. read more new school for mt barker estate. read more a new early learning to year 12 school will be built at mt barker for 1200 students. read more a new private school for newenham. read more summer update at newenham. read more meet the team behind newenham – burke urban read more cycling around the adelaide hills. read more exposing the art of placemaking – in the raw festival 12th november read more your guide to mount barker health care providers. read more custom designed display homes under construction at newenham. read more in the raw festival, proudly sponsored by newenham. read more 10 tips to spring clean your home. read more must visit adelaide hills wineries. read more 9 resources for home design inspiration. read more creating mindfulness in your home. read more award winning engineers at newenham. read more family’s forever home comes to life at newenham. read more exciting updates at newenham. read more newenham supporting the adelaide crows children’s foundation. read more custom creations and dream home designs with adelaide hills builder, shire homes. read more fabulous fun and floral designs at the recent floral workshop. read more 10 amazing things to explore in mount barker and the adelaide hills. read more naming our community: the history behind newenham’s street names. read more floral workshops at newenham. read more meet the owners of the very first home in newenham. read more the tree change so far… read more sustainable living at newenham. read more a quick schools guide: adelaide hills education options. read more newenham house & land packages – stage 3 botanic land release. read more exciting times at newenham. read more porchland music festival. read more local businesses inspired by developer’s vision at official opening of newenham. read more the best coffee shops mount barker has to offer. read more welcoming newenham’s first residents. read more heating and cooling your home. read more build a custom home at newenham with south australian aspire homes. read more we love trees. read more design your dream home at newenham with tek building & design. read more original newenham cottage returned to former glory. read more what is a tree-change really like? read more complete guide to buying land in south australia. read more treat your tastebuds with our guide to the best adelaide hills’ cafes. read more free house design service at newenham. read more the ultimate list of adelaide hills events. read more making the tree-change. read more discover the adelaide hills markets. read more a passion for wholesome foods leads to “nourishing” newenham. read more exciting neighbourhood village given the green light. read more we welcome our first future residents to the neighbourhood. read more we’re building on our history. read more newenham builder partners the homes themselves are an important part of the newenham vision. the builders we partner with share the newenham vision and will work collaboratively with you and our design team to achieve a level of differentiation new to south australia. they have the expertise to shape newenham’s design principles to match your style and budget. design and build services a development by burke urban at burke urban, we believe in creating timeless, engaged communities where people thrive and lifestyles are enhanced. for over 30 years we’ve undertaken every development project with the same objective: to deliver quality residential communities with a difference. newenham will set a new benchmark in urban design and lifestyle, enhancing the wellbeing of all who call it home. meet our team something is wrong. response takes too long or there is js error. press ctrl+shift+j or cmd+shift+j on a mac. get in touch email (08) 8210 7660 visit us 164 flaxley road, mount barker connect facebook instagram pinterest youtube downloads brochure masterplan release plan privacy policy © burke urban 2020 sign up now be the first to know about what's happening at newenham, including future land releases, news and invitations to special events. how did you hear about us?google search advertgoogle searchfacebook advertfacebook postinstagram advertinstagram postbanner advertrealestate.com.autvradioadelaide hills magazinefriends or familyother do you wish to receive the newenham newsletter ? yes 
				 please leave this field empty.