newman plastic surgery center digital marketing | seo & ppc think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 newman plastic surgery center marketing dr. newman helps more patients and performs more procedures with ppc, seo, and new website. dr. newman performs precise plastic surgery procedures including nose jobs, facial implants, tummy tucks, and much more. dr. newman’s new york city office is located conveniently on park avenue on the upper east side of manhattan but he also has offices in westchester county and long island. logo web design seo pay per click the challenge dr. newman was looking to rebrand the business and create a website that matched the new vision. since they had multiple locations, it made website planning and search engine optimization difficult to plan and manage. dr. newman wanted to make sure that any marketing performed was effective and scalable. the plan design modern website and showcase before and after optimize the title, headings, meta descriptions to include their geo targets create and implement an editorial calendar and active blog strategically focus ppc campaigns for optimal roi the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in conversions 0% increase in conversion rate updated newman plastic surgery product page by smartsites newman plastic surgery website design by smartsites newman plastic surgery website design by smartsites get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies newman plastic surgery center recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect