skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search news home » news access unlimited downloads of premium wordpress themes and plugins! november 15, 2018 aigars silkalns news, promotions 4 comments from the very same people that gave rise to themeforest, and the the community that brought us items such as avada, wpbakery page builder and the x theme, we now get unlimited wordpress downloads too thanks to their latest subscription-based product -… read more→ 24 hour flash sale: unlimited downloads of photos, graphics, fonts & templates november 27, 2017 aigars silkalns news, promotions 0 comments do you find yourself in the design industry? are you managing the creative projects of the company you work for? would you describe yourself as a creative person? if your answer to any of those questions is a “yes”, then… read more→ divi 2.7: new time saving and split testing features march 30, 2016 aigars silkalns news 0 comments divi from elegant themes – one of the most trusted and well-established wordpress theme houses - is arguably one of the leading wordpress themes available today. it’s a theme we’ve reviewed in detail before, so if you aren’t already aware… read more→ x – the new #1 theme on themeforest – april, 2015 april 9, 2015 aigars news 0 comments when we hear the word wordpress we are not thinking about a small blog or a private site which showcases some personal information, we think about a content management system and unlimited options. wordpress grew from a little idea to… read more→ we wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year! december 24, 2014 aigars news 0 comments we wish you joy and peace at christmas and throughout the new year! we will be back next year with more free wordpress themes and other wordpress and web design related information. next year is going to be about content… read more→ templatemonster is giving away prizes! november 18, 2014 aigars news 0 comments templatemonster is giving a major chance to all customers! during 8 weeks you have an opportunity to become a happy owner of fancy gadget or even a couple of them taking part in the end-of-the-year lottery. one week – one… read more→ travelify wordpress theme is wpml compatible, multilingual-ready and free july 14, 2014 aigars news 2 comments we are excited to announce that travelify theme is now fully wpml compatible. which makes it easier to translate it into multiple language. we received the several request for this functionality/compatibility and finally we have made it possible. needless to… read more→ travelify 2.0 update – major improvement making this theme highly customizable april 30, 2014 aigars news 17 comments travelify is our the most popular free wordpress theme with over 200,000 downloads that we have received in the last 8 months. it is a highly customizable theme with 5 website layout options, customizable slider, several blog templates and many… read more→ awesome color mixer for designers and lovers december 18, 2013 aigars news 0 comments simple, minimalistic and easy to use color mixer to mix 16 million colors using one click color picker. this tool can be used just for fun, however, its main target audience are designer looking to create awesome color pallets for their projects. read more→ directory of metro colors including their hex, rgb, cmyk color codes august 16, 2013 aigars news 1 comment some two weeks ago guys behind bootstrap front-end framework released bootstrap 3. since i was using bootstrap 2 before for several of my projects i decided to give it a try to build some test project. i didn’t have a lot of idea what that could be as most of my effort these days are around wordpress themes. the very first thought where to build bootstrap 3 powered wordpress theme but after quick research i dropped this idea. the thing is that there are so many bootstrap powered themes that it would be pointless to create another one. i dropped the idea for bootstrap testing for some days until i started to work on new theme where i decided to use metro ui style and metro colors. i did some googling and found that there are no one good resource where information about meteo colors can be found. this led me to new beta project – metro color directory. read more→ travelfiy wordpress theme now available in french and chinese august 16, 2013 aigars news 2 comments travelify theme is build with languages and travel in mind and due to increased popularity of this theme is now translated into french and chinese. since i know only english, latvian and some russian i didn’t translate it to french and chinese. the big thanks goes to christophe ross and seam wills for both translations. read more→ you can now turn travelify theme into woocommerce estore july 23, 2013 aigars news 0 comments i have received a lot of positive feedback from your about travelify wordpress theme and also got loads of suggestions, recommendations and requests. thanks you for these requests because it’s hard to come up with new ideas for theme that already has everything in it. we all know that wordpress is not just about blogging and simple websites and thanks to its huge community it can become fully functional estore. following this trend i decided to add woocommerce support for this theme. read more→ pinbin theme documentation is finally available july 18, 2013 aigars news 0 comments after receiving a lot of questions related to pinbin theme i decided to create theme instructions where i will answer all the questions and will store them for further use. the basic documentation comers some basic wordpress and pinbin settings and later i explain why something doesn’t work like it should. read more→ pinbin theme now available via wordpress.org theme directory july 15, 2013 aigars news 0 comments we have an exciting news to share! our pinbin wordpress theme is now available via wordpress.org theme directory. it means that you can now update theme to a the latest version via automated updates available on wordpress dashboard. all further… read more→ travelify theme documentation is finally available july 1, 2013 aigars news 25 comments it took longer than expected but travelify wordpress theme documentation is finally available. it covers several most important theme and wordpress function that you will need to setup your blog or website. here is full list of features that we have covered… read more→ pinbin wordpress theme updated to v1.2 june 7, 2013 aigars news 0 comments we just updated pinbin wordpress theme to version 1.2 and now it is better than ever. we haven’t done drastick changes in design department like we did with version 1.1 but there are some noticeable changes: read more→ page 1 page 2 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×