view newsmax mobile home platinum newsfront america politics opinion the wire books best lists specials sci & tech special federal and state authorities urge you to get an emergency radio nearly 1 in 4 americans have been fired or furloughed due to virus: reuters/ipsos poll willie mae daniels spends time looking at videos with her granddaughter, karyah davis,6, after being laid off from her job as a food service cashier at the university of miami on march 17 as the university joins in the effort to fight the coronavirus. (joe raedle/getty images) on the flip side, most respondents indicated they want to continue with social distancing and other lockdown measures, as advocated by many doctors, scientists and local officials -- even with the dramatic impact on the economy. fewer than 1 in 5 said they want to end social distancing as soon as possible "to get the economy going again." [full story] coronavirus crisis in shift, experts now say moms can pass virus to baby before birth us passes 100k confirmed covid-19 cases, 1,500 deaths military's virus data won't be divulged, to keep it from foes vaping could increase health risks tied to covid-19: fda zuck, gates join search for virus drug canada to cover up to 75% of salaries for businesses country singer joe diffie tests positive for coronavirus surgeon general: emerging hot spots facing 'worse week' peter hollens to newsmax tv: lathering up with levity trump slams gm, ford over ventilators uk's boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus cuomo: virus sufferers need ventilators for 11-21 days newsmax coronavirus resource page more coronavirus crisis the trump presidency trump signs $2.2t stimulus after congress resolves snags michigan governor: trump behind virus supplies delay mnuchin: virus aid may keep half of americans working trump promises gop convention will be held this august gizzi: some of dems' 'wish list' items got into bill pence: trump's easter goal 'aspirational' abc poll: us majority approves of trump's virus response advisers push trump to drop easter reopening deadline rescue package tightens oversight of trump purell hand sanitizer maker's tariff relief request denied china's xi to trump: 'very worried about' virus outbreak in us more the trump presidency newsfront pandemic may worsen epidemic of opiod use the coronavirus pandemic that's taken over the united states will likely lead to more drug overdoses, a new report concludes...... [full story] recession? probably. depression? only if virus stays untamed the unpredictable and unprecedented path of the coronavirus has drawn [full story] ohio sets all-mail primary for april 28; in-person vote mostly off ohio has set a new, almost exclusively mail-in primary election for [full story] men: try this, never take viagra again sponsor: new ed cure sweeps the nation. [full story] oil drillers in us cut most rigs in a week since 2015 u.s. energy firms cut the most oil rigs in a week since april 2015, [full story] carnival seeks up to $7 billion amid global travel halt carnival corp. is in talks to raise as much as $7 billion as the [full story] dow drops 900 as us virus cases hit new global high wall street tumbled on friday, ending a massive three-day surge after [full story] why this face mask is selling out fast in united states sponsor: this safe mask is selling out fast in the usa [full story] pope prays for 'fragile' humanity needing help in pandemic praying in a desolately empty st. peter's square, pope francis on [full story] peter greenberg: airlines may shut down us domestic travel in 72 hours longtime travel writer and cbs travel editor peter greenberg predicts [full story] | this secret mineral melts 52 pounds in 28 days - try this today sponsor: possibly no diet or exercise required [full story] 1 killed, 9 hurt in suspicious new york subway fire a new york city subway driver was killed and several other people [full story] ny times column blames evangelicals for virus 'hell' president donald trump's "ultraconservative religious allies" are [full story] hotwire signs with newsmax tv for southeast rollout newsmax and hotwire communications announced a new distribution deal [full story] snowden: govt surveillance might remain after virus edward snowden warned additional surveillance put in place to battle [full story] economists: us facing worst-ever quarterly gdp plunge economists say the u.s. is entering a sharp recession, with some [full story] consumer sentiment drops by most since 2008 on virus u.s. consumer sentiment plummeted in march by the most since october [full story] bosses panic-buy spy software to keep tabs on remote workers digital surveillance has been used for years on office desktops, yet [full story] trump demands gm, ford build ventilators president donald trump urged general motors co. and ford motor co. on [full story] poll: biden holds small lead in michigan matchup with trump forty-four percent of michigan voters favor joe biden, while 41% back [full story] collins, lankford, friess blast 'despicable' dem ploys most of the house democrats' demands for non-coronavirus items in the [full story] | consumer spending held up before virus hit u.s. consumer spending rose moderately in february and momentum is [full story] trump blasts gop holdout on virus bill suggesting he should be thrown out of the republican party, president [full story] more newsfront finance bill gates: can't restart economy and 'ignore bodies in corner' microsoft corp. co-founder bill gates has blasted any plans to reopen the global economy while the coronavirus outbreak continues to rage uncontrolled, saying that this strategy would be “very irresponsible.” [full story] | gas pump prices fall below $2 in first time in 4 years john mauldin: 5 economic positives in virus wracked world fed's kaplan, bostic predict solid post-crisis rebound elevated 'fear index' shows doubts of market stability more finance health statistics on death rates can be deceiving according to statistics, the coronavirus appears to be more deadly in some countries than in others, npr reports. [full story] infected mothers may pass virus to baby before birth vaping could increase health risks tied to covid-19, fda says how to clean your home to protect against the coronavirus hospitals forced to grapple with life-and-death policies more health newsmax tv live correspondents john gizzi john gizzi on politics who is next in line behind uk prime minister boris johnson? insiders patrick buchanan conservative cause will pandemic usher in new era of america first? conrad black political view dems have squandered last opportunity to beat trump bradley blakeman politics of common sense stop blaming trump for coronavirus - now bill donohue culture watch should we accept bans on church gatherings? henry f. cooper high frontier ballistic missile defense story is good, bad, and ugly tawfik hamid inside islam are anti-trump factions hyping coronavirus pandemic? steve levy common sense corner accountable officials must make decisions on economy, coronavirus therapies horace cooper the law and american society memo to gov. cuomo: 1950 act not a license for takeovers micah halpern the insighter if i didn't laugh i would cry michael dorstewitz firing range planned parenthood gets aborted by covid-19 tom basile right now american taxpayers shouldn't pay for cuomo's budget deficit wendy l. patrick behind the scenes yes, social distance relationship building is possible all insiders free newsmax e-alerts email: country: zip code: privacy: we never share your email. around the web powered by newsmax the wire 101-year-old man recovers from coronavirus friday, 27 mar 2020 12:17 pm 'desperately seeking susan' star dies from coronavirus friday, 27 mar 2020 11:07 am 'tiger king' star files $94m lawsuit from behind bars friday, 27 mar 2020 11:03 am lawyer asks court to let jon and kate gosselin's kids see each other thursday, 26 mar 2020 12:46 pm lori loughlin asks judge to dismiss charges in college admissions scandal thursday, 26 mar 2020 11:37 am 'orange is the new black' star says mom taught her to be bulimic thursday, 26 mar 2020 11:25 am home platinum newsfront america politics opinion the wire books best lists specials sci & tech newsmax, moneynews, newsmax health, and independent. american. are registered trademarks of newsmax media, inc. newsmax tv, and newsmax world are trademarks of newsmax media, inc. newsmax.com america's news page © newsmax media, inc. all rights reserved contact | advertise | shop | rss | archives | links | careers | privacy policy | terms & conditions