products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media news and trends instagram stories how to schedule instagram stories since the feature was introduced in august 2016, stories have completely changed how people, and brands use instagram. more than 500 million instagrammers use stories... read more news and trends 5 data-backed social media trends you need to know for 2019 2019 is here and gone are the days where generating audience engagement on social media was primarily a passive process. the always-online audiences of today... read more facebook life after the news feed: why facebook is shifting to stories (and why your business should too) as facebook begins to embrace stories, it's time for your business to shift strategy and think about what social media marketing will look like after... read more facebook facebook stories hits 300 million users and rolls out ads globally with more than 300 million people using stories across facebook and messenger, facebook has announced that it's rolling out facebook stories ads to advertisers globally. read more news and trends we analyzed 43 million facebook posts from the top 20,000 brands what a year for business pages on facebook! it sure feels like every time we as marketers and business owners think we have our facebook marketing... read more news and trends with igtv, instagram is becoming television for the mobile generation too busy to read? just click the play button below to listen to hailley and brian discuss the instagram algorithm on our podcast. how to... read more news and trends how to share posts from the instagram feed to stories instagram has released a new way for users to easily share feed posts to stories. more than 300 million users now use instagram stories daily... read more news and trends facebook f8 2018: what marketers need to know ahead of facebook’s annual conference f8, facebook’s annual developer conference, returns this week (may 1 and 2) in san jose, ca at the mcenery convention center. f8 offers developers, marketers,... read more case studies do 3rd-party social media tools negatively affect reach and engagement? our 200+ post experiment and results putting your trust as a marketer or brand in 3rd-party social media tools to manage all of your posts can be a bit scary. you... read more news and trends decoding the facebook algorithm: a fully up-to-date list of the algorithm factors and changes if you do facebook marketing, one thing that you might want to understand is the facebook algorithm. the facebook algorithm helps make sense of the... read more news and trends top 10 powerful moments that shaped social media history over the last 20 years do you remember your first social media profile? or, how about your first social media post? my first profile was on myspace, my first friend... read more posts navigation 1 2 3 … 7 next about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it