wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress wordpress 5.4 rc4 posted march 24, 2020 by francesca marano. filed under development, releases. the fourth release candidate for wordpress 5.4 is live! wordpress 5.4 is currently scheduled to land on march 31 2020, and we need your help to get there—if you haven’t tried 5.4 yet, now is the time! you can test the wordpress 5.4 release candidate in two ways: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the release candidate here (zip). for details about what to expect in wordpress 5.4, please see the first release candidate post. rc4 commits the new about page and updates the editor packages. plugin and theme developers please test your plugins and themes against wordpress 5.4 and update the tested up to version in the readme to 5.4. the priority in testing is compatibility. if you find issues, please be sure to post to the support forums so we can figure them out before the final release. the wordpress 5.4 field guide is also out! it’s your source for details on all the major changes. how to help do you speak a language besides english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... wordpress 5.4 rc3 posted march 17, 2020 by david baumwald. filed under development, releases. the third release candidate for wordpress 5.4 is now available! wordpress 5.4 is currently scheduled to be released on march 31 2020, and we need your help to get there—if you haven’t tried 5.4 yet, now is the time! there are two ways to test the wordpress 5.4 release candidate: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the release candidate here (zip). for details about what to expect in wordpress 5.4, please see the first release candidate post. rc3 addresses improvements to the new about page and 8 fixes for the following bugs and regressions: 49657 – block editor: update wordpress packages wordpress 5.4 rc 3 49621 – travis: download chromium for e2e tests only 48164 – media_sideload_image should store original url and optionally check for dupes 49577 – site health status dashboard provides incorrect items count on initial load 47053 – accessibility: need to set proper ‘tabindex’ in ‘skip to toolbar’ html 48303 – docblock improvements for 5.4 49374 – use get_post_states to denote special pages on the added menu item accordions 49619 – use <hr /> instead of margin on freedoms page plugin and theme developers please test your plugins and themes against wordpress 5.4 and update the tested up to version in the readme to 5.4. if you find compatibility problems, please be sure to post to the support forums so we can figure those out before the final release. the wordpress 5.4 field guide has also been published, which details the major changes. how to help do you speak a language other than english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... wordpress 5.4 rc2 posted march 10, 2020 by francesca marano. filed under development, releases. the second release candidate for wordpress 5.4 is now available! wordpress 5.4 is currently scheduled to be released on march 31 2020, and we need your help to get there—if you haven’t tried 5.4 yet, now is the time! there are two ways to test the wordpress 5.4 release candidate: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the release candidate here (zip). for details about what to expect in wordpress 5.4, please see the first release candidate post. rc2 addresses improvements to the new about page and 5 fixes for the following bugs and regressions: 49611 – block editor: update wordpress packages wordpress 5.4 rc 2 49318 – bundled themes: twenty twenty content font css selector is too important 49585 – rest api: fix typo in disable-custom-gradients theme feature description 49568 – block editor: fix visual regression in editor’s color picker 49549 – bundled themes: calendar widget css fixes on various bundled themes plugin and theme developers please test your plugins and themes against wordpress 5.4 and update the tested up to version in the readme to 5.4. if you find compatibility problems, please be sure to post to the support forums so we can figure those out before the final release. the wordpress 5.4 field guide has also been published, which details the major changes. how to help do you speak a language other than english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... people of wordpress: mary job posted march 6, 2020 by yvette sonneveld. filed under community, heropress, interviews. you’ve probably heard that wordpress is open-source software, and may know that it’s created and run by volunteers. wordpress enthusiasts share many examples of how wordpress changed people’s lives for the better. this monthly series shares some of those lesser-known, amazing stories. how it all began mary job at wordcamp kampala 2020 mary remembers when cybercafés started trending in nigeria. she had just finished high school and was awaiting her results for admission to university. she spent all of her time (10 hours a day) and all of her pocket money buying bulk time online at cafes. all the way through university that was true, until in 2008 she graduated with a degree in philosophy and bought her own computer and modem. she started blogging in 2009. initially, she tried out blogger, hubpages, and wordpress—but found wordpress too complicated. growing up as a timid but curious cat mary is one of four kids, and the only girl among her siblings. throughout her childhood she felt shy, even though others didn’t always see her that way. when she first started her personal blog, it was mostly an opportunity for her to speak her mind where she was comfortable. blogging gave her a medium to express her thoughts and with every new post she became a better writer. rediscovering wordpress after completing a postgraduate diploma in mass communication, mary started a masters degree in information management. this required a three month internship. she decided to volunteer in ghana in 2015 at the headquarters of the salesians of don bosco in west africa (sdbafw) where her uncle was based. while she was there, her uncle asked mary why she was not blogging on wordpress, which also happened to be the software the organisation used. she explained how difficult and complicated it was so he shared a group of beginner-level tutorial videos with her. after two weeks of watching those videos, she started to realize she could have a full-time career doing this. so she immediately joined a number of online training groups so she could learn everything. i saw a lot of people earning an income from things i knew and did for the fun of it. i found myself asking why i had not turned my passion into a business.mary job not long after that, she was contacted by a website editor who was impressed by her blog. with the information available online for wordpress, she was able to learn everything she needed to improve and redesign a site for what turned into her first client. mary’s home office in 2016 i visited the wordpress.org showcase and was wowed with all the good things i could do with wordpress.mary job in 2016 after a year of deep wordpress learning, she had fallen in love with the cms and wanted to give back to the wordpress open source project. she volunteered to help the community team. and when she moved to lagos later that year, she discovered there was an active wordpress meetup community. this started her journey toward becoming a wordpress meetup co-organizer and a global community team deputy. today the nigerian wordpress community continues to grow, as has the lagos wordpress meetup group. the first nigerian wordcamp took place in lagos in 2018 and a 2020 event is being planned. a local wordpress community also developed in mary’s hometown in ijebu. i have made great friends and met co-organizers in the community who are dedicated to building and sharing their wordpress knowledge with the community like i am.mary job what did mary gain from using and contributing to wordpress? she overcame her stage fright by getting up in front of an audience at her local meetup to introduce speakers and to talk about the wordpress community. she attended her first of many african wordcamps in cape town, south africa. coincidentally this was also her first time outside west africa. before that, she had not been in an aircraft for more than one hour. she earned money from wordpress web design projects to sustain her during her learning period. mary continues to use wordpress in her work and says she is still learning every day! she got to jump off signal hill in cape town when visiting a wordcamp! mary moderating a panel at wordcamp lagos in 2019 essentially, the community has taught me to be a better communicator, and a better person. i’ve made friends across the world that have become like a family to me.mary job she now runs a village hub in ijebu, where she teaches girls digital skills and wordpress as a way of giving back to her town. since she started on this journey, mary has gotten a fulltime job supporting a wordpress plugin. she’s also become a community team rep and continues to build and foster communities. mary’s advice to others always seek to understand the basics of whatever knowledge you seek. never jump in too fast, wanting to spiral to the top while ignoring the learning curve. you will likely crash down effortlessly if you do so, and would have learned nothing.mary job contributors thanks to alison rothwell (@wpfiddlybits), yvette sonneveld (@yvettesonneveld), abha thakor (@webcommsat), josepha haden (@chanthaboune), topher derosia (@topher1kenobe). thank you to mary job (@maryojob) for sharing her #contributorstory. this post is based on an article originally published on heropress.com, a community initiative created by topher derosia. heropress highlights people in the wordpress community who have overcome barriers and whose stories would otherwise go unheard. meet more wordpress community members over at heropress.com! share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... 16 pings wordpress 5.4 release candidate posted march 3, 2020 by david baumwald. filed under development, releases. the first release candidate for wordpress 5.4 is now available! this is an important milestone as we progress toward the wordpress 5.4 release date. “release candidate” means that the new version is ready for release, but with millions of users and thousands of plugins and themes, it’s possible something was missed. wordpress 5.4 is currently scheduled to be released on march 31, 2020, but we need your help to get there—if you haven’t tried 5.4 yet, now is the time! there are two ways to test the wordpress 5.4 release candidate: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the release candidate here (zip). what’s in wordpress 5.4? wordpress 5.4 has lots of refinements to polish the developer experience. to keep up, subscribe to the make wordpress core blog and pay special attention to the developer notes tag for updates on those and other changes that could affect your products. plugin and theme developers please test your plugins and themes against wordpress 5.4 and update the tested up to version in the readme file to 5.4. if you find compatibility problems, please be sure to post to the support forums so we can figure those out before the final release. the wordpress 5.4 field guide will be published within the next 24 hours with a more detailed dive into the major changes. how to help do you speak a language other than english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! this release also marks the hard string freeze point of the 5.4 release schedule. if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... the month in wordpress: february 2020 posted march 2, 2020 by hugh lashbrooke. filed under month in wordpress. february 2020 was a busy month in the wordpress project! most notably, there was an outpouring of sentiment in response to the unfortunate cancellation of wordcamp asia. however, the team continues to work hard in the hopes of making wordcamp asia 2021 happen. in addition, there were a number of releases and some exciting new news during the month of february. read on for more information! wordcamp asia 2020 cancelled & pop-up livestream there was a ton of excitement around wordcamp asia, not to mention all the effort from organizers, speakers, sponsors and volunteers. unfortunately, on february 12th, wordcamp asia was cancelled due to concern and uncertainty around covid-19. since then, the organizing team has worked to refund tickets and to support hotel and air refunds. in addition, a pop-up livestream featuring some wordcamp asia speakers and a fireside chat and q&a with matt mullenweg took place on february 22nd. for a personal take on the cancellation of wordcamp asia, read this post from naoko takano, the global lead organizer. many thanks to the volunteers who worked hard to deliver wordcamp asia. they’ve not only handled logistics associated with cancellation but have also announced that they’ve started working on wordcamp asia 2021 with some january dates in mind! to get the latest on wordcamp asia, subscribe to updates here. wordpress 5.4 beta is now available wordpress 5.4 beta 1 was released on february 11 and quickly followed by beta 2 on february 18 and beta 3 on february 25. these two releases get us closer to our primary goal for 2020: full-site editing with blocks. wordpress 5.4 will merge ten releases of the gutenberg plugin and is scheduled to be released on march 31, 2020. it will come with many new features, such as two new blocks for social links and buttons, and easier navigation in the block breadcrumbs. there are also a number of accessibility improvements, such as easier multi-block selection and easier tabbing, one of the editor’s biggest accessibility issues. 5.4 will also include many developer-focused changes, such as improved favicon handling and many new hooks and filters. want to get involved in building wordpress? there are a number of ways to help right now! if you speak a language other than english, help us translate wordpress. found a bug? post it to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. you can also help us test the current beta by installing the wordpress beta tester plugin. just remember that the software is still in development, so we recommend against running it on a production site. wordcamp centroamérica is looking for speakers and sponsors! wordcamp centroamérica is the first regional wordcamp for central america and will be held on september 17-19, 2020, in managua, nicaragua. the call for speakers and call for sponsors are now open, so if you’re interested in speaking at or sponsoring wordcamp centroamérica, now is your chance! to learn more about the eent, visit and subscribe to updates on their website, or follow their facebook, twitter, and instagram accounts. want to get involved in the community team and help make more amazing wordcamps happen? follow the blog and join the #community-events channel in the making wordpress slack group! you can also find out about other upcoming wordcamps here. contribute to wordpress core via github an experimental feature has been added to trac to help improve collaboration between trac and github. this feature allows contributors to link github pull requests opened against the official wordpress develop git mirror to tickets, which will make github contributions more visible in the related trac ticket. to learn all the details and to see how it works, read this post. gutenberg development continues there are many new exciting additions to gutenberg! on february 5, gutenberg 7.4 saw two new features added, including background color support to the columns block and text color support for the group block. many enhancements were made, including a number of improvements to the navigation block. gutenberg 7.5 was released on february 12, with 7.6 following on february 27. they introduced even more features, including the social links block as a stable block and a number of additional blocks for full-site editing, not to mention the many enhancements, new apis, bug fixes, documentation, and updates. want to get involved in building gutenberg? follow the core team blog, contribute to gutenberg on github, and join the #core-editor channel in the making wordpress slack group. further reading: aside from wordcamp asia, two other wordcamps have been postponed due to covid-19: wordcamp retreat soltau and wordcamp genève. news about further postponements or cancellations will be posted on the wordcamp central blog. automatic updates for themes and plugins are being planned for inclusion in wordpress 5.5. version 2.2.1 of the wordpress coding standards has been released. the community team has selected new team representatives for 2020. the core team published a useful refresher on what it means to be a component maintainer, along with some tips and best practices. the support team has announced some amendments to their guidelines for linking to external resources when using the support forums. the wordpress foundation has published financial information regarding their charitable donations from 2019. the core xml sitemaps project kicked off with their first meeting this month. the gutenberg team have created a new @wordpress/create-block package for scaffolding new blocks. have a story that we should include in the next “month in wordpress” post? please submit it here. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... wordpress 5.4 beta 3 posted february 25, 2020 by david baumwald. filed under development, releases. wordpress 5.4 beta 3 is now available! this software is still in development, so we don’t recommend you run it on a production site. consider setting up a test site to play with the new version. you can test the wordpress 5.4 beta in two ways: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose “bleeding edge nightlies” or “beta/rc – bleeding edge” option in version 2.2.0 or later of the plugin) * you must already have updated to your site to “bleeding edge nightlies” for the “beta/rc – bleeding edge” option to be available or download the beta here (zip). wordpress 5.4 is slated for release on march 31st, 2020, and we need your help to get there. thanks to the testing and feedback from everyone who tested beta 2 (and beta 1) over 24 tickets have been closed in the past week. some highlights round-up of gutenberg fixes display site health score on dashboard developer notes wordpress 5.4 has lots of refinements to polish the developer experience. to keep up, subscribe to the make wordpress core blog and pay special attention to the developer notes tag for updates on those and other changes that could affect your products. how to help do you speak a language other than english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... pop-up livestream on february 22 posted february 20, 2020 by josepha. filed under uncategorized. as mentioned in this post, matt will host a livestream on february 22 during bangkok daylight hours. he opened an invitation to any speaker who was affected by the cancellation, and the livestream will include the following fine people: imran sayed, md saif hassan, muhammad muhsin, nirav mehta, piccia neri, umar draz, and francesca marano as well as a fireside chat and q&a with matt mullenweg & monisha varadan. join the stream this should be a great way to get to hear from some speakers who have yet to share their knowledge on a global stage. wordpress is enriched by a multitude of experiences and perspectives, and i hope you are as excited as i am to hear new voices from a part of the world that is frequently underrepresented in the wordpress open source project. also exciting, the wordcamp asia team has announced that they’re aiming for january 2021, so please mark your calendars now! this small but mighty team of trailblazing organizers has shown great resilience over the years they’ve spent, building toward this event. i am personally grateful for the hard work they’ve done and have yet to do, and can’t wait to thank them in bangkok next year. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... wordpress 5.4 beta 2 posted february 18, 2020 by david baumwald. filed under development, releases. wordpress 5.4 beta 2 is now available! this software is still in development, so we don’t recommend running it on a production site. consider setting up a test site to play with the new version. you can test wordpress 5.4 beta 2 in two ways: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the beta here (zip). wordpress 5.4 is slated for release on march 31, 2020, and we need your help to get there! thank you to all of the contributors that tested the beta 1 development release and provided feedback. testing for bugs is an important part of polishing each release and a great way to contribute to wordpress. some highlights since beta 1, 27 bugs have been fixed. here is a summary of a few changes included in beta 2: block editor: columns in the block library that have unassigned-width will now grow equally. block editor: the custom gradient picker now works in languages other than english. block editor: when choosing colors is not possible, the color formatter no longer shows. privacy: the privacy request form fields have been adjusted to be more consistent on mobile. privacy: the notice offering help when editing the privacy policy page will no longer show at the top of all pages in the admin area. site health: the error codes for failed rest api tests now display correctly. developer notes wordpress 5.4 has lots of refinements to polish the developer experience. to keep up, subscribe to the make wordpress core blog and pay special attention to the developers’ notes for updates on those and other changes that could affect your products. how to help do you speak a language other than english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. update – 20 feb, 2020: this post was originally misattributed to francesca marano. the proper authorship has been corrected. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... people of wordpress: kori ashton posted february 14, 2020 by yvette sonneveld. filed under community, heropress, interviews. you’ve probably heard that wordpress is open-source software, and may know that it’s created and run by volunteers. wordpress enthusiasts share many examples of how wordpress changed people’s lives for the better. this monthly series shares some of those lesser-known, amazing stories. the beginning kori ashton in 1998, kori created her very first html website. her dad was creating websites for a living at the time. she needed a website for her band because she wanted to be a rockstar. under his training, and with a little bit of self-teaching, she learned how to build a website. she had been aware of wordpress since 2005, and, in 2008 a client specifically hired her as a freelancer to develop a wordpress website. kori went straight to google and taught herself how to build a wordpress website over a single weekend. she really enjoyed the experience of working with wordpress. my mind was absolutely blown when i saw the drag and drop options inside of menus to create dropdowns and a form builder. kori ashton she suggested to her dad that wordpress could be a solution for their customers who wanted to be able to access their own websites. previously, they had found this was not as easy for clients unless they had specific software and knew how to code. so, kori and her dad worked to learn wordpress over the next few years. then in 2012, kori and her parents launched their new business, webtegrity, in san antonio, texas, us. it started out small: just kori and her parents. soon, they started subcontracting design work and quickly continued to grow their team. going big time even though the business was in a saturated industry in san antonio — over 700 freelancers and agencies were providing similar services — kori and her parents were able to sell their company five years later, with a multi-million dollar valuation. there were a few choices they made early on that led to that success. 1. they picked a niche: wordpress specialists at the time, there were no wordpress-specific agencies in san antonio. they emphasized the fact that wordpress was the only cms their company would use. prospective clients looking for a different type of cms solution were not the right fit for their business. they also offered on-site, wordpress training and weekend workshops that were open to anyone (including other agencies) as one of their revenue streams. they soon were established as a city-wide wordpress authority. 2. they cultivated a culture kori wanted a great culture and environment in her company and to make that happen, she needed to hire the right people. she believes you must be careful about who you bring into the culture of your business, but particularly when hiring leaders into that community. you can’t teach passion so you’ve got to find people that are excited about what you do. you also need to look for integrity, creativity, a love for solving problems, and an eagerness to keep getting better. you can teach code all day long, but be sure to find people with the right hearts to join your community and then train them up the right way. this way you will grow your culture in a healthy way.kori ashton kori and her two sons 3. they learned how to build sustainable revenue streams like many other web development agencies, webtegrity started out with the “one-time fee and you’re done” business model. this business model is known for unpredictable revenue streams. hearing about recurring revenue business models at wordcamp austin was a lightbulb moment for kori. she started drafting a more sustainable business model on the way back home. support packages were key to their new business plan. clients needed ongoing support. they decided to include at least 12 months of post-launch support into their web development projects. this doubled their revenue in one year and allowed them to even out their revenue streams. 4. they knew the importance of reputation kori believes that every client, whether they have a $5,000 or a $50,000 budget, should get the same type of boutique-style, white glove, concierge relationship. every single project results in the absolute best solution for a client’s needs. in addition to that, offering training helped boost their reputation. explaining the lingo of the web development and seo fields and showing the processes used, added transparency. it helped set and meet expectations and it built trust. 5. they proactively gave back to the community kori heard matt mullenweg speak about five for the future at wordcamp us. he encouraged people in the audience who make a living using wordpress, to find ways to give back 5% of their time to building the wordpress software and community. matt talked about how firms and individuals could give back to the community. he suggested, for instance to: start a wordpress meetup group present at a meetup event facilitate a meetup group where maybe you’re just the organizer and you never have to speak because you’re not a fan of speaking help organize a wordcamp volunteer at a wordcamp write a tutorial and tell people how to do wordpress related things run a workshop make a video if you’re making an income using wordpress, consider giving 5% of your time back to building the software and/or the community. this gave kori another light bulb moment. she could make videos to give back. so her way to give back to the wordpress community is her youtube channel. every wednesday, she published a video on how to improve your online marketing. this made a huge impact, both inside the wordpress community, but also in her own business. understanding so, in summary, how did kori and her family turn their business into a multi-million dollar buyout in just five years? ultimately, it was about understanding that you have to build value. about keeping an exit strategy in mind while building your business. for instance when naming your company. will it stand alone? could it turn into a brand that you could sell as an independent entity? think about revenue streams and watch sales margins. be sure to include healthy margins. don’t hire until you have no further option. make sure to structure your offerings in such a way that you’re actually recouping your value. understand entrepreneurship, watch shark tank, read more tutorials, watch more videos. get involved in the wordpress community. get to know its core leaders, the speakers that travel around to all the wordcamps. start following them on twitter and try to understand what they’re sharing. in the end, the fact that kori was so active in the san antonio community helped enable the sale. we just kept hammering on the fact that we were the go-to place here in san antonio for wordpress. we kept training, we kept doing free opportunities, going out and speaking at different events, and people kept seeing us. we kept showing up, kept giving back and kept establishing ourselves as the authority.kori ashton contributors alison rothwell (@wpfiddlybits), yvette sonneveld (@yvettesonneveld), abha thakor (@webcommsat), josepha haden (@chanthaboune), topher derosia (@topher1kenobe). this post is based on an article originally published on heropress.com, a community initiative created by topher derosia. heropress highlights people in the wordpress community who have overcome barriers and whose stories would otherwise go unheard.meet more wordpress community members over at heropress.com! share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... 10 pings older posts » see also: want to follow the code? there’s a development p2 blog and you can track active development in the trac timeline that often has 20–30 updates per day. want to find an event near you? check out the wordcamp schedule and find your local meetup group! for more wordpress news, check out the wordpress planet. categories releases (310) development (261) security (62) community (58) meta (43) events (39) month in wordpress (33) testing (26) general (24) wordcamp (23) documentation (18) user interface (14) newsletter (12) interviews (11) switchers (9) subscribe to wordpress news join 3,030,030 other subscribers email address subscribe about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry. send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: