skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events news font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons justin tadlock · march 27, 2020 · no comments on monday, the font awesome team launched a new set of icons to promote awareness around covid-19. the solid icons … continue reading font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons → gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup justin tadlock · march 26, 2020 · 9 comments version 7.8 of the gutenberg plugin landed yesterday. the team continues to improve the editor with the refreshed interface work … continue reading gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup → yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor justin tadlock · march 24, 2020 · no comments yoast, the company behind the popular yoast seo plugin, launched its free block editor training course today. the course is … continue reading yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor → github acquires npm, plans to improve infrastructure and experience justin tadlock · march 17, 2020 · 9 comments github announced yesterday that it had acquired the popular javascript package service npm for an undisclosed amount. npm, inc. was … continue reading github acquires npm, plans to improve infrastructure and experience → gutenberg 7.7 ships refreshed ui and first iteration of block patterns justin tadlock · march 16, 2020 · 9 comments last week, version 7.7 of the gutenberg plugin shipped to users. in what is one of the more visually-striking updates … continue reading gutenberg 7.7 ships refreshed ui and first iteration of block patterns → woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience justin tadlock · march 11, 2020 · 16 comments yesterday, automattic launched version 4.0 of its woocommerce plugin. except for the new admin interface, which has been in testing … continue reading woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience → bracketspace releases library of reusable code for plugin and theme development justin tadlock · march 6, 2020 · 9 comments bracketspace, a wordpress-centric software development company based, released micropackage a few weeks ago. the project is a collection of open-source … continue reading bracketspace releases library of reusable code for plugin and theme development → gutenberg hub launches collection of 100 block templates justin tadlock · march 5, 2020 · 6 comments gutenberg hub launched its collection of block templates yesterday. the project, which kicked off with 100 free templates, aims to … continue reading gutenberg hub launches collection of 100 block templates → the international wordpress community and wordcamps amid covid-19 justin tadlock · march 2, 2020 · 10 comments with the rising numbers of people who have contracted covid-19, a disease caused by sars-cov-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus … continue reading the international wordpress community and wordcamps amid covid-19 → elementor raises $15 million, plans to invest in the team, product, and community justin tadlock · february 28, 2020 · 28 comments elementor, which has quickly become one of the leading wordpress page builders and companies, announced wednesday it raised $15 million … continue reading elementor raises $15 million, plans to invest in the team, product, and community → gutenberg 7.6 includes rotating tips list and new full-site editing blocks justin tadlock · february 27, 2020 · 17 comments yesterday, the gutenberg team released version 7.6 of the plugin. most of the work in this update went toward the … continue reading gutenberg 7.6 includes rotating tips list and new full-site editing blocks → posts navigation 1 2 … 204 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram