envato market web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files search popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections wordpress show all wordpress popular items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html show all html popular items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing show all marketing popular items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms show all cms popular items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce show all ecommerce popular items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse show all muse popular items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes guest cart 0 create an envato account sign in envato elements unlimited downloads envato elements: wordpress themes, plugins, video templates & more! unlimited downloads account sites, search & categories forums start selling menu our products digital assets subscription launch simple websites hire a freelancer tutorials & courses create designs, videos & mockups join the envato community learn from others in the forums cart 0 sign in web themes & templates code video audio graphics photos 3d files all items popular files featured files top new files follow feed top authors top new authors public collections view all categories wordpress popular items all items blog / magazine buddypress corporate creative directory & listings ecommerce education elementor entertainment mobile nonprofit real estate retail technology wedding miscellaneous wordpress plugins on codecanyon hosting html popular items all items admin templates corporate creative entertainment mobile nonprofit personal retail specialty pages technology wedding miscellaneous marketing popular items all items email templates landing pages pagewiz unbounce landing pages google web designer ads on codecanyon cms popular items all items concrete5 drupal joomla modx themes moodle mura webflow weebly miscellaneous ecommerce popular items all items woocommerce 3dcart bigcommerce cart66 cs-cart drupal commerce easy digital downloads ecwid jigoshop magento opencart oscommerce prestashop shopify ubercart virtuemart wp e-commerce zen cart muse popular items all items corporate creative ecommerce landing personal miscellaneous muse widgets on codecanyon ui design all items psd templates popular psd templates sketch templates popular sketch templates plugins logo maker all items business logo maker gaming logo maker twitch logo maker sports logo maker real estate logo maker medical logo maker service logo maker fitness brand logo maker clothing logo maker restaurant logo maker bar logo maker beauty logo maker bakery logo maker youtube logo maker more blogging courses facebook templates forums free elementor templates ghost themes jekyll tumblr typeengine themes search home files wordpressblog / magazine news / editorial newsmag - newspaper & magazine wordpress theme newsmag - newspaper & magazine wordpress theme $39 item details reviews comments support item details item details reviews comments support live preview share facebook google plus twitter pinterest add to favorites add to collection newsmag is a modern wordpress theme that lets you write articles and blog posts with ease. we offer great support and friendly help! the newsmag template is excellent for a news, newspaper, magazine, publishing or review site. it also supports videos from youtube and features a rating system. it uses the best clean seo practices, and on top of that, it’s fast, simple, and easy to use. in addition, news mag supports responsive google ads and adsense. a word about speed: we spent a considerable amount of time tweaking every aspect of the theme to perform at its absolute best. all the queries are hand inspected to be optimal, all the images and resources are carefully compressed to make the site load blazing fast. all the theme’s scripts are profiled and modified to run at top speed. run a pagespeed test on our demo the full list of features: full documentation template list: homepage – we have a lot of homepage designs in the main menu of the demo search – unique seo optimized search template blog index author – post count, comments count and author widget category – breadcrumbs, subcategories, and category description. tag – easy tagcloud navigation via widget 404 template – with latest posts other features: all the blocks – please select your block from the top. you can mix and match the ones you like. all of the content blocks support ajax pagination and subcategories (including slides) live search with ajax and up&down keys one-click demo install – no more .xml files, with just one click you have the demo data installed list of full demos: default demo news magazine scandal magazine good food clear voice car news sound square animals magazine travel news fashion news tech news video news spor news classic blog powered by tagdiv composer – this is the only frontend drag and drop page builder designed for the publishing industry. if you’re used with the wpbakery page builder for wordpress (formerly visual composer), you’ll be glad to know that it comes with the theme. custom auto scaling content blocks – the block changes its structure to perfectly fit your design – in sidebar, full width, or pages with sidebar. optimized for mobile – the theme will make sure your website will look beautiful on all devices. it’s responsive and retina ready. accelerated mobile pages (amp) – newsmag theme is designed to load only the essential to take your content to google ‘top stories.’ loading your content up to 5x faster on mobile devices, the amp support is easy to set up. responsive google adsense support via our custom admin panel – the script loads a different google adsense spot for each screen size. once it’s loaded, it doesn’t modify it in order to be 100% compliant with google adsense tos. responsive ads support – perfect for ad networks that allow multiple ad spots on the same div or if you want to show your own ads on different devices. this option will change the ad spot on the fly; for example, when a tablet is changed from landscape to portrait. (the header banner from the demo site is using this system) inline google adsense or other ads inline google adsense or other ads after a predefined number of paragraphs. ads on amp – newsmag theme supports ads in the amp version so you can increase your income. auto youtube, dailymotion, and vimeo thumb downloader – just paste a url and the site will automatically download the largest image available from the clip, and display it as a featured image. it’s very easy to add videos to articles. built in review system (stars, percents, points). seo: schema with rich snippet microdata for articles and reviews. built-in translation support from our admin panel. no more .po and .mo files, you just get a form with all the strings from the theme and the corresponding translations. we hate po mo files make your website multi language. newsmag comes with wpml support. all the global settings are available in the wordpress theme customizer with live preview. gif animation support – this is a beta feature. 9 beautiful post styles designed to give the perfect shape to your story. 8 smart list templates – easily create engaging smart lists. 10 header styles 4 top bar templates 10 footer styles 16 ad spots to help you monetize the website google fonts, typekit fonts and custom fonts – change the fonts easily from the tagdiv composer, right on the frontend of you website. you can customize typography, save it as a preset and use it later, where you like it. sticky navigation menu – with option to enable, disable or enable only on big screens (not on phones) each category has: 6 category templates styles 7 category top posts styles – each with 7 unique grid styles 15 custom module style (loop style) custom colors custom background image custom sidebar + position (left, full, right) unlimited sidebars – each post, page, and category can have its own sidebar. also, the author, search, tag, blog index templates, all have custom sidebars built in related posts based on tags, author or category easy google analytics support (just paste the code in our admin) 10 footer layouts custom page builder elements: big grid slide 7 big grids 16 blocks social counter with 10 unique styles 18 social sharing networks buttons – the newsmag theme is social friendly and supports various networks like linkedin, tumblr, email sharing, telegram, digg, reddit, stumbleupon, vk, line and viber instagram widget weather widget exchange widget news ticker video playlist text with title ad box homepage post popular category ios slider custom widgets popular category widget – show most popular category author box widget – show authors sorted by number of posts, or by name social counter widget – shows numbers of likes, followers or subscribers ad box – allows you to select an ad zone (you define the responsive ad zones in our panel) tagdiv newsletter – helps your users to subscribe to your newsletter 16 blocks instagram widget weather widget exchange widget slide text with title we personally respond to all the request that we receive, and we are trying to help everyone. please visit our support forum. thanks for your interest in our theme! nicu g., radu, marius, alin, emil g., alina s., alina g., lucian, john, bogdan, catalin, cristi and simi from tagdiv version 4.9.3 – march 18th, 2020 new: theme panel auto-backup for the settings – every time you click the save button in the theme panel save, the system creates a backup copy for the previous version. with newsmag theme now you can turn back time and restore the before-the-change settings; new: sharing video content with your audience using the newsmag theme is easier than ever. you can now dynamically populate the youtube video playlist element with videos from channels, username or playlists; misc: the youtube video playlist and youtube social counter now require a youtube api key to grab the data. follow this guide to get your key; misc: added better support custom post types (ctp) on the content blocks; misc: we’ve updated revolution slider to the latest version; fix: pinterest widget; fix: decoding issue on text with title shortcode; fix: get_post_datetime() when return false; fix: dropcap issue on mobile theme. the list of modified files version 4.9.2 – january 16th, 2020 new: new styles and features on gutenberg blocks – we’ve added extended & enhanced support for the gutenberg blocks; new: secure instagram feeds with the access token – newsmag theme automatically imports the feeds from instagram api with an access token; new: 7 woocommerce shortcodes are now available: new products, featured products, best selling products, most popular “on-sale” products, products by rating, products by category, product categories; new: enhanced ui design for the tagdiv composer page builder – we’ve redesigned the whole experience so you can build your website faster and be more efficient; misc: we’ve made some adjustments for better support wordpress 5.3. misc: option to disable the schema.org/article markup on the article; misc: header and footer settings for mobile theme; misc: we have updated revolution slider plugin to the latest version; misc: we have updated wpbakey page builder plugin to the latest version; fix: canonical links on mobile and amp; fix: amp on the woocommerce templates; fix: translation on the mobile theme; fix: schema.org/review markup error; fix: various css fixes; the list of modified files version 4.9.1 – july 30rd, 2019 new: new options added for mobile theme. now you have additional settings to customize the grids, the latest articles, and the theme fonts. this is an important enhancement as now you can add more style to the way your website is displayed on mobile devices; new: option to enable/disable the mobile theme for individual posts and pages. now you have the power to control which post or page is shown to your mobile visitors; misc: improved child theme support; misc: the block title tag option was added on the block settings; misc: better search; misc: we updated the wpbakery page builder plugin to the latest version; misc: we updated the revolution slider plugin to the latest version; fix: vc_column_text and td_block_text_with_title can now have self enclosed shortcodes; fix: sign-in/join now appears in the mobile menu; fix: general modal now applies properly; fix: the canonical url on pagebuilder with latest articles template; fix: the import/export theme panel settings; fix: logo text; fix: various css fixes. the list of modified files version 4.9 – may 21st, 2019 this update brings changes for the envato wordpress new standards. find all the info about what you need to know and do regarding this update in the dedicated article on our blog. the list of modified files version 4.8 – april 24th, 2019 !important update notice newsmag theme is now compliant with the envato current wordpress standards – wordpress requirements. this update is different as it makes changes to the theme’ code structure. it doesn’t influence the functionality and features. find all the details you need to know and do regarding this update in the dedicated article on our blog. new: introducing mobile theme plugin – we are delighted to give you a new, much easier way to create engaging experiences on mobile devices for your visitors. new: extended amp support. the mobile theme plugin is designed to integrate seamlessly with the official amp plugin for wordpress.together, they are a smart solution to quickly give you the best results and increase your page loading speed on mobile up to five times faster. the tagdiv amp plugin is now discontinued. new: added modified date option. misc: we updated the wpbakery plugin to the latest version. fix: other various css fixes. the list of modified files version 4.7 – december 13th, 2018 new: font option for text logo and tagline. misc: compatibility with gutenberg and wordpress 5. misc: we updated the wpbakery page builder plugin to the latest version. fix: lazyload on slow network connections. please clear all your caches, including browser cache. fix: css fixes for flex blocks. the list of modified files version 4.6 – november 6th, 2018 new: we’re introducing the intuitive right-click option in the tagdiv composer page builder to bring you new features and a natural way to design your website new: flex block 1 and 2. the new flex block elements enable unique layouts with a lot of flexibility. new: author box & image box new: pinterest option on social counter new: fixed count option social counter new: option to choose the h tag format for the title element- new: fixed count social counter new: the list of used colors for pickers is now available in tagdiv composer in the recent colors section new: the list of used fonts is available in the tagdiv composer under the load font settings menu new: we updated the wpbakery page builder to the latest version. misc: update for tagdiv newsletter plugin: added mailchimp gdpr checkboxes misc: wpml support fix: column text encoding issues fix: pinterest api fix: weather block mapped on tagdiv composer the list of modified files version 4.5 – july 5th, 2018 new: added support for multiple sticky sidebars. the setting is available when you select a column in the tagdiv composer page builder new: custom url option for rss in tagdiv social counter plugin fix: wpml flag in post content fix: if the footer is disabled, from now on, it will be hidden on the amp theme version too fix: various typos in the theme options panel fix: pinterest block api issues. it also has better error messages fix: the exchange widget now works as expected but it requieres a api key misc: better error messages when tagdiv composer encounters a problem the list of modified files version 4.4 – may 24th, 2018 new: we added support for the private policy wordpress page on the login/register modal window. new: setting to disable google fonts in theme panel – fonts – google fonts settings. you can load local font files and use them instead of external fonts. misc: the plugin update system was completely rewritten from scratch. it tries to update the plugin using multiple ways and if it fails, it will show an admin notice with information about what plugin failed and why. misc: all plugins now have a built date on them besides the version. misc: the theme is gdpr compliant now. new: shortcuts to use in the footer text – date, sitelink, privacy_policy and more. the list of shortcuts is available in the theme panel next to the setting. the list of modified files version 4.3 – april 18th, 2018 new: tagdiv amp plugin – tagdiv’s solution for implementing google amp in wordpress new: tagdiv newsletter plugin – newsletter form beautifully designed with over 8 styles new: font settins can now be saved as a preset and applied on all the blocks from tagdiv composer easly new: social sharing networks, the theme now supports linkedin, tumblr, email sharing, telegram, digg, reddit, stumbleupon, vk, line and viber new: ability to reorder the social icons with drag and drop from the theme panel new: 20 social icons styles for social sharing new: if the icons do not fit on screen the theme will automatically hide them fix: pinterest board url fix: facebook videos support now works again fix: we’ve updated to the latest instagram api, this should fix all the problems misc: improved tagdiv composer selection mask. new colors and better ui, now the controls are outside of the selection mask, this allows better selection for small items. misc: wp-admin performance issue. we optimized the tagdiv composer to load only what’s needed and where is needed. wp-admin speed should greatly improve. misc: huge speed improvemnts in tagdiv composer editor. we did a full memory consumption audit for tagdiv composer and we fixed a few memory leaks. misc: we’ve removed unneeded confirmations from tagdiv composer. for example when the content of the page was not changed and a user wanted to close the composer. misc: when closing tagdiv composer you will be redirected to the previeous page instead of the default edit page. we found that this provides a better user experience misc: tagdiv composer now has a new color picker script that is a lot faster then the old one. the same color picker is used on the widgets. misc: we added a couple of new social icons that are available on the top bar and footer of the site the list of modified files version 4.2 – november 17, 2017 misc: wpbakery page builder plugin updated to the latest version misc: compatibility with wordpress 4.9 fix: weather forecast version 4.1 – november 1st, 2017 misc: wpbakery page builder plugin updated to the latest version misc: revolution slider plugin updated to the latest version fix: weather widget fix: xss security issue fix: background click ad version 4.0 – july 13th, 2017 new: challenging you to be more creative and productive, we’ve added the first page builder ever created for blogs, news and magazine websites. newsmag 4 brings you tagdiv composer – a lighter, faster and more efficient way to build your site. ready to be used right on the frontend, easier than ever, seeing every change instantly. new: live frontend less and css editor. this allows you to quickly add css or less quick to any page of your site new: news magazine demo new: clear voice demo new: sound square demo new: buttons that are available in the format menu the list of modified files version 3.3.1 – january 26th, 2017 fix: we modified the login modal window code to only appear on the page when front page login is enabled. this makes sure that some versions of chrome browser will not mark the site as “not secure”. version 3.3 – december 23rd, 2016 misc: wpbakery page builder plugin updated to the latest version 5.0.1 misc: revolution slider plugin updated to the latest version misc: full compatibility with wordpress 4.7 new: the plugin page from where a user installs the included plugins was completely redesigned to be more user-friendly. new: added support for block templates overwritten via the theme api system in demos. all future demos can now load different block templates if needed. new: the comment form is now validated with javascript. this was a long requested feature, and we are very happy how it turned out. misc: css fixes in the theme panel and the welcome screen misc: we finally updated the social icons, and we also removed the icons for dead services (picasa, posterous, etc.) misc: the social networks panel now checks each input to be correct, this prevents user error, and bad url’s that supposed to go to social networks profiles but instead go to 404 pages on the site misc: we removed the max-width from srcset on images and the responsive images on mobile now work as expected misc: translation panel information text misc: on android, when a user uses the mobile search, it will autofocus on the input field now fix: password protected comments now work as expected fix: facebook videos that are in the content of the post now work and resize as expected fix: font panel css issues fix: the tag ajax filter now displays the tags in the order of the id’s the user selects. before it was alphabetically fix: home breadcrumb does not appear as structured data as required by the google metadata testing tool fix: smartlists that had image captions with html where broken. now we fixed them. fix: category sorting options was not working sometimes. the list of modified files version 3.2 – october 10th, 2016 new: added support for design options on most of the blocks. you can now change the padding, margin and border on blocks new: added support for retina images on our blocks and modules. you can enable them in the panel. misc: various core code refactoring and optimizations. misc: better theme documentation and better help text in panel misc: added used on for thumbnails in theme panel misc: file path and names are now visible on each module, smart list, template etc on hover misc: breadcrumbs markup, added breadcrumblist schema fix: our blocks sometimes had issues autoadjuting the column count when placed in a inner row that is in a row fix: on first install the wpbakery page builder tooltip was appearing over our tooltip and there was no way to close the last remaining open tooltip fix: wrong recomanded columns in wpbakery page builder, new users found it dificult to find out on what colum layouts our blocks work best fix: background ad on tempalte 8 fix: top menu hover and background ad cursor fix bugs fix: images that have alignnone now work as expected fix: main menu was loading without css on first load fix: modal login button css the list of modified files version 3.1 – july 25th, 2016 update notice: please note that this version does not work with legacy wpbakery page builder versions. new: wpbakery page builder plugin updated to the latest version 4.12 new: login, register and forgot password ajax windows, a complete and more modern redesign. new: added support for full height rows, column position and content position on them in wpbakery page builder. new: added support for parallax speed on rows new: added support for equal height inner rows and content placement new: setting to hide the author name on modules and on single posts independently. previously there was only one global setting. new: added support for custom fonts in theme panel that are uploaded via the wordpress media gallery. the custom fonts can be used just like before on most of the theme’s ui without writing any code new: the weather widget now opens an input if it’s unable to locate the user via the browser’s location api. misc: we fully rewrote the trending now block, it’s now leaner and it works better misc: block parameters now have a better description misc: code improvements to the following shortcodes: td_block_big_grid_slide, td_block_homepage_full_1, td_block_ad_box and the video playlists misc: the media gallery that is used in the theme panel is now less cluttered and without the unused options misc: we cleaned the theme panel and the code is more organized now misc: all the blocks now show a notice to admins on the frontend when there are missing settings that are required. misc: the main theme loader is smoother now and has small design improvements misc: we changed the way templates detect the wpbakery page builder plugin. the detection method is based on vc_row and it only triggers when vc_row is found in the content. this allows one to use shortcodes in the default templates that have sidebar + title. misc: added font settings for post lists misc: drop caps font settings issue fix misc: all the advertising blocks now support an ad title misc: various google webmaster structured data issues have been fixed misc: better support for ie8 fix: category dropdown list with long category titles now works as expected the list of modified files version 3.0 – june 7th, 2016 update notice: please update tagdiv social counter to the latest version that comes with the theme. new: grid system – with this we eliminate all the # in url bugs new: instagram block and widget new: footer instagram new: weather block and widget new: weather option in top bar new: exchange block and widget new: mobile menu new: search menu on mobiles new: background support for mobile search and menu with parallax new: 1 new footer styles new: 5 new category templates new: 3 one click demos new: 10 social counter styles new: login/register option for mobiles new: custom post types now support a global sidebar that can be set from the theme panel new: logo in h1 tags new: reset button in theme panel. this will bring the theme to the original state new: panel for one click demos new: enable/disable category pull-down filter option in theme panel new: display order for category tags on post pages option in theme panel new: social counter – version 4.1 – please update your plugin to the latest version new: whatsapp share for article on mobile devices new: 4 new smart lists ( smart list 5, 6, 7 and 8 ) new: 3 new ad spots used for smart lists ( smart list 6, 7 and 8 ) new: 1 new ad spot (footer top) new: 4 new top bar layouts new: we removed the smooth scroll option from panel new: new look for the main menu sub-menus misc: the theme settings are now only saved once per pageload and only if needed. we use the shutdown action to save them. misc: video playlist block now works with multiple playlists of the same type on one page misc: we audited all the metadata produced by the theme and we improved every aspect of it misc: updated the google fonts list misc: better seo on smartlists misc: the categories that are listed on post pages can now be shown using the wordpress default order. this can be enabled from theme panel. misc: we optimized the queries for all the blocks and widgets that don’t show posts (popular categories, social counter etc…) fix: panel got stuck while saving in specific cases, mostly related to categories fix: contributor users cannot change the post template now, this is more in line with wordpress fix: security issues fix: infinite pagination on categories did not work with speed booster fix: removed no comments message with comments disabled fix: infinite loading on categories issue with latest posts when the rest is fewer than the “blog pages show at most” setting fix: footer logo title attribute fix: tinymce issues with the shortcodes menu (multiple options where selected in specific cases) the list of modified files version 2.3.6 – april 14, 2016 new: wpbakery page builder plugin updated to the latest version 4.11.2 new: revolution slider plugin updated to the latest version 5.2.4.1 fix: a jquery syntax issue that appeared after wordpress 4.5 update version 2.3.5 – january 9, 2016 fix: wordpress 4.4.1 homepage pagination issue version 2.3.4 – december 23th, 2015 new: wpbakery page builder was updated to the latest version 4.9 new: revolution slider was updated to the latest version 5.1.5 fix: modified structured data to comply with google’s new requirements the list of modified files version 2.3.3 fix: pagination was not working on categories with big grid disabled on wordpress 4.4 version 2.3.2 – november 30, 2015 new: social counter version + fix for facebook like counter. facebook requires now an api key, read more here: http://forum.tagdiv.com/tagdiv-social-counter-tutorial/ version 2.2 – september 1st, 2015 new: we are using a new less compiler for the css. this prepares our theme for the next stage, when we will optimize css delivery based on settings and components used new: this is the first version of our ajax preloader. the preloader brings the ajax subcategories on the initial pageload. this provides a better user experience and, in some cases, a better performance if the initial page is cached. new: all categories have an option for infinite loading + load more instead of pagination new: woocommerce invoicing plugin new: woocommerce label maker plugin with support for the dymo label printer fix: on the ad block the sidebar ad spot cannot be selected since the last wpbakery page builder update fix: live ajax search box in specific circumstances was linking to categories instead of the actual search results fix: security issue with the ajax code that handles the sidebars. fix: issue with ajax subcategories. if you clicked them fast enough there was a chance that they will desynchronized with the content, showing the wrong content. fix: the smart sidebar animates better now when it’s used with the smart affix menu fix: we added the alt tag to placeholder feature images and the thumb disabled images misc: a big part of the themes javascript now passes jshint and complies to wordpress javascript coding standards misc: mega menu ajax loading now works smoother and the animation is top to bottom misc: infinite loader now has a loading animation misc: we improved the loading animation, when needed it’s smaller and it looks better misc: revolution slider was updated to the latest version the list of modified files | blog post – more info about this update version 2.1 – july 30th, 2015 we added 6 new unique grids to the theme we added 7 grid styles (each grid can use one of the styles). this allows you to make a lot of combinations and make your site unique custom posts types panel – here you can customize the single for specific custom post types. for example, you can choose what taxonomy to use for breadcrumbs, the category spot, and the tags spot. custom taxonomy panel – customize the module used for listings, the sidebar and its position for each taxonomy. taxonomy.php – all the taxonomy archives are handled by that file our new single templates can be easily adapted to custom post types just by copying them to something like single-yourcpt.php the woocommerce single template is now a separate file, and it supports site-wide sidebar position + sidebar and per product settings on custom post types you can now set the sidebar position and sidebar on a per post basis better child theme support. the blocks, modules, single template, all wordpress templates, some core components and single loops are now easily overwritten via the child theme html is now allowed in the author box on the author page the wpbakery page builder plugin was updated to the latest version this update brings the start of a new system that will load only the required css. in this first step, we switched the woocommerce css to the new system, and it’s loaded only when it’s required. with time, as we make sure that the system is stable, we will move all the plugin css externally and more we removed the minimization from key sections of javascript code. this allows easier modifications demo installer error when the uploads folder doesn’t have the required permissions missing border top setting for blocks missing color preset setting from the blocks panel the settings for the loop in the “page builder + loop” template did not work as expected when selecting a category on the “page builder + loop” template, the pagination was showing a warning view all results while searching was returning a page with the two words merged instead of separated the category page was showing a warning when an id that does not exist was requested, and a 404 error was generated. the featured filter on category pages was also affected. all the metadata exposed by the theme was audited, and we fixed all the issues found. the new google metadata testing tool was updated, and it reported some missing metadata. fix better new the list of modified files show more show less more items by tagdiv view author portfolio regular license regular license selected $39 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users are not charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. extended license selected $999 use, by you or one client, in a single end product which end users can be charged for. the total price includes the item price and a buyer fee. view license details regular license extended license $39 included: quality checked by envato included: future updates included: theme hosting offer included: 6 months support from tagdiv what does support include? extend support to 12 months $10.13 get it now and save up to $13.50 price is in us dollars. price displayed excludes sales tax. add to cart buy now power elite author tagdiv view portfolio 15,235 sales 4,309 comments item rating: 4.83 stars 4.83 average based on 1152 ratings. (more information) 5 star 87% 87% 4 star 10% 10% 3 star 0% 0% 2 star 0% 0% 1 star 1% 1% last update 26 march 20 created 22 november 14 gutenberg optimized yes high resolution yes widget ready yes compatible browsers ie9, ie10, ie11, firefox, safari, opera, chrome, edge compatible with bbpress 2.5.x, bbpress 2.4.x, buddypress 4.1.x, buddypress 3.0.x, buddypress 2.5.x, woocommerce 3.8.x, woocommerce 3.7.x, woocommerce 3.6.x, woocommerce 3.5.x, woocommerce 3.4.x, woocommerce 3.3.x, wpbakery page builder 5.7.x, wpbakery page builder 5.6.x, wpbakery page builder 5.5.x, wpbakery page builder 5.4.x, wpbakery page builder 5.3, wpml software version wordpress 5.3.x, wordpress 5.2.x, wordpress 5.1.x, wordpress 5.0.x, wordpress 4.9.x, wordpress 4.8.x, wordpress 4.7.x, wordpress 4.6.1, wordpress 4.6, wordpress 4.5.x, wordpress 4.5.2, wordpress 4.5.1, wordpress 4.5, wordpress 4.4.2, wordpress 4.4.1, wordpress 4.4, wordpress 4.3.1, wordpress 4.3, wordpress 4.2, wordpress 4.1, wordpress 4.0 themeforest files included layered psd, php files, css files, js files, psd columns 2 documentation well documented layout responsive tags article, blog, editorial, fast and clean, journal, magazine, minimal responsive, news, newspaper, post, publishing, rating, review, simple paper © all rights reserved tagdiv contact the envato market help team deliver better projects faster. web, design & video assets unlimited downloads, from $16.50/month effortless design and video. made online by you. smart templates ready for any skill level. designers matched perfectly to you on envato studio 2000 artists ready to undertake your work quick links explore popular categories web themes & templates portfolio wordpress themes business wordpress themes wordpress hosting portfolio website templates responsive website templates video after effects templates apple motion templates video effects free video stock footage stock footage audio royalty free music sound effects best selling royalty free music logic pro files background music code wordpress plugins php script javascript css templates prestashop plugins graphics logo templates business card templates lightroom presets serif fonts free art & illustration images photos food stock photos animal stock photos tech stock photos fitness stock photos nature stock photos design maker logo maker business card maker t-shirt maker banner maker flyer maker video maker intro maker slideshow maker instagram story video maker promo video maker teaser video maker elements wordpress themes stock images website templates logos fonts tuts+ photoshop tutorials javascript tutorials wordpress tutorials free online tutorials free coding tutorials envato market terms licenses market api become an affiliate help themes and templates authors help center join our community community blog forums meetups 58,513,582 items sold $810,271,392 community earnings about envato careers privacy policy sitemap all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax © 2020 envato pty ltd. trademarks and brands are the property of their respective owners. by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax by all prices are in us dollars and exclude sales tax