wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress wordpress 5.4 rc4 posted march 24, 2020 by francesca marano. filed under development, releases. the fourth release candidate for wordpress 5.4 is live! wordpress 5.4 is currently scheduled to land on march 31 2020, and we need your help to get there—if you haven’t tried 5.4 yet, now is the time! you can test the wordpress 5.4 release candidate in two ways: try the wordpress beta tester plugin (choose the “bleeding edge nightlies” option) or download the release candidate here (zip). for details about what to expect in wordpress 5.4, please see the first release candidate post. rc4 commits the new about page and updates the editor packages. plugin and theme developers please test your plugins and themes against wordpress 5.4 and update the tested up to version in the readme to 5.4. the priority in testing is compatibility. if you find issues, please be sure to post to the support forums so we can figure them out before the final release. the wordpress 5.4 field guide is also out! it’s your source for details on all the major changes. how to help do you speak a language besides english? help us translate wordpress into more than 100 languages! if you think you’ve found a bug, you can post to the alpha/beta area in the support forums. we’d love to hear from you! if you’re comfortable writing a reproducible bug report, file one on wordpress trac, where you can also find a list of known bugs. share this: twitter facebook email like this: like loading... post navigation previous previous post: wordpress 5.4 rc3 see also: want to follow the code? there’s a development p2 blog and you can track active development in the trac timeline that often has 20–30 updates per day. want to find an event near you? check out the wordcamp schedule and find your local meetup group! for more wordpress news, check out the wordpress planet. categories releases (310) development (261) security (62) community (58) meta (43) events (39) month in wordpress (33) testing (26) general (24) wordcamp (23) documentation (18) user interface (14) newsletter (12) interviews (11) switchers (9) subscribe to wordpress news join 3,030,030 other subscribers email address subscribe about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry. send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: