skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile start getting the results you deserve thousands of women have achieved incredible results. now it’s your turn. “i own all of your programs. i’m not exaggerating when i say they’ve changed my life.” -kerry “the way my body and my mind have changed is incredible.” -nikki “i just wanted her [nia] to know she has changed my life and i’ve never been happier, healthier and more comfortable in my own skin.” -katherine books lift like a girl when lift like a girl was released it became the #1 best seller in exercise & fitness and was the #1 new release in general women’s health on amazon. (paid links.) click here to get the paperback on amazon. click here to get the kindle/ebook on amazon. “your book is a god send, i love your message — so many people need to hear this. life changing. i wish i was 20 years younger reading this.” -beth the 100-day reclaim are your fitness and nutrition choices something that make you feel great about yourself? do they empower you and enhance your life? or is health and fitness a constant source of frustration and something that leaves you feeling “less than”? this book is for you if: you’ve ever had your day ruined because of the number you saw on the bathroom scale. you feel like food and fitness dominates your life (and drains your sanity). you hold your happiness captive because you say, “i’ll finally be happy when …” with daily readings and lessons over the next one hundred days, this book will show you how to drop the nonsense (and frustration) and reclaim health and fitness to make it the empowering lifestyle it’s meant to be. (paid links.) click here to get the paperback on amazon. click here to get the kindle version on amazon. six-month course the beautiful badass lab a six-phase strength training program. get a new four-week program (complete with exercise-demonstration videos and printable workouts logs) delivered to your inbox each month, for six months. if you want a completely done-for-you workout program every four weeks that includes a variety of exercises to keep you motivated, this is the program for you. the beautiful badass lab includes exercise-demonstrations videos, membership to the private facebook group for support, and printable workout logs. “i’ve had such success with this program and find it so easy to stay on track … i can’t say enough how much this has all changed my life.” -charlotte click here for more information. workout programs — choose your goal don’t want a six-month program that delivers a new workout every four weeks? below are workout programs for specific goals (body transformation, strength building) and preferences (time-saving workouts, dumbbell-only workouts). you can build a leaner, stronger body in just 48 workouts. if you’ve been working out and eating well, but your body isn’t changing, this is the program for you. this is a 12-week system for those beyond the beginners stages of strength training who can dedicate to working out four times per week who want to lose fat and build muscle. you’ll get everything you need to change how your body looks in 12 weeks: a done-for-you workout program, starter guide, nutrition guide, exercise-demonstration videos, spreadsheet trackers. click here for more information. you don’t have a lot of time to spend at the gym … or perhaps you simply don’t want to spend a lot of time working out. if that describes you, then the time-saver program is what you need. this is the program for the individual who wants to achieve great results with just three 30-minute workouts per week. choose from the 8-week time-saver program or the advanced package that includes an advanced rest/pause time-saver program. everything you need is included: easy-to-understand instructions, printable workout logs, and exercise-demonstration videos. click here for more information. want to do something empowering that makes you feel great about yourself? get stronger and discover the amazing things your body can do. the strong 14-week strength program is designed to build a stronger deadlift and bench press, and secondarily the squat. the program calls for 3 workouts per week and uses mostly barbell exercises. it’s a done-for-you program complete with clear instructions, printable workout logs, exercise-demonstration videos, and spreadsheet trackers. click here for more information. do you have a set of dumbbells at home? do you need workouts you can do with minimum equipment? or do you simply prefer dumbbell exercises? if so, this is the guide for you. the dumbbell strength training guide includes an 8-week dumbbell strength training program and a 4-week time-crunch program. both programs include clean, easy-to-use workout logs and a complete exercise-demonstration video index. click here for more information. do you need workouts you can do at home with minimal or no equipment? bodyweight workouts are a great option when you can’t make it to the gym for a while. because of the global pandemic, the two bodyweight workout packages have been reduced in price by over 60% to make them more accessible. you can get each package for just $5 or $10. click here for more information. what’s best for you? would you like maximum variety with your workouts and a place you can ask questions and get support directly from nia? want to look forward to receiving a new workout every four weeks for the next six months? you want the beautiful badass lab. are you mostly interested in changing how your body looks and can you work out four times per week? do you want to lose fat and build muscle with a done-for-you program that requires zero guesswork? then get revamp. are you mostly interested in what your body can do and want to get stronger with barbell exercises while working out three days per week? then get strong. do you need workouts you can complete in as little as 30 minutes? do you prefer to work out just three times per week? then the time-saver program is what you want. do you have access to nothing but a variety of dumbbells (or an adjustable dumbbell set) and an adjustable weight bench? the dumbbell strength training guide is for you. lift like a girl apparel tank tops, t-shirts, hooded sweatshirts, posters, mugs, and more are now available. this is a glimpse at what is currently available: designs available on a variety of items (tank tops, t-shirts, hooded sweatshirts). click here to get your lift like a girl apparel and accessories. disclaimer: nia shanks is not a doctor. the workout programs, books, and courses here should not be taken as medical advice. they are not meant to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any health issues and should not replace the advice of a physician. consult your primary care physician regarding health issues. application of the information provided in the workouts, courses, and books is at your own risk. footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store