home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag niall horan 12 posts have a read the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment when will dagny stop being amazing. have a read the briefing new music friday: poppy goes metal, raye gets conversational, pitbull reworks a summer hit, and more… also features a song about madonna, which is nice. have a read the briefing new music friday: rita ora at the top, a 'veritable' jamboree of q4 madness elsewhere includes a kelly clarkson christmas song. have a read the briefing petition for louis tomlinson to call his album 'clint' long story short, niall horan's new album is called 'fucker'. have a read the briefing little mix's 'touch' won last night's 2017 popjustice twenty quid music prize! here's what happened… sixty judges, loads of booze, one winner. have a read the news niall horan, lorde and grimes (!) all won awards at last night's much music video awards an awards do has happened and some people have won some things. have a read the briefing niall horan isn't going to sit on your fucking chair his new rolling stone shoot hints at severe furniturephobia have a read the briefing the important matter of comparing all one direction solo launch singles via a graph because everybody likes a graph. have a read the news niall horan's greg kurstin-produced debut solo single is called 'this town' and it's online right now in quite surprising news let's be honest, niall 'niall' horan has chucked his greg kurstin-produced debut single 'this town' onto all the usual streaming platforms etc. there's also a — wait… have a read the news niall horan is apparently going to be working with greg kurstin on some solo stuff kurstin certainly knows one end of a decent tune from the other. welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits mutya keisha siobhan: their amazingness is legally binding the full-length actual mutya keisha siobhan interview troye sivan interview: "i feel more fully-realised as a person" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled