skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports about nick and side hustle nation every day i’m hustling… hello! nick loper here, chief side hustler at side hustle nation. i’m an entrepreneur involved in a variety of projects. like any business, it has its ups and downs, which can be stressful, but i learn something new every day. i started this site because i believe in the hustle. after all, what’s riskier: starting a business, or relying on your job as your only source of income? i used to work full-time for a giant corporation, but i built my biz nights and weekends. you can do it too. everyone has their own reasons to side hustle: earn more money pay off debt learn new skills use free time more productively escape the rat race i believe in you. whatever your reason, i’m here to help. this site literally hundreds of side hustle ideas. it showcases my successes and failures, as well as the actionable lessons from dozens of fellow side hustle entrepreneurs. this is about the experiments along the way, the journey. but it’s also about building a future of real financial freedom. you can steer your own financial destiny. take the first step and join the side hustle nation community for free here. creation, connection, and contribution here’s a deeper look about what this brand of entrepreneurship is all about. won’t you join me? yes, i’m a hustler! 25 random facts about nick: if you speak to me in spanglish and/or simpsons quotes, i’ll understand you. i’m a former swimmer, fast skier, bad golfer, and rec softball player. my entrepreneurial journey began selling baseball cards at the end of the driveway and candy at summer camp. after 11 years of dating, i married my high school sweetheart. even though we’ve lived in california for almost 10 years, we still love seattle sports and rock our 206 numbers. i once took cold showers for 500 days in a row. i hate the word “deserve.” i know way more about shoes than anyone should. i once swallowed my gum during a bubble gum bubble-blowing contest. i was just chewing so hard to soften that thing up, and next thing i knew, i had to make the walk of shame back to my mom. i never expected to own a yoga mat. i’m addicted to gum and chapstick. i get anxious leaving the house without both. if i could pick one superpower, it would be flying. i’ve wanted a flying car ever since i saw back to the future as a kid. i am lucky enough to work from home, get some miles in on my treadmill desk, and keep mochi, our giant shih-tzu, company. i suck at saran wrap. i’ve never seen shark tank, lost, empire, scandal, game of thrones, breaking bad, sons of anarchy, or whatever other shows are popular, but i have seen the sandlot and major league dozens of times. i’ve been to 25 countries on 6 continents and believe a passport full of stamps is way better than a garage full of stuff. i once broke my arm throwing a baseball. true story. snapped the humerus right in half. you know those one-size-fits-all hats? they’re always too big for me. i am decisively indecisive. i love productivity, but have never used evernote. there are few things i dislike more than ironing. i can’t turn my right wrist all the way over because of an elementary school monkey bar accident. i rarely wash fruit before i eat it, and i’m still alive. i know, a regular evel knievel over here. i’m on a very slow quest to visit every major league stadium. i’ve been to 19 out of 30 so far. i still don’t know what i want to be when i grow up. i also publish quarterly progress reports about what’s going on in my life and business. and a few pet peeves… $9 beers. people who insist on introducing themselves with a middle initial. scary movies. what’s the point? people who steal. hotels that still charge for wifi. parking lot “waiters.” you know, those people who creep along waiting for someone with a choice spot to pull out. or worse, the ones who will stalk you all the way to your car. just find another spot. litterbugs. “mealy” apples. second hand smoke. valet parking. i really just feel naked without my keys. but my biggest pet peeve is seeing people live unhappy lives when they have complete control over their futures. by visiting this page today, you’re already one step ahead. so, what’s next? i’m so glad you asked. 3 ways to join the nation join the 60,000+ fellow hustlers who get my best stuff via email. no spam ever, unsubscribe any time. join the free side hustle nation facebook community. you’ll find a helpful and supportive group of people who “get” you. subscribe to the side hustle show for actionable and inspiring part-time business tips every week. hustle on! -nick like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok