got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... nick lachey gave this 98 degrees hit an educational coronavirus remix! home › nick lachey › nick lachey gave this 98 degrees hit an educational coronavirus remix! 98 degrees fans, gather round! nick lachey just dropped a new track!! well, kind of! the boy band singer just gave the group’s hit 1999 song the hardest thing a 2020 remix with a coronavirus twist. related: lady gaga delays ‘chromatic’ album release due to coronavirus the pop track, which is about a man torn between his significant other and his mistress, is about being stuck between social distancing and going outside. in the tune, he says goodbye to his mistress and sticks with his significant other. obviously, the remix is about choosing self-quarantine to keep others safe over going outside, with the new lyrics: “we both know that we shouldn’t be here. this feels wrong. and baby it’s killing me, it’s killing you. telling us we gotta stay home, we got somewhere else to be, other friends to see. but if we go outside right now we might spread the disease. so i’ve made up my mind, i’m staying in the house. it’s time to quarantine ’cause staying safe is what it’s all about.” the father of three continues, belting out the chorus: “yeah, it’s the hardest thing we’ve ever had to do. to stay stuck in our house, just watchin’ all this bad news. it’s the hardest thing we’ve ever had to try. to stay six feet apart when we go outside.” he also sings in way too sexy a tone: “nothing to do, no sports on tv. washed my hands so much that they started to bleed. damn this quarantine. i’s the hardest thing we’ve ever had to do. but in the end it’s worth it, together we will get though.” well, at least give the full video a watch (below): view this post on instagram when the hardest thing we’ve ever had to do…. is stay home. a post shared by nick lachey (@nicklachey) on mar 23, 2020 at 5:49pm pdt we’re so here for the trip down memory lane!! thanks for the nostalgia, nick! related: jojo’s new rendition of her hit song is the new coronavirus anthem fans of mr. lachey have something else to rejoice over: the renewal of love is blind! as you’re likely aware, he hosts the reality dating series with his wife vanessa lachey. but here’s the hardest thing, the new season isn’t coming to netflix until 2021. along with love is blind, a new season of the circle, rhythm + flow, and a brand new series starring marie kondo are also on the way. but for now, there’s plenty coming to the streaming service next month worth watching! will u be singing nick’s remix while you wash your hands and clean your houses, perezcious music lovers?! sound off (below) in the comments!! [image via fayesvision/wenn & 98 degrees/youtube.] related posts vanessa & nick lachey admit plenty of ‘shower sex’ keeps their marriage going strong! hoda kotb says she was ‘confused’ after awkward vanessa lachey & jessica simpson gift drama! jessica simpson settles the vanessa lachey baby gift drama for good! vanessa lachey defends ‘super awkward’ response about sending jessica simpson a gift — and shades hoda kotb!! click click click next article next article mar 24, 2020 3:38pm pdt share this categories coronavirus instagram music minute netflix nick lachey nostalgia reality tv view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy