home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog must have gym bags march 28, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment every fitness-ista needs a cute gym bag! i wanted to put together a list of my favorite gym bags at the moment. there are so many to choose from but these are a few of my faves. a. women's nike brasilia 6 medium duffel bag ($54) this is the bag i currently use. it's really bright and cute and fits a lot of stuff. b. under armour ua hustle storm sm duffle bag ($34.99) … [read more...] a bachelorette party & building my shoulders march 25, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy tuesday everyone!! i hope everyone's having a great start to their week. it's march 25th and it's snowing here...whaaaaaaaaaaat? so strange and i don't like it one bit. i hope you're ready for the most random post in the world. it's a collection of what i've been up to lately and what clothes i've been digging lately too :) check out this new outfit that i got … [read more...] friday freebies – quest bar & truvia! february 28, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment the last time i posted some freebies, i got excellent feedback from it so i figured i'd post a couple more for you today! here are my friday freebies for today plus some excellent deals i found around the web on items i know you'll like! free quest bar sample i literally just got done eating a chocolate brownie quest protein bar. warm it up for 15 seconds and it's … [read more...] fit fashion – erin’s fab fit finds february 3, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment after searching the internet for all the newest fitness gear, i've created a list with a few of my favorites for this month. let me know which one is your favorite by leaving a comment below the post! fit fashion by live life active. a - lucy run around tank: $59 b - secretsee hoodie: $49.99 c - perfect core halter: $65 d - stunner capris: $59.99 e - nike … [read more...] fit fashion finds december 18, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment hey guys! here's an amazingly cute workout outfit i'm in love with. it will keep you warm and cute this winter! fit fashion finds a. this under armour sports bra is an essential to your wardrobe. it's got style and you can rock it under just about anything! b. i'm all about long sleeve baseball tees this season. the pink and grey under armour crew neck shirt is … [read more...] nike free shield shoes review october 10, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment as you guys all know, i like to see a new bright orange nike box over a tiffany's blue box any day. yeah i may not be a normal girl, but i just love nike shoes that much! i am lucky enough to be partnered with finish line and they sent me a new pair of nikes to review. oh the anticipation of opening that beautiful orange box!!! i had no idea what they sent … [read more...] nibble cake pan and some adorable shoes on my wish list october 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i just had to share a couple items from my wish list with you guys today. i just saw this amazing little invention and thought it was such a great idea! it's called the nibble cake pan made by quirky. (image source) how many times have you baked a delicious cake and want to taste it to make sure it's okay but don't want to destroy your masterpiece? no one wants to … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] my long weekend june 25, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment today is my first day back to work since last wednesday. i sooo enjoyed having a few days off from work. i liked it so much, i think i'm ready to retire. wouldn't that be nice! my weekend started wednesday after work. we headed to my boyfriend's hometown to meet his nephew for the first time. he was so stinkin' adorable!! thursday night i was able to just lay low and … [read more...] summer sprints workout may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i figured it was about time to post another one of my hiit workouts. i needed a new treadmill sprint workout that would get me beach body ready for the summer! this is a tough workout that puts your legs to work! do this workout on a treadmill. set your treadmill to an incline of 1%. begin by warming up at a 3.8 speed for 2 minutes. after the 2 minute warm-up, … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in