home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog nike free shield shoes review october 10, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment as you guys all know, i like to see a new bright orange nike box over a tiffany's blue box any day. yeah i may not be a normal girl, but i just love nike shoes that much! i am lucky enough to be partnered with finish line and they sent me a new pair of nikes to review. oh the anticipation of opening that beautiful orange box!!! i had no idea what they sent … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] my long weekend june 25, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment today is my first day back to work since last wednesday. i sooo enjoyed having a few days off from work. i liked it so much, i think i'm ready to retire. wouldn't that be nice! my weekend started wednesday after work. we headed to my boyfriend's hometown to meet his nephew for the first time. he was so stinkin' adorable!! thursday night i was able to just lay low and … [read more...] summer sprints workout may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i figured it was about time to post another one of my hiit workouts. i needed a new treadmill sprint workout that would get me beach body ready for the summer! this is a tough workout that puts your legs to work! do this workout on a treadmill. set your treadmill to an incline of 1%. begin by warming up at a 3.8 speed for 2 minutes. after the 2 minute warm-up, … [read more...] it wasn’t sweat, it was liquid awesome march 9, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments happy friday!!! this was such a weird week because i took monday off because of my stitches in my hand and then i was in a training class tues-thursday. this is my first day of being back to normal. this weekend in indianapolis, we have the big 10 basketball tournament. you can bet that my boyfriend has "boys weekend". i'm going to find my own fun this weekend...without … [read more...] jeggings and a shopping addiction december 5, 2011 by erin weiss 4 comments friday was pretty much the only productive day of my weekend. i left work early and did day 53 - shoulders. i had a great workout. i love when you feel strong and are able to keep pushing yourself more and more. that's how i felt friday. it was also probably because it was friday and i was in a good mood. i still can't build up muscle in my shoulders. it's been a very … [read more...] drop sets on day 33 november 11, 2011 by erin weiss 2 comments two things are super special today. first, it's friday!!! happy friday! second, i just realized i've now posted 100 posts to my blog! i appreciate anyone who is reading. i feel like it's a big accomplishment for a blogger :) hopefully i'll have many, many more. yesterday i completed day 33 of je livefit trainer. it was a shoulders and cardio day. my shoulders were burning … [read more...] losing it with jillian june 2, 2010 by erin weiss 3 comments did anyone get a chance to watch jillian's new show called losing it with jillian? i watched about half of it and shut it off. i was pretty excited about a new show by jillian because i appreciate her workout ethic, dvds, ifit cards, and her show, the biggest loser. they have always been very hard and rewarding. i wasn't a fan of this show because it seemed like all she did … [read more...] race for the cure recap april 19, 2010 by erin weiss 9 comments i completed my first 5k and am sooooo proud of myself and my results!!! i ended up running it in about 27:20!!! way better than i thought i'd do. let's rewind a little... saturday morning was the earliest i've woken up on a weekend in a long long time. it was 10 minutes earlier than i usually wake up for work! i was excited though, so it made it easier to get outta bed. … [read more...] grinding big april 14, 2010 by erin weiss 6 comments first off, thanks to everyone for helping on my bridal shower outfit that i still have yet to buy. i think i'm going to go tonight or tomorrow to pick it up. if they have my size, i'll get it and wear it with a white cardigan and white flippy floppys to dress it down. i went back to w. g. grinders at lunch but this time i took my man. i haven't really mentioned much detail … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in