0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 no equivalent every time a word appears in another language, something gets lost in translation. here's what's missing. featured mongrassano, italy jeanna lucci canapari caccata mongrassano, italy jeanna lucci canapari caccata comes from the verb caccare, “to shit,” and when you are caccata, you are full of it. shit, that is. mongrassano, italy jeanna lucci canapari madrid, spain jed gottlieb la movida madrid, spain jed gottlieb excess killed many of la movida’s heroes but some just quit playing music. madrid, spain jed gottlieb thimphu, bhutan michael dirosa nyongdrol thimphu, bhutan michael dirosa creamy and savory, with a sweetness redolent of french vanilla ice cream—such a dreamlike experience had me wondering if this was finally the manifestation of nyongdrol. thimphu, bhutan michael dirosa kathmandu, nepal julia thomas eklai kathmandu, nepal julia thomas mornings were hot, dust rising under persistent traffic, easily tempered by warm afternoon rains. the small ganesh statue carved into the wall along a hill near my house harbored an audience of candles with damp wicks. kathmandu, nepal julia thomas wales / sri lanka kumari tilakawardane hiraeth wales / sri lanka kumari tilakawardane being biracial comes with a unique set of quandaries, and for me hiraeth has always been chief among them. wales / sri lanka kumari tilakawardane beijing, china emma goldberg ma shang beijing, china emma goldberg a chinese century, my brother tells me, is just a blip. dynasties rise and fall, wars are waged and emperors killed. hours or decades pass while the men sit out by the canals. beijing, china emma goldberg nkinnen, gabon danial adkison madzona nkinnen, gabon danial adkison the expectation that you had a right to be heard, no matter what, seemed audacious, even arrogant. the line between confidence and arrogance, of course, depends on the perspective of the listener, and that staccato spirit of madzona plucked my insecurities. nkinnen, gabon danial adkison osaka, japan jon arlan natsukashii osaka, japan jon arlan where nostalgia expresses a longing to return to time or place when things were good, it is tinged with melancholy, even sadness and anxiety. natsukashii, on the other hand, is absent this gloominess and suggests something slightly different: a happiness to be remembering a happy memory. osaka, japan jon arlan galicia, spain olaya barr chuches galicia, spain olaya barr occasionally, i would exaggerate stories of california to entertain my summer friends, but i felt uncomfortable with the responsibility of relaying all the nuances of american culture and uncomfortable that they didn’t see me as a fellow spaniard. galicia, spain olaya barr ontario, canada amber meadow adams pajogan ontario, canada amber meadow adams the man driving next to me put his foot down hard on the gas, and we pulled even with the black truck. sleek but dirty, new but dented deep, the truck was expensive. ontario, canada amber meadow adams cuba judy bolton-fasman trastienda cuba judy bolton-fasman each person has a trastienda within them: a place my cuban mother described whereby secrets thrill the day and deepen the night. cuba judy bolton-fasman somalia rachel pieh jones faq somalia rachel pieh jones i listened to the word dozens of times during a single broadcast, sometimes succumbing to giggles. such is the mental exhaustion caused by straining to learn a language with no classes and little written material. or, the emotional exhaustion of trying to faq out a life as an alien in a new land. somalia rachel pieh jones germany richard deming katzensprünge germany richard deming i read german the way i might read a poem—testing every word for its meaning and implication. germany richard deming germany sophie haigney fernweh germany sophie haigney i remember his house exactly, although i’ve never been. germany sophie haigney read more in the studio get the "dear stranger" newsletter. each week, a real letter in your inbox. email address write me thank you! "at the edges of language, caught between here and elsewhere, there is hope that if we look out of the corners of our eyes, we can sometimes catch the metaphors lying round about, hidden in the most ordinary words, in wait for the possibility of surprise." —richard deming © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com