login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts no gym? no problem! jimmy the engineer’s epic transformation. by steve kamb • last updated: march 5, 2020 • 0 comments “holy crap, jimmy!” it’s amazing what can happen in 12 months with the right plan! this is jimmy, an aeronautical engineer from atlanta who is currently getting his master’s in aerospace engineering. he joined our online coaching program in early 2019 and let us know he had a dream of being able to dress up and cosplay as spider-man (photo below). (as somebody who used to dress up like superman 4 days a week, i get it.) jimmy’s situation had some interesting wrinkles: he works a full-time job and is studying to become an aerospace engineer. he was a self-described “picky eater” and wasn’t sure how to fix his diet. he had worked out in the past, but didn’t enjoy going to the gym. to that, we said, “well, jimmy, let’s get to work.” (cue the training montage and spider-man music!) how jimmy got in shape coach justin from team nerd fitness created a specific program for jimmy called “operation holland.” you know, like tom holland, the actor who plays spider-man. justin and jimmy worked hand-in-hand (well, virtually anyway) through the nerd fitness app to build a program that fit jimmy’s busy life. 12 months later…you be the judge. i’d say “operation holland” was a success! here are the 4 big changes that helped jimmy make the most progress: #1) nutrition is everything: in his own words: “really shows that fixing the diet is the most important thing. i’ve worked out a decent amount for months before but never got close to this.”⁣⁣⁠⠀ coach justin created a nutritional strategy for jimmy that worked around his picky eating, which provided enough protein for muscle building, and helped him stay full while also losing fat. ⠀ #2) no gym required: jimmy trained in his home with just bodyweight exercises, some dumbbells, and gymnastic rings. ⁣⁠⠀ this style of training can build muscle, it just needs to be done with the right intention and intensity! for example, not just doing more push-ups, but switching to decline push-ups to make them harder.⁣⁠⠀ jimmy started with push-ups and squats, but now he’s doing advanced gymnastic moves like the front lever!⁣⁠⠀ #3) prioritize yourself: jimmy has been with our program for a year now, and knew this transformation wouldn’t happen overnight. he stayed the course, focused on his nutrition, and put in the time.⁣ it’s really easy to get sidetracked or give up when things get challenging, especially if life becomes hectic. i’m proud of jimmy for choosing himself and sticking with it! #4) consistency and adherence: we often overestimate what we can do in a day, and underestimate what we can accomplish in a year. you can do amazing things in a year…if you can stick with it for the entire year! a transformation like this requires focus to follow a plan, especially when bored or busy, and the discipline to get right back on track after a speed bump.⁠ fortunately, jimmy had confidence in his coach’s plan, and all he had to do was follow the path! i’m really proud of what jimmy accomplished in the nf coaching program, and i’d love to help you transform too. where will you be in 12 months? think back to where you were at the start of 2019: have you hit your goals and seen progress, or have you run into a few speed bumps? have you made considerable steps forward, or do you feel stuck in the mud? if it’s the former, great! keep doing what you’re doing! if it’s the latter, that’s okay too! life is tough. sh** happens. and circumstances change! maybe you had a kid, or changed jobs, or adopted a puppy, and life got hectic. maybe you just had a crappy 2019 and couldn’t make any changes stick. now, i have another question for you: when you email me in 2021, how will you have changed? more importantly, what are you going to do differently to actually make results stick? if i may be so bold, maybe you’ll come to the conclusion you don’t want to go on this weight-loss or muscle building journey alone. (i’ve worked with an online coach for 5 years now). you want a yoda. a real master who can show you the ways of the force. luckily, we have a team of jedi masters who do this stuff all day, every day: we have kick-ass coaches that create nerdy-themed programs for our clients. for clients willing to put in the effort, we get amazing results. we offer worldwide accountability and support. our coaches provide insight beyond just “do this workout” or “eat broccoli.” you can get that for free on the internet. we provide insight, expert guidance, and have the experience of coaching thousands of busy clients to success. we actually get results. we tailor each program to each client. single moms, students, scientists, world-traveling doctors, we’ve worked with people from all walks of life. we go at the pace each client needs. we save clients from themselves. we all have that voice in our head that tells us to give up, that things are too hard, that we should “hit pause until life gets unbusy.” we also all know that this “pause” strategy never works – because life doesn’t have a pause button. but dang, the voice in our head is very persuasive. fortunately, this is what we do best: help clients essentially save themselves…from themselves. if you are ready to jump into battle with one of our jedi masters in your pocket (through the nf coaching app, not literally)… we’d love to hear about your journey, your struggles, and how we can help. as they say, the best time to plant a tree is 20 years ago. the second best time is now! if 2019 didn’t go the way you wanted it to, let us help you make 2020 different. learn more about nerd fitness coaching for the rebellion! -steve ps: seriously, jimmy is awesome. holy moly. get the rebel starter kit enter your email and we’ll send it right over. the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. the most effective diet and why it works. complete your first workout today, no gym required. these are the tools you need to start your quest. site signup url signup post id site signup url signup post id classic posts welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy