video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map finding customers not all clients are good for business. here's how to find the ones who are. customers who don't value your work appropriately are a financial and emotional drain. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: skynesher | getty images kimanzi constable vip contributor consultant and lifetime entrepreneur march 10, 2020 5 min read opinions expressed by entrepreneur contributors are their own. new customers and consistent sales are what build businesses. so naturally, you might assume that any paying customer is a good customer. but that's not so. if you have been an entrepreneur for any amount of time, there's no doubt you have had customers you regretted onboarding. they want more than they pay for, are always complaining, derailing your focus, and taking up too much time. if you’re going to experience record growth this year, don't take on just any clients. make sure you’re building your customer base with ideal clients. clients that make business fun no matter what kind of business you’re building, working with your ideal target client will make the work feel easier. you’ll be excited about customer calls, you’ll feel challenged mentally (in a good way), and your business will flourish because you’ll be spending your time doing what brings you fulfillment. ideal clients pay more and understand the value of what you offer. the thing is, to fill your client roster with ideal customers requires some clarity on your part. you have to know who your ideal client is and have a clear understanding of what makes them the right fit for your business. related: 4 reasons why raising your price is a brilliant marketing move a different path to client acquisition it's not uncommon to see entrepreneurs or even organizations looking to get products or services for a ridiculously low prices. the creation of fiverr, canva, upwork, and other freelancer platforms has entrepreneurs thinking they can get products and services to build their business for peanuts — or that they can create them on their own. for you, as the entrepreneur or business providing these types of products and services, it can be deeply frustrating. you're doing good work and want to be paid for the value you provide. the issue is that you're looking for business in the wrong places. your goal should be to reach potential customers that understand the value of what you provide. you should be targeting an "unaware" customer base. on the internet, everybody knows everything and they think they can get it done for close to free. too many businesses are making money but not building anything real, or lasting. they don't understand the value of investing back into what they're building. that's why things like personal development coaching are not prioritized, even though they should be. that's why graphics, websites, sales copy, and common business necessities like liability insurance, an attorney, an accountant (and so on) aren't utilized by a majority of entrepreneurs. these are all essential components in a solid business, but they're not seen as a necessary. the type of people who have this mindset are not your ideal clients. the person whose first question is, “how much will it cost?” is not your ideal client. stop chasing my message is simple: stop chasing customers who don't get it. don’t get involved with clients who think that r.o.i. is simply a dollar amount they can get back from working with you. target a customer base to create awareness of what you do and why it's important. when you create awareness and offer a solution to the awareness you’ve created, you’re reaching the best type of client. you can create that awareness through the content you publish on social media, on your blog, through your email list, in media appearances, and by showing up in your local community. this is nurture marketing at its finest. you’re adding value, building trust, and showing expertise in the places that bring consumers to you — instead of you chasing them. related: 6 types of clients you're better off without get clarity if you don’t know who your ideal target customer is, that should be your first homework assignment. figure out: who they are what they do what their pain points are where they do business where they spend time online how they speak that clarity helps you map out a strategy to reach your ideal client in the places they are and in the way they’ll respond to. it will make them feel like you're talking directly to them. don't worry about excluding those who are not the right fit. your goal should be to become a big fish in a little pond, and a little research will show you where better potential customers are. building a business is about more than sales numbers. your goal should be to build something you enjoy, and attract clients you enjoy working with. don't spend any of your time hustling to prove your worth to clients that aren’t the right fit. save your energy for the ones who deserve you. related: don't let your business be held hostage by a nightmare client more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now are you paying too much for business insurance? do you have critical gaps in your coverage? trust entrepreneur to help you find out. get your quote now related books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on the science of success buy from entrepreneur voices on the science of success buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on growth hacking buy from entrepreneur voices on growth hacking buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the innovation mentality buy from the innovation mentality buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to platform building buy from ultimate guide to platform building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account finding customers how to acquire the first 20 customers for your startup finding customers learn expert strategies to increase your client network for less than $20 finding customers this simple change can make more prospects say "yes" to your offers finding customers in order for your business to grow, you need to turn down customers starting a business 21 ways to bring in the business