skip to content notes on liberty spontaneous thoughts on a humble creed menu home about the consortium consulting geopolitical strategy and risk tridivesh singh maini grant writing kevin kallmes longform essays libertarians and pragmatists on democracy why republican libertarianism? myths of sovereignty and british isolation institutions, machines, and complex orders legal immigration into the united states poverty under democratic socialism the state in education three lessons on institutions and incentives protectionism; free trade, step by step about the notewriters shree agnihotri alexander albrecht ethan blevins joakim book brandon christensen lode cossaer nick cowen mary lucia darst andre van doren jacques delacroix lucas g. freire vincent geloso edwin van de haar kevin kallmes mark koyama michelango landgrave chhay lin lim adrián lucardi ash navabi tridivesh singh maini bill rein bruno gonçalves rosi barry stocker federico sosa valle aris trantidis derrill watson rick weber zak woodman andrei znamenski guest notewriters recommendations be our guest elizabeth warren's degrading diversity plans government: the great post-christian swindle how to make brexit really worthwhile – example: regulation dealing with information asymmetries how to make brexit really worthwhile – example: financial regulation liberty, government, and technology: 2019 of monies and juries and freedoms privacy in a shared world: vacillating on vaccines propaganda & prejudice: black lives matter sailing a catholic ship on modern seas suing juul won’t solve anything the u.s. economy: a fading illusion? what’s the voter’s value? eco’s ‘how to eat ice cream’ 03/27/2020 mary lucia darst liberty a friend recently gifted me a vintage copy of some of umberto eco’s essays translated to english. one of the essays, titled “how to eat ice cream,” opened with an anecdote eco said was based on his childhood. in the story, there was an ice cream vendor who sold regular cones for two cents and ice cream pie cones for four cents. eco said his parents and grandmother would buy him which ever type he requested, but there was a limit. young eco envied the neighbor children who would parade down the street carrying a regular cone in each hand. but whenever he asked for four cents to buy two cones, the adults would flatly refuse and tell him that he could have a pie cone instead. as an adult, he mused: […] i realize that those dear and now departed elders were right. two two-cent cones instead of one at four cents did not signify squandering, economically speaking, but symbolically they surely did. it was for this precise reason that i yearned for them: because two ice creams suggested excess. and this was precisely why they were denied me: because they looked indecent, an insult to poverty, a display of fictitious privilege, a boast of wealth. […] and parents who encouraged this weakness, appropriate to little parvenus, were bringing up their children in the foolish theatre of “i’d like to but i can’t.” they were preparing them to turn up at tourist-class check-in with a fake gucci bag bought from a street peddler on the beach at rimini. the parenting method must have worked because he became umberto eco. what eco recognized was that his parents had inoculated him against false consumerist behavior. the preventative measures were not against the so-called consumerist society but ostentatious display, the process of “keeping up with the joneses.” around january 2018, there was a meme floating around social media. it said something along the lines of “entrepreneur: someone who lives a few years the way most people won’t so that they can spend the rest of their lives living the way most people can’t.” i very belatedly discovered carl schramm’s 2004 book the entrepreneurial imperative. schramm identified the 1950s as the time when american society ceased valorizing business ownership and virtuous risk in favor of material security. as part of the “security first” mentality, children and young people were openly discouraged from seeking independence or from being different in a positive way. the world was one of ossification and stagnation, even as the federal government and media pushed a strong keynesian message of “consume to grow.” on a side note, now that i think about it, keynesian economics resemble the children’s video game snake: one guides the snake to food so that it will grow but eventually it becomes so big that it bites itself – game over. even given the massive propaganda effort put into promoting keynesian theories, scapegoating “consumerism” or “consumerist society” is a form of escapist thought, a dodging of responsibility. eco spotted the cause and effect nature of being a parvenu. the desire for “fictitious privilege” creates a set of priorities that cause one to spend his wherewithal thoughtlessly. in turn a “boast of wealth” strategy leads to “’i’d like to but i can’t’” through ensuring that there is no money when real opportunity arrives. the world becomes one of abundant middle as the effort to possess everything spirals. share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a comment nightcap 03/26/202003/26/2020 brandon christensen links hong kong, price gouging, slavery, uganda don’t wait for the government, diy karen grépin, duck of minerva actually, we need price gouging antonis giannakopoulos, power & market california, slavery, and the gold rush paul finkelman, larb wakaliwood, the homegrown ugandan film industry richard whittaker, austin chronicle share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a comment again: never reason from a fatality change 03/26/202003/26/2020 nick cowen economics, liberty, politics coronavirus, daily wire, epidemics, epidemiology, pandemics, public health the future isn’t written yet last week richard epstein predicted around 500 fatalities in the united states (i originally misread his estimate to be 50,000 for the us, not the whole world). his estimate was tragically falsified within days and he has now revised his estimate to 5,000. i still think that’s optimistic but i am hopeful for less than 50,000 deaths in the united states given the social distancing measures currently in place. today, several us peers have become excited about a daily wire article on comments by a british epidemiologist, neil ferguson. he has lowered his uk projections from 500,000 to 20,000 coronavirus fatalities. the article omits the context of the change. the original new scientist article (from which the daily wire is derivative with little original reporting) explains that the new fatality rate is partly due to a shift in our understanding of existing infections, but also a result of the social distancing measures introduced. the simple point is: never reason from a fatality rate, and never reason from a change in estimated fatalities policy interventions will change infection rates, alter future stresses on the health system, and (when they work) lower future projections of fatalities. when projections are lower, it is not necessarily because the coranavirus is intrinsically less deadly than believed but because appropriate responses have made it less deadly. share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a comment life 03/26/2020 nick cowen current events, law, liberty, philosophy, politics coronavirus, crime, life expectancy, morality, natural rights, pandemics, public health no matter how old, frail or vulnerable it may be, a life isn’t something to take or risk at another’s discretion. nor does it undermine culpability when someone dies as a result of negligence. the common law ‘eggshell skull’ rule reflects this moral principle. during the coronavirus pandemic, some erstwhile defenders of the famous non-aggression principle (nap) appear to have forgotten that natural rights are conceived to protect life as well as liberty and property. they seem to think that the liberties we ordinarily enjoy have priority over the right to life of others. the environment has changed and, for the time being, many activities that we previously knew to be safe for others are not. they are not part of our set of liberties until a reformed set of rules, norms and habits establishes a sufficiently hygienic public environment. to say that bans on public gatherings violate natural rights a priori is as untenable as g.a. cohen’s claim that a prohibition on walking onto a train without a valid ticket is a violation of one’s freedom. the clue for anarcho-capitalist state-sceptics that this is a genuine shift in social priorities is that even organized criminal gangs are willing to enforce social distancing. you do not have to believe that the state itself is legitimate to see that the need for social distancing is sufficiently morally compelling that it can be enforced absent free agreement, just as one does not need free agreement to exercise a right to self-defense. not every restriction is going to be justified, although erring on the restrictive side makes sense while uncertainty about the spread of infection persists. ultimately, restrictions have to balance genuine costs with plausible benefits. but rejecting restrictions on a priori grounds does not cohere with libertarian principles. right now, our absolute liberties extend to the right to be alone. everything else must be negotiated under uncertainty. someone else’s life, even two-weeks or so in the future, is a valid side-constraint on liberty. people can rightfully be made to stay at home if they are fortunate enough to have one. when people have to travel out of necessity, they can be temporarily exempted, compensated or offered an alternative reasonable means of satisfying their immediate needs. share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... 1 comment nightcap 03/25/202003/25/2020 brandon christensen links coronavirus, humanity, moorfield storey, thomas piketty human crap gabrielle hecht, aeon “so, as lenin asked, what is to be done?” howard davies, literary review what the democrats can learn from a dead libertarian lawyer damon root, reason the silk road, the black death, and covid-19 parag khanna, wired share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... 2 comments a ppe pandemic reading list 03/25/2020 lucas g. freire books, economics, history, liberty, philosophy, politics civil liberty, covid-19, ethics, f.a. hayek, rule of law, western culture i haven’t written for a while – other duties get in the way – but i’d like to suggest this reading list in philosophy, politics, and economics for the present time of crisis and perplexity. the main reason is that everyone seems to be an expert in economics, epidemiology, and political philosophy these days, assuming that from “facts” we can easily derive “values” and answer the question, “what is to be done?” i think this is at best a naïve attitude and at worst the same rationalistic hubris we experience everytime a political issue is simplified and reduced to a matter of “science”. yes, there are facts and they shouldn’t be ignored, but it’s not easy to decide what is to be done, morally and politically, in light of those facts. the first item on the list is leviathan by thomas hobbes. a classic, and a reminder that people choose all the time to sacrifice some degree of liberty in the altar of survival (or a chance to survive), but also a reminder that leviathan may turn from friend to foe, from protector to persecutor – and there is very little we can do about it. the second item is john locke’s second treatise of government, which then explores this topic in light of the fact that civil government shouldn’t have absolute power. it makes an attempt to show us how that power can, or should, be limited within a certain sphere of responsibility. though it’s still there to protect us. in this time of pandemic, people feel tempted to panic. people and politicians are calling for dramatic measures, and one reason is that the use of government coercion – which, according to locke, ought to be limited – might be necessary to force people to cooperate, for example, by staying home. this is a proposed solution to the dilemmas of collective action posed by the problem that some may “free-ride” on the rest, and, as a result, the disease will keep spreading, frustrating any attempt to slow it down. against dramatic, desperate and, perhaps, arrogant, use of political power, and in favor of prudence and wisdom, edmund burke’s collection of writings from the period of the french revolution can be a beacon of light. on the other hand, explaining the dilemmas of collective action and suggesting ways of solving them, mancur olson offers an insightful look at incentives and group behavior in the logic of collective action. however, the idea that government coercion is the only solution to dilemmas of collective action (such as imposing a quarantine, for example) doesn’t hold water. in fact, other economists follow olson in saying the problem is real and challenges a strict individualist way of thinking, but, adding to olson’s point, they also acknowledge the role of private action and sanctions in fostering cooperation. elinor ostrom’s governing the commons is a wonderful study that opens up a number of possibilities for private enforcing of collective action to preserve and promote the frugal allocation of common goods. this can be complemented by the quest for community, an overlooked work by sociologist robert nisbet, where it becomes clear that, between individuals, the state, and the market, there’s room for other associations and communities that strengthen civil society – particularly in this challenging time. nisbet’s lesson invites liberty-loving people to reflect on whether a hyper-individualistic view of the world ends up pitting helpess individuals against leviathan instead of offering the buffer zone of community in between. this is something alexis de tocqueville discussed in the 19th century. and just for the sake of dealing with the issue that “is” doesn’t easily lead to “ought”, and that science might have facts and an explanation for them, but does not easily conduce to a proper discussion on values policy, i must finish this ppe pandemic reading list with f. a. hayek’s the constitution of liberty. on chapter 4, for example, hayek introduces a constrast between “rationalist liberalism” and “anti-rationalist liberalism”. rationalist liberals assume too easily that knowledge of the facts on the ground will give them what they need to re-design a society governed by reason. hayek warns us against this technocratic assumption and offers a defence of “anti-rationalist liberalism”. anti-rationalist liberals understand the importance of spontaneous order and of constraining power (even at a time of crisis) while prudently balancing the values of liberty and safety in light of past experience and tradition. three additional readings: buzan, waever and de wilde, security: a new framework for analysis (1997). in a liberal democracy, the state steps in suspending some civil liberties only if it can persuade citizens that there’s a threat that justifies it. this book offers a framework to interpret how such threats are constructed in official and non-official discourse, and to what extent this construction of a threat can be effective. robert higgs, crisis and leviathan (2013). 25th anniversary edition. looks at us history and how government employed crises to its advantage and the advantage of the ruling elites. in particular, security and economy related issues are dealt with. sanford ikeda, dynamics of the mixed economy (2002). shows that a time of crisis might be a time for further interventionism in the economy, as higgs (see above) suggests, but might also be a time for disintervention, as seems to be the case with part of the agenda today (fda deregulation, etc.) this is based on ludwig von mises’ view that interventionist economies are not very stable and are always swinging as a pendulum between socialism and capitalism. share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... 2 comments the vexing libertarian issue of transition 03/25/202003/24/2020 jacques delacroix current events, philosophy adam smith, constitutionalism, democracy, libertarianism, somalia, transition, wisdom i have appointed myself an old sage to the world. when your knees are creaky and every snotty eighteen-year-old treats you patronizingly, the least you can do to compensate is award yourself wisdom. anyway, long story short, it’s a good excuse to spend much time on facebook. i feel i am rendering a public service. i am continuing my teaching career there. it’s unpaid but the conditions are much better and all the students actually want to be in class. of course, it’s also true that facebook is addictive. it’s not a bad addiction. for this old guy, it’s almost incredible to have frequent conversations with an md in pakistan, my niece in india, an old girlfriend in panama, a young friend’s wife in japan, and of course, many different kinds of french people. i even have a facebook friend who lives in the mountains of algeria; we have lively talks in french. recently, a young woman who described herself as a myanmar village girl reached out. (i know what you are thinking but if she is really one of those internet sex trolls, i salute the originality of her marketing strategy.) at all times a day and night, i have at least one facebook friend who is not asleep. it’s pleasant in these days of confinement. the same confinement, perhaps, slows me down and makes me more likely to tally up everything. as a result, a new impression has pierced my consciousness. expressing contempt for democracy seems to be in vogue among people who identify as libertarians (with a small “l,” big “l” libertarians have nearly vanished from my world. it could just be me.) this contempt reminds me that i have been asking the same question of libertarianism for now about fifty years, all with not much success. i refer to the question of transition. i mean, what is it supposed to look like moving from wherever we are, in terms of governance, to a society with a drastically diminished government interference in individual lives? i have been receiving evasive answers, answers that don’t make even superficial sense, and swift escapes effected by changing the subject. let me say right away that i am not looking for a crushing reading assignment (a common punitive, passive-aggressive maneuver among intellectuals). mine is a simple question. one should be able to sketch a rudimentary answer to it. then, it would be up to me to follow through. then, no excuse! to my mind, there are only two extreme transition scenarios. one is the somali scenario. the state falls apart under its own incapacity to limit internal aggression. it disappears or nearly so. when the point is reached where government authority extends only three blocks from the presidential palace to the north and east, and one block from the south and east, you pretty much have a stateless society. goal reached! the second scenario is a gradual change from the current “democratic” arrangements. i mean by this fair and reasonably honest elections followed by a peaceful transfer of power. i mean freedom of expression. and, disturbingly, this also includes courts of law. this is disturbing because courts without enforcement of their decisions are not really courts. this fact implies the threat of coercion, of course. now, i can imagine a situation like right now with the corona virus epidemic when governments (plural) demonstrate on a large scale their inability to do the obvious. the citizens often react to this sort of demonstration by asking for better and more government. however, it does not have to be that way. the combination of wide communication through the internet and – like now – of enforced leisure – may switch the dial. it’s conceivable that large numbers will get the idea that government that is at once heavy-handed, expensive, and incapable is not a good answer to much of anything. with that scenario one can imagine a collective demand for less government. strangely, this sort of scenario may be on display in france now, as i write. well, this is not so strange after all. a deeply statist society where govt absorbs 55% of gdp and up may be exactly the best place to figure out that more government is not the answer. from this thought to the idea that less government may be the answer there is but one step. my intuition though is that it’s a big step. that’s because few people understand markets. no one but a handful of college professors seems to have read the moral philosopher adam smith. (tell me that i am wrong.) so, i would like for those who are more advanced than i am on this issue of transition (a low bar) to engage me. i am not interested in the same old ethical demonstrations though. yes, the state is an instrument of coercion and therefore, evil. i already know this. in the meantime, the first amendment to the constitution of the united states does a fair job of protecting my freedom of speech, my freedom, of thought, my freedom of religion. i am not eager to leave this behind for the complete unknown. are you? why? how? share this: click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) like this: like loading... 3 comments post navigation ← older posts search bar search for: follow us twitter facebook linkedin rss feed email updates enter your e-mail address, then click "the box" join 5,618 other followers "the box" discussion brandon christensen on nightcap jack curtis on nightcap the vexing libertarian issue of transition – rational review news digest on the vexing libertarian issue of transition again: never reason from a fatality change | notes on liberty on never reason from a fatality rate jack curtis on life york luethje on a ppe pandemic reading list thomas l. knapp on the vexing libertarian issue of transition kakatoa on a ppe pandemic reading list a history of plagues – rational review news digest on a history of plagues brandon christensen on nightcap popular notes a history of plagues life again: never reason from a fatality change eye candy: most popular porn categories, by country, in 2019 never reason from a fatality rate classic notes (christensen) colonialism: myths and realities (delacroix) legal immigration into the united states (weber) gun control: centralized vs. dispersed (geloso) a flaw regarding the chance of “out-earning” your parents (stocker) tacitus on barbarian liberty (rosi) the protestant reformation and freedom of conscience, ii (landgrave) what is a nation? (rein) white rappers and hip hop culture (lim) early childhood memories of a cambodian refugee camp (van de haar) classical liberalism and the nation state (sosa valle) three lessons on institutions and incentives (maini) the eu’s laudable asia connectivity strategy (cowen) public choice and market failure (book) mr. darcy’s ten thousand a year (woodman) libertarians and pragmatists on democracy (kallmes) the myth of the nazi war machine (koyama) the end of the past (darst) semiotics in national dialogue: an observation (blevins) spaghetti monsters and free exercise (navabi) three short stories on housing economics (watson) romance econometrics (albrecht) libertarianism and neoliberalism – a difference that matters? (freire) economics in the ancient world? (znamenski) “foucault’s pendulum”: social scholarship, ideology, and libertarian temptations (agnihotri) courts as modern civic churches? (lucardi) what is the best book about argentina? (cossaer) on the trade off between the rule of law and lower taxes (trantidis) rawls, antigone, and the tragic irony of norms our recent books blockchain basics book (2020) persecution and toleration: the long road to religious freedom (2019) rethinking canadian economic growth and development since 1900: the quebec case (2017) philosophy of the novel (2018) clientelism and economic policy: greece and the crisis (2016) degrees of freedom: liberal political philosophy and ideology (2015) kierkegaard on politics (2014) nietzsche as political philosopher (2014) rousseau on language and writing: two perspectives (2014) i used to be french: an immature autobiography (2014) les pumas de grande banlieue: histoires d'émigration (2014) du grand rattrapage au déclin tranquille: une histoire économique et sociale du québec de 1900 à nos jours (2013) do império ao estado: morfologias do sistema internacional (2013) bemind maar onbekend: de politieke filosofie van het liberalisme (2011) red shambhala: magic, prophecy, and geopolitics in the heart of asia (2011) classical liberalism and international relations theory: hume, smith, mises, and hayek (2009) in our notes american culture anarchism anthropology art history barack obama brazil brexit bureaucracy capitalism china christianity civil liberty climate change colonialism conservatism constitutionalism costs decentralization democracy donald trump economic development economic growth economic history economics ethics european union f.a. hayek federation france free speech free trade geopolitics germany globalization immigration imperialism india individualism inequality institutions international relations iran islam israel jacques delacroix knowledge problem liberalism libertarianism maps media studies nationalism palestine political thought populism property rights public choice theory racism realclearhistory republicanism rule of law russia scientific method secession socialism state sovereignty syria taxation terrorism turkey united kingdom united states war on drugs western culture notes from elsewhere policy of truth marginal revolution maggie's farm naked capitalism 3 quarks daily cafe hayek economist's view alphaville stumbling and mumbling alt-m econlog popehat catallaxy files murica derp pseudoerasmus worthwhile canadian initiative samizdata progressive geographies themoneyillusion askblog political theatre bleeding heart libertarians volokh conspiracy law & liberty uneasy money the skeptics overcoming bias all along the watchtower rational standard oxford words offsetting behaviour ottomans & zionists uncouth reflections less wrong goats and soda orgtheory mainly macro pragati power & market jacobite reality-based community crooked timber jacobin duck of minerva disorder of things lawyers, guns & money jhiblog lawfare angry bear archives of the notewriters jacques delacroix brandon christensen rick weber vincent geloso barry stocker bruno gonçalves rosi bill rein michelangelo landgrave edwin van de haar federico sosa valle chhay lin lim tridivesh singh maini nick cowen joakim book ethan blevins zak woodman mark koyama kevin kallmes mary lucia darst alexander albrecht ash navabi derrill watson lucas g. freire andrei znamenski shree agnihotri adrián lucardi lode cossaer aris trantidis archives archives select month march 2020 (48) february 2020 (47) january 2020 (57) december 2019 (48) november 2019 (53) october 2019 (53) september 2019 (39) august 2019 (52) july 2019 (42) june 2019 (60) may 2019 (49) april 2019 (48) march 2019 (68) february 2019 (63) january 2019 (79) december 2018 (60) november 2018 (71) october 2018 (70) september 2018 (57) august 2018 (55) july 2018 (66) june 2018 (55) may 2018 (79) april 2018 (70) march 2018 (63) february 2018 (53) january 2018 (21) december 2017 (16) november 2017 (21) october 2017 (15) september 2017 (16) august 2017 (29) july 2017 (23) june 2017 (21) may 2017 (28) april 2017 (40) march 2017 (26) february 2017 (31) january 2017 (40) december 2016 (48) november 2016 (38) october 2016 (22) september 2016 (19) august 2016 (26) july 2016 (12) june 2016 (22) may 2016 (26) april 2016 (23) march 2016 (14) february 2016 (20) january 2016 (27) december 2015 (25) november 2015 (23) october 2015 (26) september 2015 (24) august 2015 (17) july 2015 (30) june 2015 (31) may 2015 (23) april 2015 (24) march 2015 (27) february 2015 (22) january 2015 (24) december 2014 (24) november 2014 (30) october 2014 (30) september 2014 (28) august 2014 (27) july 2014 (30) june 2014 (38) may 2014 (41) april 2014 (42) march 2014 (38) february 2014 (53) january 2014 (46) december 2013 (51) november 2013 (47) october 2013 (48) september 2013 (31) august 2013 (36) july 2013 (48) june 2013 (33) may 2013 (50) april 2013 (27) march 2013 (61) february 2013 (32) january 2013 (35) december 2012 (31) november 2012 (27) october 2012 (33) september 2012 (44) august 2012 (66) july 2012 (36) june 2012 (25) may 2012 (23) april 2012 (35) march 2012 (34) february 2012 (28) january 2012 (17) blog at wordpress.com. notes on liberty blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel %d bloggers like this: