evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us featured template meeting notes view template featured template project overview view template featured template menu planning view template ← all templates using templates templates help you make better notes, faster. getting started is easy. here’s how. browse all () collections for work for school for life categories creative writing getting things done® (gtd) home and garden management resources marketing & sales meetings party planning personal well-being project management school travel using templates how to save templates how to create templates help & learning how to use templates learn how to add, manage, and apply templates in evernote. view article help & learning create custom templates learn how to make, edit, and reuse your own templates. view article show more browse all templates better notes are just a click away. save time and effort with easy-to-install note templates to fit every need. they're fully customizable and endlessly reusable. collections for work goal tracking keep an overview of your biggest goals throughout the entire year. view template yearly goals understand your motivation, organize the tasks required, and visualize the reward for your work. view template daily planner stay on top of your day with this easy-to-use calendar. view template weekly planner keep your week in focus with this helpful calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar - starting monday stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient monday-start calendar. view template 2020 annual calendar plan for the best and make this year count with this practical calendar. view template party planning checklist food & drink list: check. invite list: check. where to have it: check. view template get hired keep track of where you’ve applied, when, and what your next steps are. view template hiring tracker hiring excellent employees begins with an organized process. use this template to define your needs and track candidates so you can find the best fit. view template act locally focus on the cause you care about, how to start organizing, and how to bring others on your team. view template strategic planning identify the gap between where your business is and where you want it to be—and how to close it. view template event budget list your budgetary needs and guidelines so you don’t spend too much—or too little. view template event feedback document the final budget, attendees, what worked and what didn’t work, to make your next bash even better. view template brainstorming session a place to, well, brainstorm all your party ideas and themes. view template character profile flesh out your characters, major and minor, to make them memorable. view template story dashboard create a roadmap that cohesively links the first page to the last. you can even attach files so you can work on it anywhere. view template novel plotting: 3-act structure layout plot ideas and arrange them so your story works from beginning to end. view template story premise worksheet brainstorm and expand story ideas, plots, and writing timeline so everything matches and makes sense as you write. view template frequent flyer numbers free up some space in your wallet, and keep all your airline mileage account information in one place. view template travel calendar from travel dates to flight numbers, meeting locations and times, this template gives you an overview of your entire travel schedule in one convenient place. view template project budget breakdown your projected costs vs. actual costs, so you don’t spend more than what’s been allotted. view template project overview document responsibilities of every project team member, important milestones, and final deadline, so everyone knows what’s going on. view template sales pre-call planner be fully prepared for your sales meeting with key notes and questions you need to ask—or think you may be asked—so you’ll already have the answers. view template call debrief tool make each call count by capturing important details on how best to follow up and go forward—before you forget. view template meeting agenda run meetings with more clarity, focus, and efficiency. view template meeting notes use the evernote audio recording feature to document your meetings, so details aren’t lost in translation. view template blog post worksheet create a review checklist, so your blog posts move along the creative process efficiently. view template marketing plan from concept to project kick-off to final execution, never lose track of what’s in the pipeline. view template social media calendar maintain media posts, blog topics, calendars, and strategies, so you get the most from your social media platforms. view template project goals set and maintain your personal and professional goals. view template interview scorecard make the best choice for your next new hire. view template areas of responsibility track your ongoing and everyday tasks. view template individual project a central hub for everything your individual project will need. view template weekly review maintain focus, so you can keep moving onward and upward. view template for school daily planner stay on top of your day with this easy-to-use calendar. view template weekly planner keep your week in focus with this helpful calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar - starting monday stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient monday-start calendar. view template 2020 annual calendar plan for the best and make this year count with this practical calendar. view template character profile flesh out your characters, major and minor, to make them memorable. view template story dashboard create a roadmap that cohesively links the first page to the last. you can even attach files so you can work on it anywhere. view template novel plotting: 3-act structure layout plot ideas and arrange them so your story works from beginning to end. view template story premise worksheet brainstorm and expand story ideas, plots, and writing timeline so everything matches and makes sense as you write. view template class notes better notes make for better grades. view template cornell notes a proven format for taking effective notes. you can also use the evernote recording feature to capture lectures and conversations, so you don’t miss anything. view template dorm checklist check off all the new stuff you’ll need to make your dorm room feel like home. view template eisenhower matrix prioritize your tasks based on their urgency and importance, so it all gets done—and in the right order. view template project overview - school perfect for tracking your homework, class projects, and term papers, so you always know what needs to be completed. view template for life build a plan identify your challenge and detail how you will accomplish your goal. view template habit tracker track your progress in building a new habit, or breaking an old one. view template support network stay in touch with the people who can help you be accountable for your progress—or those you’ll lean on during a setback view template reflect and correct list what’s working well and what needs more work each week as you work on your goal. view template gift tracker record gift ideas and where you can buy them when the time is right. view template save money track your income and expenses and how they combine to reach your financial goals. view template lose weight stay aware of your daily progress toward your goal weight. view template get fit track your diet and exercise activity to get the results you want. view template goal tracking keep an overview of your biggest goals throughout the entire year. view template yearly goals understand your motivation, organize the tasks required, and visualize the reward for your work. view template daily planner stay on top of your day with this easy-to-use calendar. view template weekly planner keep your week in focus with this helpful calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar - starting monday stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient monday-start calendar. view template 2020 annual calendar plan for the best and make this year count with this practical calendar. view template party planning checklist food & drink list: check. invite list: check. where to have it: check. view template get hired keep track of where you’ve applied, when, and what your next steps are. view template travel inspiration oh, the places you’ll go (or want to go). update and maintain your vacation bucket list, whenever the inspiration hits you. view template menu planning easily manage your shopping lists, recipe ideas, dietary and food allergy concerns—even your pets’ needs. view template frequent flyer numbers free up some space in your wallet, and keep all your airline mileage account information in one place. view template travel calendar from travel dates to flight numbers, meeting locations and times, this template gives you an overview of your entire travel schedule in one convenient place. view template daily recharge an easy-to-use template to capture all your inspirations, thoughts, and areas you think you can improve upon, for a better, happier you. view template areas of responsibility track your ongoing and everyday tasks. view template individual project a central hub for everything your individual project will need. view template weekly review maintain focus, so you can keep moving onward and upward. view template daily focus and energy tracker monitor your focus and energy patterns so you can make needed corrections, and have a better, more productive day. view template gratitude journal keep a list of what makes you feel grateful, and the people you’re thankful for having in your life. view template personal stress log track your stress levels and recognize any signs of anxiety and burnout, so you can focus on feeling better. view template categories creative writing character profile flesh out your characters, major and minor, to make them memorable. view template story dashboard create a roadmap that cohesively links the first page to the last. you can even attach files so you can work on it anywhere. view template novel plotting: 3-act structure layout plot ideas and arrange them so your story works from beginning to end. view template story premise worksheet brainstorm and expand story ideas, plots, and writing timeline so everything matches and makes sense as you write. view template getting things done® (gtd) areas of responsibility track your ongoing and everyday tasks. view template individual project a central hub for everything your individual project will need. view template weekly review maintain focus, so you can keep moving onward and upward. view template home and garden gift tracker record gift ideas and where you can buy them when the time is right. view template menu planning easily manage your shopping lists, recipe ideas, dietary and food allergy concerns—even your pets’ needs. view template daily recharge an easy-to-use template to capture all your inspirations, thoughts, and areas you think you can improve upon, for a better, happier you. view template management resources project goals set and maintain your personal and professional goals. view template interview scorecard make the best choice for your next new hire. view template marketing & sales sales pre-call planner be fully prepared for your sales meeting with key notes and questions you need to ask—or think you may be asked—so you’ll already have the answers. view template call debrief tool make each call count by capturing important details on how best to follow up and go forward—before you forget. view template blog post worksheet create a review checklist, so your blog posts move along the creative process efficiently. view template marketing plan from concept to project kick-off to final execution, never lose track of what’s in the pipeline. view template social media calendar maintain media posts, blog topics, calendars, and strategies, so you get the most from your social media platforms. view template meetings sales pre-call planner be fully prepared for your sales meeting with key notes and questions you need to ask—or think you may be asked—so you’ll already have the answers. view template call debrief tool make each call count by capturing important details on how best to follow up and go forward—before you forget. view template meeting agenda run meetings with more clarity, focus, and efficiency. view template meeting notes use the evernote audio recording feature to document your meetings, so details aren’t lost in translation. view template party planning party planning checklist food & drink list: check. invite list: check. where to have it: check. view template event budget list your budgetary needs and guidelines so you don’t spend too much—or too little. view template event feedback document the final budget, attendees, what worked and what didn’t work, to make your next bash even better. view template brainstorming session a place to, well, brainstorm all your party ideas and themes. view template personal well-being build a plan identify your challenge and detail how you will accomplish your goal. view template habit tracker track your progress in building a new habit, or breaking an old one. view template support network stay in touch with the people who can help you be accountable for your progress—or those you’ll lean on during a setback view template reflect and correct list what’s working well and what needs more work each week as you work on your goal. view template save money track your income and expenses and how they combine to reach your financial goals. view template lose weight stay aware of your daily progress toward your goal weight. view template get fit track your diet and exercise activity to get the results you want. view template goal tracking keep an overview of your biggest goals throughout the entire year. view template yearly goals understand your motivation, organize the tasks required, and visualize the reward for your work. view template get hired keep track of where you’ve applied, when, and what your next steps are. view template act locally focus on the cause you care about, how to start organizing, and how to bring others on your team. view template daily recharge an easy-to-use template to capture all your inspirations, thoughts, and areas you think you can improve upon, for a better, happier you. view template daily focus and energy tracker monitor your focus and energy patterns so you can make needed corrections, and have a better, more productive day. view template gratitude journal keep a list of what makes you feel grateful, and the people you’re thankful for having in your life. view template personal stress log track your stress levels and recognize any signs of anxiety and burnout, so you can focus on feeling better. view template project management daily planner stay on top of your day with this easy-to-use calendar. view template weekly planner keep your week in focus with this helpful calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient calendar. view template 2020 monthly calendar - starting monday stay organized and productive all month long with this convenient monday-start calendar. view template 2020 annual calendar plan for the best and make this year count with this practical calendar. view template hiring tracker hiring excellent employees begins with an organized process. use this template to define your needs and track candidates so you can find the best fit. view template strategic planning identify the gap between where your business is and where you want it to be—and how to close it. view template project budget breakdown your projected costs vs. actual costs, so you don’t spend more than what’s been allotted. view template project overview document responsibilities of every project team member, important milestones, and final deadline, so everyone knows what’s going on. view template school class notes better notes make for better grades. view template cornell notes a proven format for taking effective notes. you can also use the evernote recording feature to capture lectures and conversations, so you don’t miss anything. view template dorm checklist check off all the new stuff you’ll need to make your dorm room feel like home. view template eisenhower matrix prioritize your tasks based on their urgency and importance, so it all gets done—and in the right order. view template project overview - school perfect for tracking your homework, class projects, and term papers, so you always know what needs to be completed. view template travel travel inspiration oh, the places you’ll go (or want to go). update and maintain your vacation bucket list, whenever the inspiration hits you. view template frequent flyer numbers free up some space in your wallet, and keep all your airline mileage account information in one place. view template travel calendar from travel dates to flight numbers, meeting locations and times, this template gives you an overview of your entire travel schedule in one convenient place. view template new to templates? learn how to get started how to save templates how to create templates help & learning how to use templates learn how to add, manage, and apply templates in evernote. view article help & learning create custom templates learn how to make, edit, and reuse your own templates. view article product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy