evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us evernote discount for eligible students* make school work with evernote get 50% off a full year of evernote premium. capture what you need to learn and take it anywhere. don't have an account? sign up for free already have an account? sign in by clicking “create account,” i agree to evernote's terms of service and privacy policy. *offer available for new or basic evernote users who can verify eligibility with a valid .edu or .ac email address on the following page (university-issued emails from canada, germany, and switzerland may also qualify, click here for more details). valid for one year of evernote premium. organize coursework track due dates, type notes, or scan your handwriting and keep these with related handouts, web pages, and whiteboard pictures—all in one place. learn anywhere always forget where you save things? search tags and text, even in photos of your handwritten class notes, and find all your study material synced across your devices. study with drive save google drive files in evernote to keep course content and your ideas in one spot. you can also connect to ifttt and outlook to streamline tasks and avoid constant app switching. engadget recommended as seen on cnbc’s “on the money” “for most students, we’re recommending evernote just because it does work on such a wide range of platforms—windows machines, macs, android phones, iphones. and there are a lot of features built in.” — dana wollman, engadget editor-in-chief, “new back to school gadgets” for fall 2019 accomplish anything discover why millions of students rely on evernote to reduce stress and find success at leading universities like princeton, claremont colleges, stanford, and uc berkeley. all the features, half the price mark it up have pdf handouts? annotate with shapes and comments to highlight details and make notes. work wherever use your class notes on your phone, tablet, laptop, and the web—even if you’re offline. find things easily search text in office docs, pdfs, photos, and handwriting to go right to what’ll be on the test. simplify collaboration present notes with a click or share them with classmates, even if they don’t use evernote. save important email forward emails from professors and classmates into evernote, so they’re near related notes. explore the space 10 gb of new upload space each month means evernote grows with your knowledge. picture student life, organized get 50% off a full year of evernote premium. don't have an account? sign up for free already have an account? sign in by clicking “create account,” i agree to evernote's terms of service and privacy policy. *offer available for new or basic evernote users who can verify eligibility with a valid .edu or .ac email address on the following page (university-issued emails from canada, germany, and switzerland may also qualify, click here for more details). valid for one year of evernote premium. product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy