skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: nothing to do with travel an open letter to whoever left poo on my toilet seat. posted on jan 10, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, rants and raves, uncategorized dear friends, as you know, rand and i are social creatures. we thrive on seeing the people we love, on following the winding paths of your lives, on quietly building a history of private jokes and shared experiences together. we aren’t simply growing old with each other, we are growing old with all of you,… keep reading every relationship in love, actually, listed in order of how dysfunctional they are. posted on dec 21, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, rants and raves it’s december, which means that you’ve probably read all of the daring thinkpieces about how love, actually is the greatest holiday movie, ever, despite its many, many flaws, or the other, more daring thinkpieces about how love, actually, is the worst holiday movie, ever, because of the aforementioned flaws. and i shouldn’t be adding gasoline… keep reading when online harassment shows up on your doorstep posted on nov 28, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay the letter arrived at my house at the end of october in a plain white envelope with no return address. my name – or some approximation of it (“depruiter” it reads, because, in the words of my beloved, “the person who addressed it is an idiot”) has been printed out on a label and affixed… keep reading tragedy, antisemitism, and being not quite jewish posted on oct 30, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay i have yet to call my in-laws (my husband’s grandparents) in the wake of a shooting at a synagogue in pittsburgh. a few days have passed. for the collective american consciousness, the lifespan of a mass shooting is short. the newscycle has already moved on, as has everyone’s social media posts. (even this post, written two… keep reading the women who write letters posted on sep 18, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay (above: my student id in 1999. let’s just keep our comments to ourselves.) there’s this pattern i keep seeing. it goes like this: woman accuses man of sexual assault. man denies accusations. man’s pr team then releases numerous letters from women saying that he’s not a sexual harasser because, you know, he didn’t harass… keep reading if twitter responded to abuse reports honestly posted on mar 22, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel i spend too much time on twitter. and, frankly, it’s awful. every day is like wading through a sea of poop to try and find a cupcake, and even when you find that, it’s like, “well, i can’t possibly eat this cupcake. it’s covered in poop.” as a writer, twitter becomes a sort of necessary… keep reading pillow fight. posted on mar 19, 2018 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, uncategorized it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a married man in possession of a house will one day find himself in a shouting match with his spouse about something trivial like throw pillows. all of this will likely happen at ikea. if that man has refused to go to ikea, because he has justly concluded… keep reading i watched all the fast and the furious movies in a week. posted on feb 23, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, random musings over the last week, i have watched the entire fast and the furious series. the impetus for embarking on such an artistically dubious project was a promise that i made years ago to my husband, probably while drunk. i told him that the next time i was struck with the sort of mind-numbing illness that… keep reading what kill bill taught me about surviving abuse posted on feb 3, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings when i was 23, a few weeks after kill bill premiered, i dressed up as uma thurman’s character from the film for halloween. in it, she wears a yellow jumpsuit that is itself an homage to bruce lee’s outfit in game of death. i searched for weeks for something similar, and finally found a pair of… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 6 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.