home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library degustabox food and drink product reviews prevnext november 2017 degustabox review leyla preston wed 24th jan 2018 7shares share tweet pin another great month of delicious edible goodies from degustabox, which features the following brands this month: kallo organic stock pots propercorn perfectly sweet popcorn weetabix additions apple & raisin dalston’s fizzy apple taylors of harrogate ground coffees alo aloe vera drink planters fruity chocolate crunch cadbury picnic bites filippo berio crostini filippo berio classic pesto rio mare tuna in olive oil the english provender co. caramelised red onion chutney the jelly bean factory super sours ryvita multigrain rye cakes here is the link to the full background of the degustabox and the service they offer: https://motherhooddiaries.com/degustabox-review-plus-competitiongiveaway-win-aprils-degustabox/ but, for a quick recap, degustabox is an online retail service that offers a monthly package full of nutritional goods for a monthly fee of £12.99. but lucky customers like yourself will receive a £7.00 discount when signing up for your first degustabox by inserting discount code bldeg15 at the checkout. products range from condiments to organic food and drink, packed with lots of information on the product and its manufacturer. you can sign up to receive a monthly degustabox here: http://bit.ly/dbhomepage. you can stay updated via degustabox’s social networks too: facebook – http://bit.ly/dbukfacebook twitter – http://bit.ly/dbuktwitter instagram – @degustabox_uk #degustabox_uk and, that’s not all! customers have the opportunity to receive a hefty 40% discount when signing up with their email address. one other thing. degustabox has recently introduced db discoveries as a way to keep us in the loop with new, smaller brands that we may not have heard of, but are equally as delicious. we’ll keep you posted on these too, by marking a ‘*’ next to the brand’s name. so, let’s get started! table of contents reviewers: what’s in november 2017’s degustabox? merry christmas and a happy new year from the degustabox team! motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products kallo organic stock pots propercorn perfectly sweet popcorn weetabix additions apple & raisin dalston’s fizzy apple taylors of harrogate ground coffees alo aloe vera drink planters fruity chocolate crunch cadbury picnic bites filippo berio crostini filippo berio classic pesto rio mare tuna in olive oil the english provender co. caramelised red onion chutney the jelly bean factory super sours ryvita multigrain rye cakes what did i like most about november 2017’s degustabox? rating: reviewers: tommy (daddy) leyla (mummy) aron (7 years old) aidan (5 years old) what’s in november 2017’s degustabox? merry christmas and a happy new year from the degustabox team! motherhood diaries unboxing this month’s degustabox below: products kallo organic stock pots “introducing the new kallo organic stock pots. made with organic, natural and high-quality ingredients, the flavoursome stock pots enhance the taste of your favourite recipes; soups, stews and traditional pasta dishes. available in three flavours – chicken, beef and vegetable, just stir into your cooking to unleash your flavour pot-ential. *one of three flavours was included in each degustabox. facebook – kallo instagram – kallo kallo“ our opinion – i tried this box in my pre-vegan days and found the flavour to really enhance my stews. now that i’m vegan, i may try the vegetable version, rather than the chicken alternative. 3.5/5 propercorn perfectly sweet popcorn “hand-popped corn sprinkled with unrefined, fairtrade sugar for a perfectly sweet, caramelised flavour. propercorn pride themselves on making sure that their popcorn is delicious and guilt-free. with a dedication to detail, they try to make everything the best it possibly can be. propercorn“ our opinion – we love popcorn in our family and i’m looking for a suitable popcorn maker to keep up with the demands of my boys, so finding snack-sized packets of popcorn, which they can open on-the-go is always helpful. however, i’m trying to steer clear of sugary popcorn, so i wouldn’t necessarily opt for the ‘perfectly sweet’ version. but, popcorn is a healthy snack and i’d always prefer providing my kids with high fibre popcorn than chocolates and sweets. 3.5/5 weetabix additions apple & raisin “our new weetabix additions range is high in taste: 100% whole grain with a burst of delicious fruit. delight your senses with a nutritious breakfast that’s packed full of flavour with delicious apple, juicy raisins and warming cinnamon promising temptingly tasty goodness in every bite. have you had your weetabix? facebook – weetabix – weetabix additions apple & raisin twitter – weetabix – weetabix additions apple & raisin instagram – weetabix – weetabix additions apple & raisin weetabix“ our opinion – my boys love weetabix in the morning, so i’m trying to find a way to stop them from adding honey or maple syrup to their cereal because, right now, they won’t add fruit (but i’m still trying!) so i’m glad to find a sweeter version of weetabix, so that the boys don’t have to add anything at all! 4/5 dalston’s fizzy apple “our fizzy apple sodas are packed with jonagold, idared and bramley apples from farms in kent. we work with the nightingales farm – gibbet oak – to make this soda. the nightingales have been growing apples for… a long time. and they’re pretty good at it! twitter – dalston’s – dalston’s fizzy apple instagram – dalston’s – dalston’s fizzy apple dalston’s“ our opinion – this is a really tasty fizzy apple drink and i found it to be very refreshing. even though i wouldn’t necessarily go out and buy fizzy drinks, i would opt for this type compared to other sodas like coke and fanta because dalston’s fizzy apple tastes authentic and organic. 4/5 taylors of harrogate ground coffees “taylors of harrogate is an independent family tea and coffee company from harrogate. our single origin coffee explores extraordinary flavour from the world’s great growing regions – carefully roasted to bring out the flavour profiles unique to each country. you can find the range at morrisons, sainsbury’s, waitrose, ocado and amazon. *either the rare blossom ethiopia or the cacao superior colombia variety was included in each degustabox. facebook – taylors of harrogate twitter – taylors of harrogate instagram – taylors of harrogate taylors of harrogate“ our opinion – unfortunately we can’t use ground coffee as we have a bean to cup coffee machine (and, for some reason, our ground container doesn’t work – or i don’t know how to use it), but i’ve been told that taylors of harrogate make some pretty decent coffee. i can’t comment or rate as i gifted this bag to my friend who uses a cafetierre to make her coffee. alo aloe vera drink “alō is the only quality-proven brand of aloe vera drinks in the uk drinks market today. we pride in and are confident of our premium quality, taste and experience. as aloe vera drinks are already well known to be complementary to asian dishes, alō offers the best of its kind. – gluten, aloin and fat-free – vegan (except the original, ‘alō exposed’) – alō juice made from the aloe vera straight from the leaf (never constituted from powder, known as whole leaf aloe) – highest aloe vera juice and pulp content among rtd aloe drinks – juice and pulp extracted by hand filleting – no artificial flavours, colours or preservatives – no emulsifiers or thickeners facebook – alo instagram – alo alo“ our opinion – i’ve heard many great things about aloe vera for the insides as well as the outside, but, as a drink, i haven’t really rated it well. i did, however, like this natural drink, including the pulp too. it tasted quite natural and refreshing. 3.5/5 planters fruity chocolate crunch “planters are making this festive season even more exciting with the introduction of two deliciously indulgent nut mixes. planters fruity chocolate crunch is made with crunchy peanuts, juicy cranberries and deliciously creamy milk chocolate buttons, guaranteed to get those taste buds tingling. planters“ our opinion – in my pre-vegan days, i really enjoyed milk chocolate peanuts and this packet was delicious. what made them even better was that the snacks also included cranberries, as well as the milk chocolate buttons, so they were a semi-healthy snack to offer the kids. if only i could get them to enjoy just a handful of nuts! 5/5 cadbury picnic bites “nobbly nibbles of crispy wafer, chewy caramel, crunchy peanut and juicy raisins, all wrapped in cadbury milk chocolate. shake it up with new cadbury picnic bites! cadbury“ our opinion – very naughty snacks, but i do love these picnic bites. be careful though, you can’t stop at just one – you may end up finishing the whole bag in one sitting! 4.5/5 filippo berio crostini “crunchy snacks baked to perfection using the finest extra virgin olive oil from filippo berio- with 30% less fat than fried crisps. available in 5 tasty flavours. *either this product or the filippo berio pesto or the rio mare tuna will have been included in your degustabox. if you received this product, one of two flavours should have been included in your degustabox. filippo berio“ our opinion – i love filippo berrio’s olive oils and use them regularly for dips and sauces. these crouton-like snacks tasted just like the oil and would have made perfect additions to nice mediterranean salads. 4/5 filippo berio classic pesto “authentic classic italian pesto made from the finest traditional techniques, using time honoured ingredients. *either this product or the filippo berio crostini or the rio mare tuna will have been included in your degustabox. filippo berio“ our opinion – albeit slightly too salty, i added this pesto to a stew and it came out really nicely. this classic pesto also complements a roasted vegetable tray recipe or a nice pasta dish – it’s quite versatile 4/5 rio mare tuna in olive oil “made with the best tuna and selected olive oil, its unique taste and appealing colour make it an unmistakeable product, creating the excellence of real italian taste. *either this product or the filippo berio crostini or the filippo berio pesto will have been included in your degustabox. filippo berio“ our opinion – i no longer eat tuna, but my youngest absolutely loves it! my son had a birthday party so i used the tuna in a philadelphia cream cheese and sweetcorn sauce as party sandwiches and the kids loved it! 4.5/5 the english provender co. caramelised red onion chutney “the english provender co.’s caramelised red onion chutney is the perfect accompaniment to your festive cheese board and ideal to add flavour to sandwiches. the brand’s signature chutney uses sweet red onions to create a delightfully sticky savoury chutney which will brighten up any dish. facebook – the english provender co. – caramelised red onion chutney twitter – the english provender co. – caramelised red onion chutney instagram – the english provender co. – caramelised red onion chutney the english provender co“ our opinion – i love chutney, i am a big chutney fiend, and this caramelised red onion chutney was absolutely delightful. i normally enjoy my favourite sauce in a krisproll/feta cheese/tomato and chutney concoction. however, as i’m now vegan, i found caramelised red onion chutney and coconut milk to taste even better! well worth a try 5/5 the jelly bean factory super sours “the jelly bean factory® super sours jelly beans come in 9 fantastic flavours to tickle your taste buds! each super sour gourmet jelly bean is made using natural flavours and colours. they’re also gelatine free, gluten free and nut free as well as being suitable for coeliacs and vegetarians! facebook – the jelly bean factory twitter – the jelly bean factory instagram – the jelly bean factory the jelly bean factory“ our opinion – we’ve had jellybeans in a previous degustabox, but not from the jelly bean factory. we tried the jelly belly sours, which i ended up eating the whole pack by myself and this time, i had a little more restraint, even though these were just as tasty. not great for the teeth and subsequent sugar crash! 4.5/5 ryvita multigrain rye cakes “made with popped wholegrain rye, ryvita multigrain rye cakes are naturally high in fibre and low in fat, making them a delicious and wholesome snack. get creative with your favourite toppings or enjoy them on their own. the choice is yours! facebook – ryvita – ryvita multigrain rye cakes instagram – ryvita – ryvita multigrain rye cakes ryvita“ our opinion – i really liked these wholegrain rye cakes, not just because they’re naturally healthy, but because the boys and i really loved the taste and versatility of these rye cakes. they have a nice crunchy texture, as well as a natural, albeit slightly salty flavour, which means they go with practically anything, even nutella! our favourite of the bunch – because they’re healthy! 5/5 what did i like most about november 2017’s degustabox? the ryvita multigrain rye cakes. please, more healthy snack like products like these that the boys will actually eat! rating: 4 out of 5 – overall a great box with lots of variedly healthy additions this time. again, the beauty of degustabox is its ability to pick out some great quality products from relatively unknown brands, which broaden the mind a little bit and encourage you to be riskier with your choices. enjoyed reviewing this box, thanks, degustabox! never miss a new post! don’t forget to tailor your preferences, so you just get the posts you want to read! follow motherhood diaries on facebook (facebook recipes page), twitter, pinterest, instagram, google+ and linkedin if you’d like to share your pregnancy or parenting story, then please do share your story here. don’t forget to read our ad policy leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:alocadburydegustaboxdrink dalstonsfilippo beriofood and drinkfood boxkalloplantersrio mareryvitataylors of harrogatethe english provender cothe jelly bean factoryweetabix related posts june 2019 summer and bbq degusta box rev... june 2014 – degustabox product rev... july 2014 – degustabox product rev... degustabox review plus competition/givea... recipe – snowcapped chocolate fond... oxo good grips 3-piece berries bowl ... january 2018 degustabox review chillfactor squeeze cup slushy maker ... august 2014 – degustabox product r... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... april 2014 – degustabox product re... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... september 2015 – degustabox produc... december 2017 degustabox review christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... graze sharing boxes – a review february 2015 – degustabox product... may 2018 degustabox ‘world cup’ product ... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... march 2019 degusta box review august 2017 degustabox review february 2020 degusta box review – easte... january 2016 – degustabox product ... december 2018 degustabox review chocolate lemon mousse with a blackberry... how to make the most of the blackberry s... september 2014 – degustabox produc... october 2017 degustabox review may 2014 – degustabox product revi... bengal chicken curry about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 7shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok