australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 08:37 edt npr station stops airing trump coronavirus briefings for 'false information' seattle's kuow said fact-checking the president's falsehoods and exaggeration became a challenge during the live broadcast. by ron dicker, huffpost us a national public radio station has tuned out president donald trump. kuow in seattle announced this week it would no longer air the president’s coronavirus briefings live because its journalists could not correct trump’s “false information” and “exaggeration” fast enough. “it is imperative that they are fact-checked, which is a challenge during a live broadcast,” the station said in a statement, denying that the decision was “politically based.” the npr affiliate explained that allowing trump to use its platform failed to serve listeners and may have risked the community’s health and safety. reporters would continue to cover the briefings and report on them “in the format most useful to our listeners,” the station said. “after airing the white house briefings live for two weeks, a pattern of false information and exaggeration increasingly had many at kuow questioning whether these briefings were in the best service of our mission ― to create and serve a more informed public,” the station said. “of even greater concern was the potential impact of false information on the health and safety of our community.” associated press donald trump speaks at one of the white house coronavirus briefings that a seattle npr station will no longer air. kuow cited three recent examples of falsehoods from the president: trump declaring that no one knew a pandemic of this “proportion” was coming despite warnings from the intelligence community; trump claiming there were few empty shelves in stores despite local reports of many being out of supplies; and trump’s announcement that the drug chloroquine would be “available almost immediately” to treat the virus. “the president claimed, incorrectly, that the fda had fast-tracked approval of its use to treat covid-19,” the station noted. “there isn’t current medical evidence of the efficacy of that drug in treating covid-19.” kuow said it will review its decision daily and “will continue to treat all opportunities for live preemption on a case-by-case basis weighing for importance, news value and immediacy of need-to-know.” msnbc and cnn cut away from trump’s news conference earlier this week, angering the white house, the washington post noted. major broadcast networks also have cut away to their nightly news shows. related... joe biden says trump 'hasn't done what's rational to do' jimmy kimmel gives savage new nickname to trump in coronavirus era courteney cox shows her fridge and pantry in quarantine — and it's so monica suggest a correction ron dicker general assignment reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus seattle npr kuow trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.