home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog shredded pork eggs benedict recipe – keto and gluten free september 16, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment if you're looking for a new keto or gluten free recipe, you've gotta try this awesome shredded pork eggs benedict recipe. this recipe is so simple. you only need three ingredients and less than an hour from fridge to table! ingredients hormel pork tenderloin (18.4 oz)one half avocadoone egg instructions using your instant pot, throw a hormel pork tenderloin … [read more...] charleston heat & a larabar discovery – gluten free snack june 26, 2015 by erin weiss leave a comment consideration was provided by larabar . good morning beautiful people! first off, i just want to say it’s been soooo hot in charleston lately. every day has had a heat advisory with almost 100-degree temperatures. we are at 10 consecutive days of 95 degrees or more. wowzas! this is my first summer living in charleston, so i’m trying to adjust to this heat but i can’t … [read more...] the soup diet plus 10 healthy soup recipes to try! june 9, 2015 by erin weiss 2 comments as i was on the treadmill today, i was watching an episode of the doctors. i'm always a bit hesitant of shows that promote a lot of different products and diets, but today something caught my eye and i wanted to research it a bit more and do a post about it. today's topic was all about the soup diet. what is a soup diet? it's as simple as it sounds. it's a diet where you … [read more...] i’m fed up tonight! – my thoughts on the fed up documentary april 12, 2015 by erin weiss 3 comments tonight i decided to take it easy and make it a netflix night. it seems like a lot of my nights lately have consisted of netflix binging but hey, don't judge! tonight i settled on the fed up documentary. this fed up documentary caught my eye because the caption on the main image said "the movie that will change the way people think about eating" and "congress says … [read more...] how to make quinoa & 6 mouth watering recipes! january 12, 2015 by erin weiss 1 comment quinoa is a food that is relatively new to my diet. about two years ago, when i was training for my bikini competition, i discovered this new tasty carbohydrate that helped change things up in my bland diet. one of the things that drew me to quinoa is that it's also packed with protein. there aren't many other whole grains that you'll find that are also a good protein … [read more...] what is celiac disease? november 10, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment lately i have heard a lot about celiac disease but to be honest, until about a year ago, i didn't even know what it was or if i should be worried about it. i remember googling "what is celiac disease?" and since then have gotten quite a few messages asking if i could do a post on it to raise awareness. well yes, of course, i'd love to! what is celiac disease? celiac … [read more...] setting macros to grams in myfitnesspal august 11, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment myfitnesspal.com is the most popular website that i know of to track nutrition. it's so simple. you download the app (or go on the website), scan your food you eat or simply pick from over 4 million foods in their database. i absolutely love using myfitnesspal but found that if you're following an iifym type of diet, it's hard to change your macros to match your … [read more...] why do i crave sweets after eating? july 9, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment i hate that this happens. i eat a big meal and am completely full but still crave something sweet to top it all off. it's completely unnecessary since i'm already full but the stupid little sugar demons in my brain tell me i need something sweet. why!? lately, it seems like every time i eat a meal, i crave sweets after eating. this sometimes ends up completely f'ing up … [read more...] cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe march 12, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past week, i've been making a new recipe that i can easily say i'm obsessed with at the moment. i've eaten it every night. every.damn.night. introducing....my cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe. i've been counting my macros lately and i have a tendency to eat a ton of carbs during the day. when it comes time for dinner, i realize i need to catch up with my … [read more...] michelle obama’s nutrition label changes february 27, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment michelle obama is my favorite part of the white house. i said it. it's true. i love our first lady's initiatives to make a positive impact on increasing exercise and learning more about nutrition. not only is she the most influential woman in the usa, she's also rockin' a rock hard bod! she has stated that she wakes up between 4:30am and 5:30am to get her workout in before … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in