about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ nutrition disclaimer edited 10/23/2018 1. many of the recipes you find here are considered by me to be gluten free, dairy free, nut free, egg free and/or soy free, among other qualifiers. however, i do not have control over the ingredients you use to make these recipes nor the environment in which you are making them. at times i list specific brands of ingredients that i used, but companies do change their products at times, and you should always read labels. if you are following a gluten-free diet, for example, check on the gluten-free status of a product or ingredient yourself. when an ingredient is mentioned that may contain gluten, such as oats or tamari, i am always referring to a gluten-free version of that ingredient whether noted or not. i am not responsible or liable for any reactions that might result from following the posted recipes. your health is your responsibility. i am not responsible for the outcome of any recipe you try from this blog/website, cookieandkate.com. you may not always have the same results i do due to variations in ingredients, humidity, altitude, cooking temperatures, typos, errors, omissions, or individual cooking abilities. please always use your best judgment when cooking with raw ingredients such as eggs. any information you find here is believed to be accurate at the time of posting, however, that could change with product reformulations and new medical information. i am not a doctor, nutritionist, or dietician. i have no medical training at all. the information i share is based on my own experiences and information i learn from my own research and listening to speakers. the statements contained in this website or blog have not been evaluated by the food and drug administration. any products mentioned in this blog/website are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease. please consult a doctor before altering your diet in any way, including going gluten free, or taking any supplements. 2. this website in no way provides any warranty, express or implied, towards the content of recipes in this website. it is the reader’s responsibility to determine the value and quality of any recipe or instructions provided for food preparation and to determine the nutritional value, if any, and safety of the preparation instructions. the recipes presented are intended for entertainment and/or informational purposes and for use by persons having appropriate technical skill, at their own discretion and risk. in other words: while i prepare the recipes at my own risk, i assume that should you desire to follow the recipes in this blog, you are doing so “at your own risk.” i am not liable, not responsible and do not assume obligation for: adverse reactions to food consumed such as food poisoning and any kind of food-borne disease misinterpreted recipe domestic accidents, including but not limited to fires in your kitchen, a cut finger or flour-covered kitchen countertop. i make no warranties for the outcome of your food experiments. remember, cooking is very subjective. you and i might use different brands of the same ingredients. our ovens might have different temperatures. our cooking abilities might be at different levels. before trying a new recipe, read and re-read the recipe. make sure you’re not allergic to any of the ingredients. use the right amounts and tools. what you decide to do with the recipes here is your responsibility. 3. this website provides approximate nutrition information for convenience and as a courtesy only. nutrition data is gathered primarily from the usda food composition database via nutrifox, whenever available, or otherwise other online calculators. nutrition information can vary for a recipe based on factors such as precision of measurements, brands, ingredient freshness, or the source of nutrition data. we strive to keep the information as accurate as possible, but make no warranties regarding its accuracy. we encourage readers to make their own calculations based on the actual ingredients used in your recipe, using your preferred nutrition calculator. the author(s) of the website are not dietitians or nutritionists. any recommendations are made based on our research or personal experience, but shall not be construed as medical or nutritional advice. you are fully responsible for any actions you take and any consequences that occur as a result of anything you read on this website. the website or content herein is not intended to cure, prevent, diagnose or treat any disease. please consult your health care provider regarding any health related decisions. this website shall not be liable for adverse reactions or any other outcome resulting from the use of recipes or recommendations on the website or actions you take as a result. any action you take is strictly at your own risk. hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}