engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks instacart workers will strike over lack of covid-19 protections latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 19m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the decision is a big win for gig economy workers. igor bonifacic, @igorbonifacic 19m ago comments share tweet share sponsored links postmates gig economy workers in new york won a significant battle this week after the state's court of appeals ruled in their favor against postmates. supporting a previous state decision, the court said postmates couriers should be considered employees for the purposes of unemployment insurance. moving forward, the company must support its contractors by paying into new york's unemployment insurance fund on their behalf. in the original decision, new york's unemployment insurance appeal board said luis vega, a former courier with postmates, was entitled to employment insurance benefits after the company fired him. in its subsequent decision, the court of appeals argued postmates effectively "dominates the significant aspects" of a courier's day-to-day by controlling where, when and to whom they can deliver food to while they're on the job. the court's judges felt that created an employer-employee relationship that exceeded the "incidental control" postmates said it had over its couriers. "the courts have solidified what we all have known for a while -- delivery drivers are employees and are entitled to the same unemployment benefits other employees can obtain," new york attorney general letitia james said. "as the nation battles the spread of the coronavirus and more and more employees are laid off, postmates drivers should know they have the same safety net millions of others in new york have today." we've also reached out to postmates for comment, and we'll update this article when we hear back. while working for companies like postmates and instacart has always been something of a precarious proposition, the coronavirus pandemic has laid bare just how little job security gig economy workers enjoy. in a recent investor call, uber ceo dara khosrowshahi told investors the company's ride volume has decreased by as much as 60 to 70 percent in cities hardest hit by the virus. in uber's case, a lot of its drivers have been forced to take on delivery jobs to make up for the loss in income, putting themselves at further risk of getting sick with covid-19. in this article: business, coronavirus, covid-19, gear, gig economy, medicine, new york, politics, postmates, services, unemployment all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr