0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 no equivalentmichael dirosamarch 21, 2019thimphu, bhutan nyongdrol no equivalentmichael dirosamarch 21, 2019thimphu, bhutan nyongdrol bhutanese, noun liberation by tasting by michael dirosa in the mountain forests above bhutan’s capital city, thimphu, i sat with my classmates as we learned a series of buddhist liberations. thongdrol, liberation by seeing. thoedrol, liberation by hearing. regdrol, liberation by touch. nyongdrol—liberation by tasting, i thought would make the perfect name for a restaurant. my classmates and i playfully traded menu ideas, though it was clear that this concept had deeper subtlety. our day to day experience of food ranged from repetitive to transcendent. hopping from fragrant, sonorous temples where monks offered puffed rice, to sidewalk markets with mountains of red and green chilies, to homes where potatoes boiled lazily in loose cheese sauce. the food of the outside world was sharply distinct from that of the college mess hall, where foreign and local students alike groaned over the monotonous and oily food. but was liberation somewhere in these meals? for me, this idea is still evolving. a mountain meal in the haa valley . one day, my classmates and i were tasked with decorating a soccer field with pine needles and branches in anticipation of the arrival of the king of bhutan at the graduation ceremony of royal thimphu college. despite our attendance there, we were not allowed to witness the ceremony without being granted an audience. an acoustic guitarist performed ‘take me home, country roads,’ as we listened to the ceremony with the cafeteria cooks from high on a hill behind the mess hall. we spied through bathroom windows trying to catch a glimpse of the king. to my surprise, days before our departure from the bhutanese college in which we studied during the fall, we were granted such an audience, in the form of a feast. our bhutanese roommates helped us dress in our most dapper traditional gho and kira. by this time i could make crisp pleats every other attempt. we took our seats at a table on the lawn of a modest cottage that belonged to the king and queen. a sprawling canvas tent shielded us from the strong himalayan sun. it was november and the engorged glacial rivers slowed as they entered the valleys to mark the end of the monsoon season. the elevation of the mountains cooled the warm sun with a breeze reminiscent of an east coast fall without the autumn foliage. roasted roadside maize. the king and queen entered the tent and gracefully circled our table as they took turns greeting and conversing with each attendee. the king, dressed in a black down vest over his gho, looked stately and handsome. the queen too looked elegant dressed in her kira. unlike the immaculate portraits pasted on every plastic-stool laden canteen and living room wall in the kingdom, when the queen sat next to me, i noticed acne under her concealer. there was something comforting about that. the king joshed with our resident professor over his time at wheaton college. our professor teased him of his habit of skipping class. the king and queen’s servants dished out piles of pancakes, waffles and french toast, an appreciated nod to our homesickness. a day before, we were face-timing our families as they cozied up to candlelit thanksgiving dinners without us. we chomped through grapefruit-sized beef momos that were freshly steamed and spilling with fat. to cleanse the palate, we spooned soupy bowls of fermented grains called changkoi. a shallow goblet of warm butter tea served as a digestif. creamy and savory, with a sweetness redolent of french vanilla ice cream—such a dreamlike experience had me wondering if this was finally the manifestation of nyongdrol. chilies, or ema, in bhutanese, drying in sunlight. instinct tells me that liberation by tasting is not a singular event. growing up in an italian-restaurant family, seven hour meals were the sunday norm. food was never a brief affair. it was the reason to carve out half a day to hear your grandfather tell stories about his shoeless childhood. there is something special, liberating even, about the experience of a long meal. the idea is as salient to me as the tastes of ricotta and braciole lovingly pumped down my childhood’s throat. yet, i hadn’t processed it until i left the king’s palace, and bhutan. long after the king’s feast, my classmates and i found a bhutanese restaurant in new york where we started going for lunch. around us, tibetan, bhutanese and nepali families would sit for meals, alongside the odd white kid. bhutan is a small kingdom, and it wasn’t surprising that lekay, the former monk who founded the restaurant, recognized us from a youtube video of our ridiculous talent show dance at royal thimphu college. the video played in full volume on the tv as plates of chewy red rice and buckwheat noodles emerged from the kitchen. let us write to you! every week, get a letter from us in your inbox. email address write me thank you! as lunch would turn into dinner, this meal has become our all-day affair. we spend time in a space where we feel connected through experience. the trays of potatoes and chillies drowned in mild cheese sauce help us slip into story. as with so many family dinners, holidays, and gatherings with friends, at such meals i forget the flow of time. is it the specific flavor and aroma of a meal that conjures nyongdrol? or is it the length of the table and the time spent where we come together? somewhere between a royal feast and humble pie. between salts and fats dovetailing with sweet company. these meals might be seldom, and perhaps, a tad decadent. but i’ve learned to leave room in my stomach for a little liberation. about the author michael dirosa is a new york-based visual artist and educator. after graduating from bard college, he spent a year in rural china on a princeton in asia teaching fellowship. in his painting practice michael works with bold colors and compositions dealing with cultural identity, personal stories, climate and migration. as an artist-in-residence at lijiang studio in sunny yunnan province he attended a wedding, a funeral, two pig slaughters, and his art opening. all photos by michael dirosa. articles jeanna lucci canapari mongrassano, italy caccata jeanna lucci canapari mongrassano, italy caccata comes from the verb caccare, “to shit,” and when you are caccata, you are full of it. shit, that is. jeanna lucci canapari mongrassano, italy jed gottlieb madrid, spain la movida jed gottlieb madrid, spain excess killed many of la movida’s heroes but some just quit playing music. jed gottlieb madrid, spain michael dirosa thimphu, bhutan nyongdrol michael dirosa thimphu, bhutan creamy and savory, with a sweetness redolent of french vanilla ice cream—such a dreamlike experience had me wondering if this was finally the manifestation of nyongdrol. michael dirosa thimphu, bhutan julia thomas kathmandu, nepal eklai julia thomas kathmandu, nepal mornings were hot, dust rising under persistent traffic, easily tempered by warm afternoon rains. the small ganesh statue carved into the wall along a hill near my house harbored an audience of candles with damp wicks. julia thomas kathmandu, nepal kumari tilakawardane wales / sri lanka hiraeth kumari tilakawardane wales / sri lanka being biracial comes with a unique set of quandaries, and for me hiraeth has always been chief among them. kumari tilakawardane wales / sri lanka emma goldberg beijing, china ma shang emma goldberg beijing, china a chinese century, my brother tells me, is just a blip. dynasties rise and fall, wars are waged and emperors killed. hours or decades pass while the men sit out by the canals. emma goldberg beijing, china danial adkison nkinnen, gabon madzona danial adkison nkinnen, gabon the expectation that you had a right to be heard, no matter what, seemed audacious, even arrogant. the line between confidence and arrogance, of course, depends on the perspective of the listener, and that staccato spirit of madzona plucked my insecurities. danial adkison nkinnen, gabon jon arlan osaka, japan natsukashii jon arlan osaka, japan where nostalgia expresses a longing to return to time or place when things were good, it is tinged with melancholy, even sadness and anxiety. natsukashii, on the other hand, is absent this gloominess and suggests something slightly different: a happiness to be remembering a happy memory. jon arlan osaka, japan olaya barr galicia, spain chuches olaya barr galicia, spain occasionally, i would exaggerate stories of california to entertain my summer friends, but i felt uncomfortable with the responsibility of relaying all the nuances of american culture and uncomfortable that they didn’t see me as a fellow spaniard. olaya barr galicia, spain amber meadow adams ontario, canada pajogan amber meadow adams ontario, canada the man driving next to me put his foot down hard on the gas, and we pulled even with the black truck. sleek but dirty, new but dented deep, the truck was expensive. amber meadow adams ontario, canada michael dirosa facebook0 twitter linkedin0 la movida no equivalentjed gottliebmarch 28, 2019madrid, spain to the woman who led us into the mouth of the jaguar lettersemer martinmarch 14, 2019merida, mexico © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com