skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation ollie williams our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 26, 2020 how to repeat text as a background image in css using element() author ollie williams 1 comment join conversation there’s a design trend i’ve seen popping up all over the place. maybe you’ve seen it too. it’s this sort of thing where text is repeated over and over. a good example is the price comparison website, gocompare, who used it in a major multi-channel advertising campaign.… read article “how to repeat text as a background image in css using element()” background-image element() article october 28, 2019 a business case for dropping internet explorer author ollie williams 20 comments go to comments the distance between internet explorer (ie) 11 and every other major browser is an increasingly gaping chasm. adding support for a technologically obsolete browser adds an inordinate amount of time and frustration to development. testing becomes onerous. bug-fixing looms large. developers have wanted to abandon ie for years, but is it now financially prudent to do so?… read article “a business case for dropping internet explorer” cross-browser edge internet explorer opinion article october 23, 2019 what i like about writing styles with svelte author ollie williams 8 comments go to comments there’s been a lot of well-deserved hype around svelte recently, with the project accumulating over 24,000 github stars. arguably the simplest javascript framework out there, svelte was written by rich harris, the developer behind rollup. there’s a lot to like about svelte (performance, built-in state management, writing proper markup rather than jsx), but the big draw for me has been its approach to css.… read article “what i like about writing styles with svelte” bem css-in-js preprocessors svelte article september 20, 2019 ux considerations for web sharing author ollie williams comments go to comments from trashy clickbait sites to the most august of publications, share buttons have long been ubiquitous across the web. and yet it is arguable that these buttons aren’t needed. all mobile browsers — firefox, edge, safari, chrome, opera mini, uc browser, samsung internet — make it easy to share content directly from their native platforms. they all feature a built-in button to bring up a "share sheet" — a native dialog for sharing content. you can also highlight text to … read article “ux considerations for web sharing” ux web share article august 30, 2019 styling links with real underlines author ollie williams 10 comments go to comments before we come to how to style underlines, we should answer the question: should we underline? in graphic design, underlines are generally seen as unsophisticated. there are nicer ways to draw emphasis, to establish hierarchy, and to demarcate titles. that’s clear in this advice from butterick’s "practical typography": if you feel the urge to underline, use bold or italic instead. in special situations, like headings, you can also consider using all caps, small caps, or changing the point … read article “styling links with real underlines” links underline article may 23, 2019 front-end documentation, style guides and the rise of mdx author ollie williams 2 comments go to comments you can have the best open source project in the world but, if it doesn’t have good documentation, chances are it’ll never take off. in the office, good documentation could save you having to repeatedly answer the same questions. documentation ensures that people can figure out how things work if key employees decide to leave the company or change roles. well documented coding guidelines help bring consistency to a codebase. if you’re writing long-form text, markdown is clearly a great … read article “front-end documentation, style guides and the rise of mdx” documentation markdown style guides article april 11, 2019 edge goes chromium: what does it mean for front-end developers? author ollie williams 22 comments go to comments in december 2018, microsoft announced that edge would adopt chromium, the open source project that powers google chrome. many within the industry reacted with sadness at the loss of browser diversity. personally, i was jubilant. an official release date has yet to be announced, but it will be at some point this year. with its release, a whole host of html, javascript and css features will have achieved full cross-browser support. the preview build is now available for windows, … read article “edge goes chromium: what does it mean for front-end developers?” chrome cross-browser edge internet explorer article march 15, 2019 web standards meet user-land: using css-in-js to style custom elements author ollie williams 2 comments go to comments the popularity of css-in-js has mostly come from the react community, and indeed many css-in-js libraries are react-specific. however, emotion, the most popular library in terms of npm downloads, is framework agnostic. using the shadow dom is common when creating custom elements, but there’s no requirement to do so. not all use cases require that level of encapsulation. while it’s also possible to style custom elements with css in a regular stylesheet, we’re going to look at using … read article “web standards meet user-land: using css-in-js to style custom elements” css-in-js web components article december 20, 2018 the fragmented, but evolving state of css-in-js author ollie williams 7 comments go to comments tldr: the css-in-js community has converged on a consistent api. not so long ago, a facebook engineer compiled a list of the available css-in-js methodologies. it wasn’t short: aphrodite, babel-plugin-css-in-js, babel-plugin-pre-style, bloody-react-styled, classy, csjs, css-constructor, css-light, css-loader, css-ns, cssobj, cssx-loader, cxs, electron-css, emotion, es-css-modules, freestyler, glamor, glamorous, hiccup-css, hyperstyles, i-css, j2c, jsxstyle, linaria, nano-css, pre-style, radium, react-css-builder, react-css-components, react-css-modules, react-cssom, react-fela, react-free-style, react-inline-css, react-inline-style, react-inline, react-jss, react-look, react-native-web, react-statics-styles, react-styl, react-style, react-styleable, react-stylematic, react-theme, react-vstyle, reactcss, restyles, scope-styles, smart-css, stile-react-media-queries, … read article “the fragmented, but evolving state of css-in-js” css-in-js emotion styled components article may 15, 2018 it all started with emoji: color typography on the web author ollie williams 1 comment go to comments “typography on the web is in single color: characters are either black or red, never black and red …then emoji hit the scene, became part of unicode, and therefore could be expressed by characters — or “glyphs” in font terminology. the smiley, levitating businessman and the infamous pile of poo became true siblings to letters, numbers and punctuation marks.” — roel nieskens using emojis in code is easy. head over to emojipedia and copy and paste one in.… read article “it all started with emoji: color typography on the web” emoji typography web fonts 1 2 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers