the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop sports news in brief olympic dressage rider enraged after spending past 4 years jauntily trotting around on horse for nothing you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am sports tom brady: ‘i want to thank all the insufferable new england fans for giving me a reason to get the hell out of here’ 3/17/20 11:21am more from g/o media read on trump’s call to reopen economy attributed to new floating virus cloud advisor read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on nation close to getting videoconferencing software to work subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe tuesday 11:33am • see more: olympics olympicscoronavirusnewsvol 56 issue 12 somersworth, nh—reeling from shock at the international olympic committee’s decision to postpone the 2020 summer games due to the coronavirus pandemic, dressage rider adelaide merriweather expressed fury tuesday after spending the past four years jauntily trotting around on her horse for nothing. “after countless hours of sitting primly upon this graceful beast and coaxing her to prance about in sublime cadence, you’re telling me it’s all been a waste?” merriweather said before ordering a stable hand to immediately cease brushing the elegant mane of her prize horse, madame amboise, and then firing him on the spot. “all those breezy, cloudless afternoons of daintily clip-clopping up and down this equestrian arena to absolutely nail the perfect piaffe—do you know how long that takes? my family acquired this animal when she was just a foal, and ever since i’ve worn this goddamn top hat and fancy coat as we’ve cantered through the meadows in the brisk spring air, working to make our half-pass maneuver just so. now the ioc is saying i don’t even get to go to tokyo and get a fucking medal?” at press time, sources confirmed merriweather had told her former stable hand that he could collect his final paycheck just as soon as he had euthanized madame amboise with a gunshot to the head. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion study finds female mammals live longer than males trump announces plan to retrain nation’s 3 million unemployed americans as human ventilators 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running historians politely remind nation to check what's happened in past before making any big decisions share tweet