0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 behind the featureoff assignmentmay 18, 2017archives 2 on keeping a sketchbook behind the featureoff assignmentmay 18, 2017archives 2 on keeping a sketchbook what happens when you sit down and draw the world? after we talked to reporters who scribble in notebooks, and photographers who hustle for the perfect shot, we wanted to hear from an illustrator who endeavors to capture an alien world in sketch form. candace rose rardon casts the sketchbook in a fascinating light—not just as a tool for rendering place, but as a means for drawing out its characters. out they come, when the artist plunks down. off assignment: what are we looking at? candace rose rardon: it’s a street in chinatown, san francisco. i sketched it for an assignment about “traveling around the world” within san francisco. i’ve spent a lot of time traveling in asia, so it felt right to begin in chinatown, under the lanterns. oa: how long did you sit there? crr: i’m a very slow artist, so i spent about five or six hours at this scene. i found just about the only bench in chinatown, on grant street, right outside a place called the wok shop. as soon as i sat down, one of the shop’s employees—a man named randy—came out, and people started milling around me. it takes me a lot longer to sketch when people enter the moment. oa: people come right up to you while you’re drawing? crr: totally. what’s always struck me about art—these two kinds, writing and drawing—is just how differently strangers react to them. if i sit and just take notes in a notebook, not a lot of people are going to come up and ask me what i’m writing. but the minute i start drawing, it’s like moths to a flame. i once spent a week sketching in cartagena, colombia, and got to know many of the city’s municipal workers: a security guard at the plaza de san pedro claver; the trash men who swept the streets; a coffee vendor named wilmet. everyday, they’d be like, “what’d you sketch yesterday? what are you going to sketch today? let me see.” oa: why do you think that is? crr: a sketch is a very tangible interpretation of a place. with a writer’s notes, people have to take time to read them, but with art they can literally look at the picture and react. there’s a possibility of live and direct comparison: they can see my interpretation as it unfolds, find the connection between what’s moving me to create, and what i’m creating. oa: and do people usually give feedback? crr: yes—which i find hilarious. i remember sketching on the steps of the boudhanath stupa in kathmandu, and a nepalese guy came up, and he’s like: “but you left out the trash can!” strangers have no qualms about offering their critiques. oa: it’s almost like you’re getting to play observer, disguised as a person at work? crr: exactly. art is very neutralizing. nobody gets alarmed when you’re sitting there making a picture. i remember in bosnia, there was this one street that i was sketching, and people just kept coming up and pointing to the buildings i was drawing and saying, “that’s my home,” or “this is my neighborhood,” and it was such a fascinating way to say back to them, i care about your home. because that’s what the process of art can convey: care. you’re investing so much more time and attention than someone taking a digital photograph. oa: so you feel a drastic difference—between photography and sketching? let's keep in touch get a letter from off assignment every week. email address write me thank you! crr: i love both mediums. but the reason i love sketching above all is that it almost marries writing and photography. when i’m doing a sketch, i’m writing about that place through lines and shapes. i’m paying just as much attention as if i was sitting there taking notes. every sketch is a series of decisions, granting importance to certain elements in the scene. and yet it also results in a visual record, as photography does. oa: in the art of travel, alain de botton explores this idea that the finest way to apprehend beauty is to attempt to recreate it yourself. is this what you’re doing when you sketch? articulating beauty, as you see it? crr: maybe it’s not so much about beauty; my sketch is never going to live up to reality. later, i’ll wish i could’ve captured the light better, the details better. but it’s just my way of chiseling the foreignness away, getting to the heart of what was so alien when i sat down and opened my sketchbook. oa: did this sketch help you chisel into chinatown? crr: it did. there was this woman in her seventies named maggie, who was born in hong kong. she had a walker but kept coming down to the bench where i was sketching, bringing treats: fresh egg rolls, juice, a whole bag of fortune cookies from the wok shop. we sat there and cracked open our cookies and read our fortunes to each other. the last thing she brought down was a painting, the only painting she said she’s ever done, back in 1973. randy, who works at the wok shop, was kind of amazed. he said, “she’s never brought that down, ever.” when i was leaving, maggie said something that encapsulated that entire day in chinatown. she knew i loved traveling, but also that i lived in san francisco, very nearby. but the last thing she said to me was, “enjoy your travels,” as if i was just passing through. but i thought, you know what? that’s the perfect ending to this day, because i did feel like i’d spent the day in hong kong, and i was a ten-minute walk from my apartment. it was a forceful lesson that traveling has nothing to do with distance from our daily lives; it’s a mode, who we become in that moment. am i alive? am i engaged? there’s this switch in perception that flips when i open my sketchbook. suddenly, i become the person i am when i’m traveling. candace rose rardon is a sketch artist and writer based in montevideo, uruguay. her work has appeared on national geographic’s intelligent travel site, world hum, bbc travel, and in lonely planet travel anthologies, among others. she is the author of beneath the lantern’s glow: sketches and stories from southeast asia and japan. see more of candace's work here, and read her tips on sketching here. interview conducted by colleen kinder read a letter to a stranger mar 25, 2020 to the man named "praise god" mar 25, 2020 “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” mar 25, 2020 mar 11, 2020 to the shopkeeper in fez mar 11, 2020 “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” mar 11, 2020 feb 12, 2020 to the man i made into a stranger feb 12, 2020 “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” feb 12, 2020 jan 9, 2020 to the nun who locked eyes with me jan 9, 2020 it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home jan 9, 2020 dec 19, 2019 to the host mother of the do-gooders dec 19, 2019 my good intentions could not stock your pantry. dec 19, 2019 nov 21, 2019 to the fenix who commanded authority nov 21, 2019 on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. nov 21, 2019 nov 7, 2019 to the woman looking for the hospital nov 7, 2019 you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. nov 7, 2019 oct 24, 2019 to the dancer who touched my back oct 24, 2019 it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. oct 24, 2019 oct 10, 2019 to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros oct 10, 2019 latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. oct 10, 2019 sep 26, 2019 to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras sep 26, 2019 i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. sep 26, 2019 off assignment facebook0 twitter linkedin0 faq no equivalentrachel pieh jonesmay 25, 2017somaliaarchives 2 to sandals man letterscraig modmay 11, 2017chinaarchives 2 © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com