i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: easy healthier weeknight baked pork meatballs recipe easy keto mains meat recipes one pan creamy dijon mustard mushroom chicken if you’re looking for a quick and easy dinner that’s full of flavor, this one pan creamy dijon mustard is for you. posted march 14, 2020 by stephanie if you’re looking for a quick and easy dinner that’s full of flavor, this one pan creamy dijon mustard is for you! i made this for a quick dinner the other day after coming in from a walk where i basically stopped to talk to every dog we met. i get so excited when i see puppies and their owners are always so patient and friendly. i’m pretty sure when you get a dog, you know that you’re in for people randomly accosting you to talk to your pet. it’s hilarious because walking around our neighborhood, we’ve definitely gotten to know the dogs that go out on walks. i remember all the dog’s names but i have honestly ever asked to know their human’s names. hilarious, right? anyway, this dish came together super quickly – the most time consuming thing is definitely slicing the mushrooms. if you’re tight on time, you can always get sliced mushrooms, but i always like slicing my own. i am obsessed with sautéed mushrooms. they’re so earthy, juicy, and full of umami. the best way to get them brown and seared on the outside while still being juicy on the inside is to make sure that you don’t get them wet. yup, that means you shouldn’t wash your mushrooms! my mom would probably die if she knew that i just gently brush my mushrooms off (if they’re really dirty i wipe them with a damp paper towel) but it’s the only way to do it. the best thing is to get mushrooms that are pretty pristine looking. these days there are a ton of fun different mushrooms out there: shiitakes, king mushrooms, oyster, enoki, and the list goes on. if you have an asian grocery store nearby, definitely check out their mushroom selection – they’re typically grown with out dirt which makes cleaning them a non-event. plus the different textures and flavors of mixed mushrooms make dishes so much more tasty. in this case, i just used regular ol’ cremini mushrooms. they’re the base of flavor of this dish. added to that is a bit of spicy dijon, cream for richness, chicken for protein, and kale for greens. it’s the perfect little one pan dish that happens to be keto friendly! if you’re looking for more fat, use skin on chicken thighs. i went with boneless skinless chicken breast because we happened to have some in the fridge, which is kind of a rarity. we hardly ever eat chicken breasts, but we both agreed that these chicken breasts were delicious. the key is searing them quickly – because they’re halved, they cook very quickly but still take on some nice golden brown goodness. hope you get a chance to make this. it’s definitely been on repeat around here! one pan creamy dijon mustard mushroom chicken this super quick weeknight creamy mushroom chicken gets an extra boost of flavor from dijon. serve it with toast or over noodles or have it on it’s own – it’s low carb and keto friendly! prep time 10 mins cook time 15 mins total time 25 mins ingredients 2 boneless skinless chicken breasts cut in half lengthwise salt and freshly ground pepper 1 tbsp olive oil 2 tbsp butter 8 ounces mushrooms of choice sliced 4 cloves garlic sliced 1/2 cup chicken stock unsalted 1/2 cup heavy cream 1 tbsp dijon mustard 2-3 large handfuls leafy greens/spinach if desired instructions cut the chicken breasts in half lengthwise to make four thin cutlets. season both sides with salt and freshly ground pepper. add the oil to a skillet over medium high-heat and sear the chicken until golden and cooked through, flipping once, 2-3 minutes per side. remove and set aside. add the butter to the pan. when melted, add the mushrooms and sear until golden, flipping as needed. stir in the garlic and cook until soft. add the chicken broth and cream. bring to a boil until the sauce thickens. stir in the dijon until smooth, then the greens until they wilt. add the chicken back to the pan. season with salt and pepper and enjoy! leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website chickenchicken breastdijonkaleketoketo friendlylow-carbmushroomsmustard coconut curry chickpea stewread lemon pepper chicken with lemon and dill cous cousread spicy chili crisp white bean and barley stew with kale and eggsread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved