skip to content delivering gaming news without remorse news industry news politics previews reviews pc xbox xbox one xbox 360 xbox one x playstation ps3 ps4 ps vita nintendo nintendo switch nintendo 3ds wii u mobile media comic books entertainment movies screenshots trailers television videos guides cheats walkthroughs nintendo pc xbox playstation features angry assault open discussion events e3 2019 pax east 2020 gamescom 2019 evo 2019 tokyo game show 2019 get woke; go broke interesting content interviews technology the barrens weekly recap search for: shantae and the seven sirens release date set for may 28th, 2020 march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 billy d wayforward technologies announced that there’s a new shantae game in the works and it’s due out a heck of a lot sooner than you may have been anticipating. while mistress corona-chan may be spreading bed-ridden kisses to the masses, shantae and the seven sirens won’t be one of them. in fact, you can look for the game to launch on pc and home consoles starting may 28th. weirdly, the game is available right now on the apple arcade, but no real gamer gives a crap about apple’s service. continue reading “shantae and the seven sirens release date set for may 28th, 2020” posted in news, nintendo switch, pc, ps4, screenshots, trailers, xbox onetagged 2d platformer, nintendo switch, pc, ps4, shantae and the seven sirens, wayforward games, xbox one comment on shantae and the seven sirens release date set for may 28th, 2020 idea factory wants to know if you want pozzed censorship or sexy waifus for death end re;quest 2 march 27, 2020 kevin there is no longer denying the growing influence the west is having on the gaming industry around the world. not purely the consumers, but the entrenched and established groups that work to push agendas over profitability. continue reading “idea factory wants to know if you want pozzed censorship or sexy waifus for death end re;quest 2” posted in news, pc, screenshotstagged compile heart, death end re;quest 2, idea factory international, jrpg, pc comment on idea factory wants to know if you want pozzed censorship or sexy waifus for death end re;quest 2 kaze and the wild masks free beta key giveaway march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 billy d soedesco decided to partner up with one angry gamer and giveaway a number of free keys for the kaze and the wild masks closed beta test. the test will get underway starting today on march 27th, and it will run up through april 6th. so you have around two weeks to get in on the action, and we’ll be providing you with some keys to do so. continue reading “kaze and the wild masks free beta key giveaway” posted in features, news, pc, trailerstagged 2d platformer, giveaway, kaze and the wild masks, pc, soedesco, vox game studio comment on kaze and the wild masks free beta key giveaway dead or alive 6 patch 1.21a revises premium hair color feature march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 billy d koei tecmo and team ninja sent out an update, indicating that you no longer need to purchase a premium ticket in order to change the hair color for every single hair color change for a hairstyle. now if you unlock the option to change the hair color for a style, you can alter the hair color for that style as much as you want without having to pay for it. continue reading “dead or alive 6 patch 1.21a revises premium hair color feature” posted in news, ps4tagged dead or alive 6, fighting game, koei tecmo, microtransactions, ps4, team ninja comment on dead or alive 6 patch 1.21a revises premium hair color feature fate/stay night: heaven’s feel 3 spring song delayed to april 25th due to covid-19 march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 billy d the anime of fate/stay night: heaven’s feel chapter iii spring song won’t be hitting theaters as it was originally scheduled to in the spring. the theatrical debut in north america has been cancelled, while the premiere in japan has been postponed to april 25th. continue reading “fate/stay night: heaven’s feel 3 spring song delayed to april 25th due to covid-19” posted in entertainment, interesting content, news, trailerstagged anime, aniplex, coronavirus, fate/stay night heaven's feel 3, movie comment on fate/stay night: heaven’s feel 3 spring song delayed to april 25th due to covid-19 bioware to revive one of its “prestigious franchises” next-gen, says report march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 ethan bioware has been in the news for all the wrong reasons as of late. with anthem flopping hard and many familiar faces leaving the company to start up indie studios that “aren’t too corporate,” it wouldn’t be wrong to think that the ea owned subsidiary has a grim future ahead. however, it looks like next-gen will bring fans of bioware a “prestigious franchise” according to a new report. continue reading “bioware to revive one of its “prestigious franchises” next-gen, says report” posted in industry news, news, pc, ps5, xbox series xtagged bioware, electronic arts, next-gen, pc, ps5, xbox series x comment on bioware to revive one of its “prestigious franchises” next-gen, says report last oasis, mech-walker survival mmo enters early access on steam march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 billy d polish developer donkey crew announced that their survival-mmo, last oasis, has launched onto the steam store. the game is a third-person action title with a focus on traversing and exploring a post-apocalyptic world using mechanized walkers. continue reading “last oasis, mech-walker survival mmo enters early access on steam” posted in news, pc, trailerstagged donkey crew, last oasis, mmo, pc, steam early access, survival game comment on last oasis, mech-walker survival mmo enters early access on steam epic games becomes a publisher, partners with gen design, playdead, and remedy march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 ethan it looks like epic games and its “service” will be acquiring exclusives another way this time around. as of today, the company has announced that epic games publishing has signed gen design, playdead, and remedy under its wing to make “next-gen games.” continue reading “epic games becomes a publisher, partners with gen design, playdead, and remedy” posted in industry news, news, pc, videostagged epic games publishing, epic games store, gen design, industry news, playdead studio, remedy entertainment comment on epic games becomes a publisher, partners with gen design, playdead, and remedy hellboy reboot star blames failure on del toro fans for film’s failure march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 kevin imagine being so conceited you believe you are allowed to walk into a fandom, take it over, and then without presenting anything said audience actually wants, demand they go and see it. that is what happened with hellboy in the lackluster 2019 reboot that not only did no one ask for, but people actively asked them not to do it. continue reading “hellboy reboot star blames failure on del toro fans for film’s failure” posted in entertainment, newstagged hellboy (2019), movie, sjws comment on hellboy reboot star blames failure on del toro fans for film’s failure mortal kombat 9, mortal kombat komplete edition pulled from stores march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 billy d netherrealm studios and warner bros. entertainment have apparently been culling the mortal kombat games from digital storefronts. both mortal kombat 9 and mortal kombat komplete edition have been pulled from stores, with reports that the online multiplayer functionality for both will be shut down. continue reading “mortal kombat 9, mortal kombat komplete edition pulled from stores” posted in news, pc, ps3, screenshots, xbox 360tagged mortal kombat 9, mortal kombat: komplete edition, netherrealm studios, pc, ps3, steam, warner bros entertainment, xbox 360 comment on mortal kombat 9, mortal kombat komplete edition pulled from stores avalanche studios rebrands and teases a new game march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 kevin avalanche studios’ last few years have not been what can be called successful. rage 2 developed in concert with id software went on to sell a quarter of the volume the original game pulled in, according to forbes. generation zero, developed by systemic worlds one of their subsidiaries, went on to be known more for its controversial similarity to the artworks of simon stålenhag than for being a quality product. just cause 4 sold so poorly it failed to recoup its development cost (page 3). leaving the once-beloved albeit flawed developer a shell of their former glory. continue reading “avalanche studios rebrands and teases a new game” posted in news, pc, playstation, trailers, xboxtagged avalanche studios, pc, playstation, xbox comment on avalanche studios rebrands and teases a new game snowrunner trailer highlights cargo hauls, truck trailers march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 billy d focus home interactive and saber interactive released a new trailer for snowrunner, the upcoming truck simulator for home consoles and the epic games store, this time highlighting the game’s focus on hauling cargo and attaching different trailers to the back of your rig. continue reading “snowrunner trailer highlights cargo hauls, truck trailers” posted in news, pc, ps4, screenshots, trailers, xbox onetagged focus home interactive, pc, ps4, racing game, saber interactive, snowrunner, xbox one comment on snowrunner trailer highlights cargo hauls, truck trailers yakuza 7: like a dragon charges for new game plus march 26, 2020 kevin in a heartwarming display of solidarity, the japanese entertainment industry came together earlier this month to help out the japanese people by releasing their content for free. yes, it had some advantages for the companies, but it never the less was a charitable act for the people’s benefit. at the same time, the japanese gaming industry has taken the opposite approach. continue reading “yakuza 7: like a dragon charges for new game plus” posted in news, pc, ps4tagged ps4, sega, yakuza 7 comment on yakuza 7: like a dragon charges for new game plus posts navigation older posts collectible gear (ads) sin seven deadly sins lucifer bunny ver. 1/4 scale pvc painted figure freeing aug188690 gantz: reika (bunny version) 1: 4 scale pvc figure, multicolor union creative hdge technical statue no. 15 gantz:o reika x shotgun pvc figure banpresto ghost in the shell arise dxf figure motoko kusanagi (48626) suicide squad fk ssqd hq01 12mm dc suicide squad harley quinn finders keypers luoyongyou game azur lane: atago cat ear cute action figure model toys (white) mystique bds art scale 1/10 – marvel comics series 5 freeing dead or alive xtreme 3: honoka bunny version 1: 4 scale pvc figure onepiece stampede movie flag diamondi ship nami yamato queen's blade rebellion branwen pvc figure wonder festival 2008 winter limited excellent model limited queens blade mercenaries of veteran echidna 2p color ver. pvc painted figures top discussions animal crossing: new horizons includes lesbian reference animal crossing: new horizons dev admits gender depiction was due to agenda-pushers nintendo of america partners with brie larson for animal crossing: new horizons resident evil 3 remake demo gains nude mod and classic jill outfit trials of mana remake censors angela’s booty-shaking typhoon attack (advertisement) get angry with us on facebook get woke/get censored get woke, go broke master list steam waifu banned game list sjw sexual misconduct master list sony censored games master list (advertisement) gaming topics #gamergate 2d platformers 3d platformers action-rpgs adventure games battle royale games beat-’em-up games censorship fighting games flight simulators first-person shooters hack-and-slash games horror games isometric games japanese rpgs kickstarter projects lgbt propaganda mobas modding mystery games mmos nsfw point-and-click games racing games rogue-like role-playing games sexual misconduct social justice warriors space simulators sports games stealth games steam greenlight third-person shooters visual novels virtual reality games (advertisement) site policies advertiser policy ethics policy privacy policy terms of service site info about page staff page contact info rss feeds social media facebook telegram instagram oag mobile app proudly powered by wordpress | theme: x-blog by wpthemespace.com do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site! this website uses cookies. if you're okay with that accept to proceed.accept reject read more privacy & cookies policy close privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. necessary always enabled necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. these cookies do not store any personal information. we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okrefuse consentprivacy policy