engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login how well did the xperia 1’s super tall screen work for users? xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 the morning after: reviewing the ipad pro (2020) latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 20m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 2h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: oneplus 8 pro will reportedly include wireless charging and waterproofing it may also come in a lovely seafoam green-like color. igor bonifacic, @igorbonifacic 03.26.20 comments 47 shares share tweet share sponsored links steve hemmerstoffer despite their value proposition, oneplus phones have long had two significant flaws: to date, they've never included an official water-resistance rating or support for wireless charging. as the cost of the company's devices has increased with each subsequent release, that's something that has started to irk people. but it looks like oneplus will finally address those issues. unfortunately, you may need to buy the company's most expensive device to get those features. on twitter, leaker ishan agarwal shared spec sheets detailing most of the features and internals of the oneplus 8 and oneplus 8 pro. the interesting bit of information here is that reportedly only the pro model will include wireless charging and an ip68 water-resistance rating. agarwal claims the oneplus 8 pro will support 30w wireless fast charging. when asked about inductive charging in the past, oneplus ceo pete lau has consistently said the company didn't want to include the feature until it could make it as fast as its wired power adapter, which it appears it has been able to do. taking a page from samsung's bag of tricks, the phone will also be able to inductively charge other qi-compatible devices you place on its back. as expected, the higher-end variant will also feature a 120hz refresh panel, instead of a 90hz one. it will also include faster lpddr5 ram, a quad-camera array with two 48-megapixel sensors and a sizeable 4,510mah battery. other than the addition of a snapdragon 865 processor, a slightly bigger battery and a 12gb ram option, it doesn't look like the more affordable oneplus 8 will be a significant upgrade over the 7t. looking at the camera specs, the 8 may also feature a less versatile camera than its predecessor. it seems oneplus plans to trade out either the 7t's telephoto or ultrawide camera for a 2-megapixel depth sensor. in a separate leak, slashleaks co-owner steve hemmerstoffer shared what he claims are official renders of the oneplus 8 pro in a lovely seafoam green-like color. none of the leaked specs are a surprise at this point, but they give us our best idea yet of what we can expect from oneplus' latest phones. we'll likely learn more about the handsets as oneplus slowly drip feeds more information about them ahead of their eventual release. in this article: gadgetry, gadgets, gear, leak, mobile, oneplus, oneplus 8, oneplus 8 pro, smartphone all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 47 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr