find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories for educators coursera for educators insights and inspiration for teaching world-class courses online latest updates: for educators featured moving online: what you can implement now march 16, 2020 photo taken from the imba program from the university of illinois, hosted on coursera by linlin xia and alexandra urban,… education 31 new for partners: redesigned course authoring and admin tools december 17, 2019 by jennifer wolochow, senior product manager at coursera coursera is committed to helping our 200+ university and industry partners create transformational learning experiences. authoring and managing courses is a vital aspect to our platform, and the tools to do so are used by thousands of partners on a weekly, if not daily, basis. that’s why… product update 8 how to integrate mastery learning into course design august 6, 2019 by adam hodges, ph.d., sr. teaching & learning specialist a fundamental challenge for course design is how to improve learner performance on educational outcomes. the key to doing this in online education is to maximize the mastery learning principles built into the coursera platform. the traditional model of education revolves around a fixed time frame… education 11 insights from the administrator track of the 2019 coursera partners conference may 16, 2019 by cathryn richter, principal partnership manager we wrapped the 2019 coursera partners conference at the university of london last month, and program quality was a primary topic of discussion as more partners invest in for-credit programs on coursera like degree programs and mastertrack™ certificates. the administrator track (at) sessions convened top institutional decision-makers to discuss… partners conference 7 key insights from the course teams track at the 2019 coursera partners conference may 16, 2019 by nikki gibson tea and scones were a star attraction at this year’s 2019 coursera partners conference, which took place at the historical university of london. the course teams track brought together a diverse group of participants: instructors, instructional designers, project managers, administrators, video producers, media specialists, marketing specialists, and many others. over the course… partners conference 7 teach the world: listening to the learner may 16, 2019 by rupal nayar on april 3rd, 2019, thomas friedman kicked off the 2019 coursera partners conference quoting dov siedman: “when you press pause on a machine, it stops. but when you press pause on human beings they start — start to reflect, rethink assumptions, and reimagine a better path.” for the dynamic world of online… partners conference 4 nail it, then scale it: doubling down on data to achieve platform success may 16, 2019 by alexandra urban nail it at its core, every technology company should be leveraging data to improve its services and help users reach their goals. at coursera, we’re doubling down on the importance of data, machine learning, and artificial intelligence to propel our partners and platform towards the future of higher education. a crucial piece… partners conference 14 educator product news coursera’s superheroes: meet the mentor team october 5, 2016 by kapeesh saraf, director of product management & claire smith, community manager coursera was founded to help anyone, anywhere transform their life through access to the world’s best education. we’ve always known that education is more than just content - that the most effective learning experiences include discussion and debate, and that sometimes you need ...read more now available: in-browser coding on coursera september 30, 2016 by christine wong, product manager when you take a course on coursera, we want you to have the opportunity to work on challenging, hands-on projects – so that when you finish, you know you’re ready to apply your skills in the real world. but we also know that working up to those big projects takes ...read more new models for project-based learning in specializations september 9, 2016 since we launched our first specializations in 2014, we’ve worked with our partners to integrate practical, hands-on projects into every specialization curriculum. today, we’re excited to announce a few changes that will make those hands-on experiences more impactful and accessible for all learners, which you’ll start to see incorporated in the new group of specializations ...read more coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates