stuck at home? not sure how to lose weight and get healthy on your own? learn why having your own online trainer can be the difference maker. if you’ve ever wished you just had “more willpower” to stop eating junk food… if you’ve ever looked in the mirror and been unhappy with what you see… if you’ve ever struggled with not having enough motivation…. welcome to the club! it’s called “being human.” there’s like, 7 billion of us. and this “getting in shape” stuff is really difficult! we spend more money than ever on pills, powders, and supplements. we do endless hours of cardio in the gym and dutifully follow free workouts on youtube. we follow every rule we’ve ever heard (“eat 6 small meals a day! never miss breakfast! get your heart rate in the fat burning zone!”). despite all of this time, money, and energy, it doesn’t work. in fact, things are getting worse. a recent report noted that over 40% of america is obese these days. no wonder we get depressed looking in the mirror! we put in all this work, we spent our hard-earned money on get-fit-quick solutions, and we aren’t seeing results. thus, we feel hopeless. and we know from star wars just how important a new hope can be. so that’s what i want to provide you with today. hope. hope that you can change and lose weight and keep the weight off permanently. hope that you can do so without hating your life and hating your diet and hating exercise. hope that you can look in the mirror and not just tolerate the person looking back at you, but love them and be proud of the body you built. not only is that hope above not misplaced, but all of those things, no matter how far off they might appear for you right now, are both possible and probable: you don’t have to do this all alone. there’s another way. if you’ve ever felt overwhelmed when it came to your health and fitness, you’re not alone. if you’ve ever felt bad for not having enough motivation to stick with a workout plan, you’re not alone. if you’ve ever felt like no matter what you do you’ll never lose that weight, you’re not alone. the truth of the matter is this: it’s not your fault! like morpheus tells neo in the matrix, all of the above “is the wool that has been pulled over your eyes to hide the truth:” that conventional wisdom doesn’t work. that endless hours of cardio doesn’t work. that relying on willpower and motivation doesn’t work. you see, you’re a special snowflake (your mom was right!) and that means: the diet plan you pulled off a free website probably won’t work for you in the long run. whether it’s paleo, vegetarian, keto, whole 30, calorie counting, atkins, or anything in between, you have to pick the plan that lines up with you. it means the free youtube workout video you watched won’t help you reach the exact goals you’ve laid out for yourself. whether it’s a cardio kickboxing class, an ab-shredder program, or even bodyweight bootcamps, simply doing the workout won’t be enough to make you look like the model in the video. here’s why: you don’t have the same body type, hormones, genetics, nutritional opportunities, or lifestyle as everybody else. it’s no surprise then that generic plans or strategies don’t work for your specific situation. now, if none of that stuff above works… what actually does work? in my experience and the success i’ve seen in my 9 years of running nerd fitness, you’re significantly more likely to lose weight and keep the weight off if you have the following: a nutrition strategy that is built around your lifestyle, relationship with food, and preferences. a workout plan crafted for your specific goals and how much time you can commit to exercise. accountability from an expert who knows you better than you know yourself. i have found a solution that works myself and the right members of the nerd fitness community (that’s you!), and it’s what i’m so excited to talk to you about below. you see, for years i’ve been cheating when it comes to getting in shape. i feel like i’ve been playing a video game on god mode, or with all of the codes enabled. after years of struggling to get in shape, to convince myself that i just needed to work harder, be smarter, and use more willpower to get myself to actually go to the gym, i made a change that has changed my life. i hired an online coach. 4+ years later, i can’t imagine not having an online personal trainer help me with my goals, keep me accountable, and i’m so proud that we can finally offer this experience to the general public through nerd fitness too. a personal accountability coach is like having your own yoda in your pocket (not a euphemism) that is keeping you on the straight and narrow path to becoming a jedi. our clients sign into their nerd fitness coaching app and follow the workout that has been customized for their goals. they track their food based on the guidance provided by their coach. and they interact with their coach who is checking in on them, rooting for them to succeed, and picking them up when they’re down. it seems silly, but just knowing that somebody is actively cheering you on can be enough to make habits start to stick. and that doesn’t even factor in that the expert is also crafting a plan and strategy that is unique to your goals and time commitments. think of it like a paint-by-number coloring book. you don’t have to learn how to draw, you just need to follow the instructions and you end up with a damn good looking picture! the same goes for online coaching. you don’t need to figure out the perfect plan. you just need to follow the instructions that are personalized to you. instead of waking up miserable, our clients wake up excited for the day ahead. instead of being overwhelmed by all the choices that need to be made, they just follow the plan that is laid out for them. instead of getting mad at themselves for not having enough willpower, they have a plan that doesn’t require willpower to stay on track. whether you have hundreds of pounds to lose or you’re training to improve at a particular sport or gymnastic move (we have clients in both categories), our personal accountability coaches can create a plan that customized to your life, your body, and your schedule. take your online personal trainer with you, wherever you go… seriously! your progress is summarized in our easy-to-use app! we set up your nutrition, exercise plan and help you establish goals. our app helps by sending notifications when you complete events in your training plan. the system also provides reminders when it’s time for workouts and check-ins. workouts are sent directly to your phone. follow training plans that you can start using today and are sent directly to your phone through our app. each workout can include notes and instruction about how best to achive your goals. when needed we can even upload custom exercise videos to your workout plan. you’ll log your nutrition and intake for weekly reviews. your coach will help guide you through nutrition adjustments that are actually sustainable. nutrition is 80-90% of the battle, and your coach wants to set you up to win! you’ll choose from several quick and easy ways to track and measure success – and make important nutritional adjustments week to week. what you get as a nerd fitness coaching client you don’t need to take this journey alone – we are here to help you, guide you, teach you, and walk alongside you (in your pocket on your phone!). let me start off by sharing with you how the whole system works. expert guidance in your pocket! as i mentioned earlier, think of it like having your own personal yoda in your pocket. you’ll communicate with your online coach through the mobile app, and he or she will help design your program from the ground up to fit your lifestyle. mindset mapping: you’ll share your hopes, dreams, fears, and superpower desires, and that will help us handcraft a personal program that fits with your personality and lifestyle. we all have pitfalls, triggers, and kryptonite that can knock us off our game. over time, your coach will get to know you better than you know yourself and can help you avoid all of those issues so you don’t sabotage yourself! no guesswork: simply wake up and check into your app. you’ll see any messages from your coach along with your assigned workout or activities for the day. just follow the instructions. have a plan for every situation: whether you have a vacation coming up or a birthday party and you’re not sure what you should eat or how you should plan/prepare, we got you covered. we can help you solve any situation that you’re struggling with and keep you on target! accountability from an expert: if you start slacking or skipping your workouts, guess who gets alerted? your coach! we know this stuff is tough, so there’s no guilt – just honesty and empathy along with a discussion on how you can get back engaged. camaraderie and fellowship: you also have access to a private group of others who are working with your same coach. feedback on your form and progress: you can share videos of certain exercises that you do, and your online personal trainer can help correct your form and make suggestions on where you can make improvements. no judgment. we know your life is busy, and that you aren’t as healthy as you want to be. that’s okay! our coaches are no-judgment, no guilt, teammates who just want to help you reach your goals. if you fall off the wagon or go on a weekend binge eating session, your coach will be there on monday ready to say “let’s get back at it. you got this.” love the person you see in the mirror. we speak with every potential coaching client, and we hear from many of them: “i just want to be happy with the person i see in the mirror.” our methods work, and nerd fitness has helped hundreds of thousands of people all over the world get healthy. what kind of results are possible? single mom leslie lost 90 pounds! “i’ve been overweight my whole life. i’ve attempted every diet out there, starved, binged, starved again, the whole nine yards. i hated exercise because i couldn’t do anything without launching into a full-blown asthma attack, so i avoided it. i thought nf coaching would be weekly, generic workout/nutrition assignments sent by my coach in an impersonal, drill-sergeant-like, bootcamp fashion, with some check-ins along the way to keep me accountable. i expected to receive a strict list of what i could/couldn’t eat – when i had to do my workouts – when i had to check in, etc. what i found instead was a very friendly, intelligent, enthusiastic coach who made an amazing effort to tailor personalized programs for nutrition, exercise, mindset around me. my coach gave me the freedom of not only planning my workouts around my busy schedule, but he never seemed “judgey” or condescending about what i ate or what i could/couldn’t physically do. jim felt more like a “workout partner” than a drill sergeant, always asking how i was doing, where i needed help, what my new goals were, and even helping me figure out ways to stretch better, heal faster, and work harder, the smart way. he never made me feel bad for where i was in my journey, or what i couldn’t accomplish, which is invaluable in a coach, because it helped keep me motivated and always looking forward.” losing 40 lbs. helped joe face voldemort! “last year, i surprised my wife with a trip to universal to go to harry potter world. we got down there, i spent a lot of money to get in the park early and buy fast passes. the park was awesome, and then we went to ride the main ride. we went through the line and got up to the ride. i sat down next to my wife, and the attendant came over to close the over-shoulder restraints. they wouldn’t close. they kept trying to push on it, but nothing. so they made me get off the ride. i told my wife to ride it without me, she didn’t want to, but she did. i had to walk off the ride in front of everyone. they took me to the side to a test seat, and it wouldn’t close. i was too fat to ride the ride we came for. it was probably the most embarrassing moment of my adult life. so last week, which was a year later and 40 lbs lighter, we went back to universal and i kicked that ride’s butt. not only did i fit and ride, but i rode it 3 times. victory!” joe lost 50 pounds, passed the bar, and leveled up! “the 1-on-1 coaching program plans out long-term change for me—the workouts, the habit changes, the healthy eating—so that all i have to focus on is doing it. and yup, the “doing” part certainly isn’t easy… but when someone is encouraging you, guiding you, texting you regularly, and helping you understand how to integrate healthy changes into your own unique lifestyle and day-to-day activities, actually doing the program becomes much easier than you would think. every single time i do a workout, i get better. every time i eat healthy, i can feel a difference (even if its very slight). because of that, i don’t sweat the cost because i know that the money i would have been spending on unhealthy habits like fast food, eating out, and sweets is going towards making me a happier, healthier person.” frequently asked questions (and attempted answers) i don’t have access to a gym, do i need one? no, you do not need a gym. our online coaches can customize your plan to include the equipment or lack of equipment that you have on hand. we’ll meet you where you are, and help you with a plan that is built for your specific situation. i have previous injuries, can you still coach me? in most cases, yes. our online personal trainers are certified and trained, with two decades of combined coaching experience. your coach will meet and talk through your specific situation, your past injuries, and your current limitations (if any). i have dietary restrictions, halp? no problem. we’ll work with you on your nutrition based on your lifestyle and physiological needs. diet and nutrition is not a one-size-fits all solution. we’ll create a plan that takes this into account for you. wait, so i get a whole coach to myself? your coach has a small group of like-minded clients (around a few dozen) that they hold accountable, customize training and nutrition for, and help set and track goals. you’ll have the opportunity to talk to other clients in the private facebook group, as well! our low client numbers allow our coaches to really get to know each client – likely better than you even know yourself – over time. what kind of time commitment is this? i’m a busy mom with active kids. most of our coaching clients work out 2-3 times per week on their custom plans. obviously, small nutritional tweaks will be an ongoing commitment, but you won’t be spending hours cooking niched food every day. this program is built around your busy schedule, but we are also gonna hold you accountable to making your fitness a priority. we have clients from many countries and all walks of life – with the far majority of them leading extremely packed, busy lives. i’ve always wanted to (touch my toes/run a 5k/do a pull-up/levitate). can this coaching help me? with the exception of levitation, our coaches can put together a plan for almost any goal or dream you have. really, we have clients across the spectrum of goals. some want to run their first mile, while others are training for marathons. some are learning how to use free weights for strength training for the first time, others are training for local powerlifting compeition. we have people wanting to dunk a basketball for the first time, and others who want to simply be able to play with their kids outside without being winded. be honest with your goals, and your coaches can get you there. is nerd fitness coaching really worth the cost? in-person trainers can cost anywhere between $60-$150+ per hour – based on a wide variety of experience levels, gym overhead, and location. training with them just twice per week in a gym means you’re shelling out at least $500/month, with experienced coaches coming in at over $1,000 per month (or $10,000+ for the year, yikes!). extreme prices aside, many of these “gym” training sessions don’t address your nutrition or your mental attitude. and that’s why it’s no surprise they have a high turnover and rising costs. while 1-on-1 online personal training is a serious investment, we can offer this more well-rounded approach than many local trainers at a lower cost because of our streamlined process, simplified training and calendar app, and experienced and passionate trainers and coaches. our new app and technology have been able to save our coaches critical time in creating our customized workout plans and nutrition tweaks – and thus we’re proud to announce we’re able to bring our bring our price down from $297 per month (where it was for 18 months) to only $197 per month for our new clients this month. we have no contracts of any sort – and our clients can cancel at anytime. even without long-term contracts, our average client stays 10-12 months. we are in this for the long-term for our clients and are seeking those who are ready to make a long-term commitment in themselves. schedule a consultation we speak with each and every person to hear their story and see if our coaching program would be a good fit! simply enter your information below and schedule your free consultation with a member of team nerd fitness. first name email address* submit after you submit your info above, you'll pick your preferred time for us to call you. we'll also follow up with an email! we don't share your information with anybody, especially not with death eaters, hydra, or sauron. © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy | disclaimer