programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started new! nanodegree program become a product manager envision and lead the product strategy of industry-defining products, and learn to successfully bring them to market. influence the execution of product development as a product manager, one of the most highly-coveted roles in technology. download syllabusenroll now estimated time 4 months at 10 hours / week enroll by march 27, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites no experience required see prerequisites in detail "product managers play a critical role in making sure that the right product gets built. this starts by deeply understanding your users and the problems that you are solving for, then working with a number of different teams to identify and build a solution. after launching a product, it’s an amazing feeling when you see people using your product in the real world."— alex king, product manager at uber what you will learn download syllabus syllabus product manager product managers are responsible for designing and delivering a profitable product or feature into the market. in this program, you will learn to define product strategy and kpis based on market analysis, pitch a product vision to get stakeholder buy-in, and design a user-centered prototype that adheres to engineering constraints. then, you will develop an execution timeline that handles competing priorities, communicate a product roadmap that builds consensus amongst internal stakeholders, and create a comprehensive go-to-market plan based on product kpis. finally, you will build tests to enhance product features based on market data. envision and lead the product strategy of industry-defining products, and learn to successfully bring them to market. influence the execution of product development as a product manager, one of the most highly-coveted roles in technology. hide details 4 months to complete prerequisite knowledge no experience requiredsee detailed requirements. product strategy the most effective products start with a comprehensive market-based, insight-driven strategy. identify the right problems to solve through market research, target user definition, and market sizing. create a compelling vision and strategy that will set up the team to solve those problems. understand how to communicate effectively to get people excited and invested in your ideas.pitch a product vision product design take an idea through concept, design, and user validation phases, and create a spec to handoff to engineering for development. use design-thinking methodologies to explore various ideas, and then converge on a single idea. map out the full concept through creation of a prototype that can be used to validate that you’re solving a problem for real users. run a design sprint product development learn the critical soft skills needed to manage the development and execution phase of the product. collaborate with cross-functional teams and stakeholders to guide them through planning and execution. manage stakeholder expectations and handle risks that arise, reprioritizing feature and sprint priorities to tackle competing requests. manage the product development process product launch create a plan, identify the launch risks, and figure out how to minimize their impact on your launch. collaborate with a variety of teams including marketing, sales, customer support, and more to prepare them to interface with customers as the product is launched. execute the launch and use feedback from your customers to determine the next steps for your product. deliver a product to market according to paysa, the u.s. national base pay for a product manager is $125,000. all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best anastasia root product manager at google anastasia is a growth product manager at google, leading growth for the google ios search app. prior to google, anastasia has worked on products in real estate, fintech, dating, navigation, and enterprise software. alex king product manager at uber alex is passionate about simplifying complex user problems. he leads rider experience for jump bikes & scooters, and previously setup experiences for smart home devices like google wifi, google home, and chromecast. yuva murugan product consultant yuva has led saas products across various-stage startups and fortune 10 companies. she is dedicated to evolving a company’s vision into a product with a strong market fit, while creating delightful user experiences. related programs ai product manager nanodegree program develop products that leverage ai technology. beginner ai for business leaders executive program strategically implement ai in your company. intermediate program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? product managers are highly coveted roles in both enterprises and startups. it’s a role involves leading many cross-functional teams to develop new products and features from scratch, and bring them to market. this program is designed for students who want to assume key leadership roles in product development in their company. you will learn how to define product strategy and kpis based on market analysis, pitch a product vision to get stakeholder buy-in, and design a user-centered prototype that adheres to engineering constraints. then, you will develop an execution timeline that handles competing priorities, communicate a product roadmap that builds consensus amongst internal stakeholders, and create a comprehensive go-to-market plan based on product kpis. finally, once launching a product into the market, you’ll learn how to build tests to enhance product features based on market data. what jobs will this program prepare me for? this program will equip you with the foundational skills to assume entry-level product manager roles. you’ll learn directly from experienced product managers at uber and google, who have constructed this nanodegree program to equip you with the most in-demand and relevant industry skills. how do i know if this program is right for me? this program is intended for anyone who wants to be equipped to become a product manager. if you want to learn the core skill set required in all product manager roles, which is the foundation for more specialized roles like growth product manager, data product manager, ai product manager, and more, this program is for you. why should you want to become a product manager? product manager is a top 5 job on linkedin's most promising jobs for 2019, and one of the most coveted roles in large tech enterprises, as well as entrepreneurial startups. glassdoor lists product manager in the top 4 in their list for the 50 best jobs in america for 2020. with a starting base salary of $125,000, product management roles in the us have grown an astounding 32% over just a two year period, from august 2017 to june 2019, higher than software engineering job growth (21%) and overall us job growth (6%) during that same time span. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? no. this nanodegree program accepts all applicants regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? no prior experience with product management is required. you will need to be comfortable with basic computer skills, such as managing files, using third-party online programs, and navigating the internet through an online browser. you will also need access to a video camera on a computer. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the product manager nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support four projects. once you subscribe to a nanodegree program, you will have access to the content and services for the length of time specified by your subscription. we estimate that students can complete the program in four (4) months, working 10 hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes. how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the length of time specified in the payment card above. if you do not graduate within that time period, you will continue learning with month to month payments. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies regarding the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. software and hardware - what do i need for this program? what software and versions will i need in this program? you will need to use google slides or microsoft powerpoint, and google docs or microsoft word, as well as access to the internet and a 64-bit computer. you will also need a computer to record a video pitch, and use figma and theplot.io, for which the requirements are: minimum browser requirements are: chrome 49+ firefox 57+ safari 10.1+ (apple - macos) edge 14+ (windows) minimum operating system (os) requirements are: windows 8.1 or later apple macos 10.10 (yosemite) and later any linux os that supports the browsers mentioned above any chrome os that supports the browsers mentioned aboveshow less featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences