statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr internet› online video & entertainment online videos in china - statistics & facts overview key figures statistics published by lai lin thomala, mar 5, 2020 in a country like china where more than 800 million people use the internet, three in every four internet users consumed online video content. in fact, the number of people regularly consuming online video content grew at a faster pace than that of the overall internet users in the country. while global market leaders like youtube and vimeo are blocked from the great chinese firewall, the online video arena in the world's most populous country is vibrant with domestic players. one of the names that repeatedly pops up as “china’s youtube” is the video-sharing site, tudou. founded in shanghai in 2005, the so-called "china's youtube" gained traction very quickly in the chinese online community. tudou is known to be the pioneer of video hosting services in china and quickly gained traction in the country's vast online community. in 2012, it was announced that the competing video streaming giant- youku, had reached an agreement to acquire tudou under the new name youku tudou and was acquired by the alibaba group just three years later. as of 2019, youku, tencent video, and iqiyi accounted for over 80 percent of the market share. instead of focusing on the advertising business, the well-established platforms in china often adopt a hybrid paid and ad revenue model. this makes it necessary to pump more investment in producing and acquiring high quality, original content. this cut-throat market competition has led to many game-changing deals by the video streaming platforms. in 2018, youku secured exclusive rights to stream the fifa world cup in china, along with various deals with nbc universal studios and sony pictures tv to bring hollywood classics to the eager chinese viewers. meanwhile, iqiyi has successfully attracted new paid subscriptions with its top-charting premium drama, "story of yanxi palace". not lagging behind the competitors, tencent has also invested millions of dollars in gaming and e-sports streaming platforms, like huya and bilibili. recently, short video platforms like douyin, kuaishou, and xigua have successfully claimed their own territories in china. when it comes to online paid videos, premium and original content will continue to be the driving forces for subscriber growth. industry experts expected that advanced technology such as 5g and ai would play a bigger role in user experience and personalized recommendations, which will undoubtedly boost up ad revenue. this text provides general information. statista assumes no liability for the information given being complete or correct. due to varying update cycles, statistics can display more up-to-date data than referenced in the text. read more interesting statistics in the following 4 chapters, you will quickly find the 25 most important statistics relating to "online videos in china". statistics on the topic key figures market players online video advertising short video users number of online video users in china 612 million penetration rate of online video use in china 73.9% estimated revenue of china's online video industry in 2020 156.6bn yuan key figures number of online video users in china 2008-2018 penetration rate of online video use in china 2008-2018 annual revenue of the online video market in china 2009-2022 revenue distribution in the online video industry in china up to 2021 revenue from short videos online in china 2016-2021 annual revenue of the paid online video market in china 2012-2019 show all statistics (6) market players china: leading online video platforms by unique visits 2019 tencent: segment revenue distribution 2014-2018 chinese online video platform iqiyi's annual revenue 2015-2018 alibaba: annual segment revenue 2017-2019 revenue of sohu 2010-2018 original and acquired online video content breakdown in china 2019, by platform quarterly ad revenue of top online video providers in china q1 2018-q2 2019 show all statistics (7) online video advertising advertising revenue of the online video industry in china 2011-2020 online video advertising revenue growth in china 2014-2020 revenue structure of online video advertising in china up to 2017 short-form video advertising revenue in china 2016-2021 short video advertisement market growth rate in china 2017-2021 short video advertisement share in total advertising revenue in china 2018-2021 show all statistics (6) short video users gender distribution of short video app users in china 2019 distribution of short video users in china 2019, by age group city tier distribution of short video app users in china 2019 distribution of short video app users in china 2019, by education level distribution of short video app users in china 2019, by online spending power popular online streaming content types in china q3 2019 show all statistics (6) subscribe dossier on the topic all important statistics are prepared by our experts – available for direct download as ppt & pdf! go to report top seller important key figures the most important key figures provide you with a compact summary of the topic of "online videos in china" and take you straight to the corresponding statistics. online video platforms the leading online video platform in china in terms of muvs iqiyi detailed statistics china: leading online video platforms by unique visits 2019 monthly retention rate of alibaba's youku in china 60.7% detailed statistics monthly retention rate of youku video platform in china 2019 monthly retention rate of tencent video in china 58% detailed statistics monthly retention rate of tencent video in china 2019 monthly retention rate of sohu video in china 56% detailed statistics monthly retention rate of sohu video in china 2019 monthly retention rate of iqiyi in china 47.4% detailed statistics monthly retention rate of iqiyi in china 2019 show more factshide short video market estimated revenue of short video market in china in 2021 211bn yuan detailed statistics revenue from short videos online in china 2016-2021 estimated short video ad revenue in china in 2021 105bn yuan detailed statistics short-form video advertising revenue in china 2016-2021 estimated share of short video advertisement in the total ad spending in china in 2021 10.8% detailed statistics short video advertisement share in total advertising revenue in china 2018-2021 short video users number of short video users in china 353 million detailed statistics number of short video users in china 2013-2018 growth rate of short video users in china 46% detailed statistics growth rate of short video users in china 2016-2018 largest age group of short video users in china 31-35 years old detailed statistics distribution of short video users in china 2019, by age group more interesting topics related topics social networks in china search engines in china mobile apps in china online dating and matchmaking in china film industry in china other studies on the topic advertising in china media in china gaming in china digital music industry in china any more questions? any more questions? get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! do you still have questions? feel free to contact us anytime using our contact form or visit our faq page. contact kyle gordon group director get in contact now yes, let me download! ...and make my research life easier. we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr