programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started new! nanodegree program become a ux designer design impactful user experiences for products in today’s digital world. build a portfolio that showcases your ability to transform user research to high-fidelity interactive designs. download syllabusenroll now estimated time 3 months at 10 hours/week enroll by march 27, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites no experience required what you will learn download syllabus syllabus ux designer you’ll learn how to create a digital user experience that is ready to be handed off for development. you’ll start by building familiarity and fluency with design research fundamentals to identify the user and the solutions they need. you’ll then synthesize your research, and use design sprints to take an idea from concept to low-fidelity prototype. finally, you’ll learn how to turn your low-fidelity prototype into a high-fidelity design, and improve its performance based on data. along the way, you’ll complete projects that can be incorporated into a ux portfolio at the end of the program in order to showcase your capabilities to future employers. create impactful/engaging user experiences for the digital world. be equipped to design for web-based platforms, digital interfaces, as well as mobile and web applications. hide details estimated 3 months to complete prerequisite knowledge no prior experience required. ux fundamentals & design research product design starts with understanding the needs of users, which is gathered through comprehensive research. learn the core principles of human-centered design and how to appropriately scope a design problem. understand how to empathize with users when performing user research, including how to conduct in-depth interviews and create quantitative surveys, and use research data to uncover opportunities. you’ll then apply psychology to design sketches, keeping the end-user in mind.formulate a research report concept to low-fidelity prototyping the best products have gone through rounds of iteration based on user research and feedback. learn the process of a design sprint, and how to translate findings from research into a prototype that can be tested with users. understand how to foster team collaboration and use divergent and convergent thinking to rapidly create testable prototypes. apply user interface principles in the design of a clickable prototype, and conduct a usability test to gain valuable feedback from users that can be used in design iterations. develop a validated low-fidelity prototype high-fidelity prototyping to post-launch analysis once products have been tested for its effectiveness, they need to be enhanced for engagement. learn advanced user interface principles to build interactive designs that are ready to be handed off to engineering for feedback. understand how to solicit and integrate feedback from engineering to enhance the design before it is ready for development. assess the engagement of the product through remote usability testing and other experimentation methods. finally, you’ll learn how to improve design and user experiences based on engagement data in order to increase key performance indicators.create and improve a high-fidelity design capstone - ux portfolio design ux designers demonstrate their skills by showcasing their designs and processes in a portfolio. understand what should and shouldn’t be included in a portfolio, as well as the key components that appeal to target audiences. learn how to organize previous work and communicate it online, keeping the audience and your career objectives in mind. apply storytelling and branding frameworks to create a personal profile that conveys a unique value proposition. you’ll also learn best practices for maintaining and updating a ux portfolio. build a ux portfolio case study ux designer is one of linkedin's top five most promising jobs - roles with high salaries, a large number of job openings, year-over-year growth, and that are likely to lead to a promotion. all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. program offeringsfull list of offerings included: enrollment includes: class content real-world projects icon-checkmarkcheckmark project reviews icon-checkmarkcheckmark project feedback from experienced reviewers icon-checkmarkcheckmark student services technical mentor support new icon-checkmarkcheckmark student community improved icon-checkmarkcheckmark career services personal career coaching new icon-checkmarkcheckmark interview preparations icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume services icon-checkmarkcheckmark github review icon-checkmarkcheckmark linkedin profile review icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume shared with 95+ employers new icon-checkmarkcheckmark succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best shuang liu ux designer, google shuang has enjoyed working in ux design across a variety of domains at google, from youtube, to technical cloud platforms. she is particularly interested in bringing a human touch to products. she received her master's in human computer interaction from the university of michigan. gabriel ruttner co-founder & cto, feather docs gabe leads product, ux, and engineering for machine learning products at early-stage startups. his last company built ux research tools for designers at fortune 500 companies. he holds degrees from cornell university and stony brook university. michael dedrick ux designer, google michael is a ux designer for google after leading design at a blockchain startup and working at a partnership with apple and ibm. he is committed to connecting with clients and users—and bringing their vision to life. he has a design background from sheridan, toronto film school, and ocad university. melissa hui founder, context leap melissa is the founder of context leap, an sf-based organizational and leadership transformation agency. with over a decade as a design and innovation strategist in the technology industry, she is dedicated to evolving the role of design in creating scalable and thoughtful human-centered experiences. related nanodegree programs ios developer nanodegree program learn the basics of ios app development using swift and xcode intermediate front end web developer nanodegree program build high quality websites and dynamic applications for the web intermediate program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? as products become more digital, there is an increasing need for people who can design the digital interaction with web-based platforms, digital interfaces, and mobile and desktop applications. this program is intended for students who would like to have a significant impact on the overall user experience of digital products, from defining user interactions with a product to designing its look & feel, without needing the technical expertise of an engineer or product manager. you’ll learn how to conduct user research, apply design psychology, and create user interface layouts. you’ll translate research into low-fidelity prototypes, and turn those into high-fidelity designs that are ready for engineering implementation. along the way, you’ll build a ux portfolio-ready case study that will demonstrate your design capabilities. what jobs will this program prepare me for? this program is designed to prepare individuals to work as design or ux researchers, ux designers, product designers, design leads, interaction designers, visual designers, and more within teams and organizations focused on launching digital products, including web-based platforms, digital interfaces, and mobile and desktop applications. there are also roles such as ux writers, who help create human-centric communications, and ux or design strategy roles, which focus on using design as a strategic lens to solve overarching challenges. how do i know if this program is right for me? this program is intended for anyone who wants to gain fluency and understanding of digital product design. if you want to learn how to shape user experiences of software products and how to prepare design assets within a cross-functional team, this program is for you. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? no. this nanodegree program accepts all applicants regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? no prior experience with ux design is required. you will need to be comfortable with basic computer skills, such as managing files, using third-party online programs, and navigating the internet through an online browser. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the ux designer nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support three projects, and one capstone. we estimate that students can complete the program in three months, working ten hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes. how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the length of time specified in the payment card above. if you do not graduate within that time period, you will continue learning with month to month payments. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies regarding the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. software & hardware what software and versions will i need in this program? for this program, you will need a computer with a broadband internet connection, capable of installing various open-source design tools. note: most consumer computers on the market today meet these requirements. you will need administrative access to be able to install software on your computer. this program uses web-based platforms including google suite (slides, gallery, & docs), figma, miro, mobbin, zeplin, webaim, whimsical, lookback, and unbounce. you will have the option to use keynote, powerpoint, or google slides for your presentations. you will need to be able to communicate fluently and professionally in written and spoken english.show less become a ux designer download syllabus enroll now featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences