× canada edition newslatest newshousinggood newsexplainersworldmeanwhile in canadaalbertabritish columbia coronavirus politicsjustin trudeauandrew scheerjagmeet singhelizabeth mayontario politicsdoug fordus politics'follow-up' podcast businessreal estateworkrecallsbasic incomeprecariously taxedunfriendly skiesmoney hacks lifelifestyle newshealthrelationshipshow-toidentitystylefood & drinkhomeborn and raised'navigating'royalsgift guidesthis could helptravel parentsnews you can useself-carehow-toreal talk'life after birth'dad lifeparents voicesroyal kids perspectivespersonalopinionhow to pitch to huffposthometownvoices video podcasts'follow-up''born & raised'news for google home/alexa follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost food & drink. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. × newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideocanada edition food & drink online grocery delivery is overbooked. here's what companies are doing about it. trying to get food delivered during coronavirus, but can't snag a time slot? companies like amazon fresh and instacart appear to be taking measures to fix that. by jenna amatulli 03/26/2020 05:45am edt | updated march 26, 2020 icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. in the coronavirus era, buying your groceries via an online delivery service feels a lot like the lottery meets “the hunger games” meets utter stress. wow @freshdirect i refreshed the window as soon as new time slots for deliveries opened and they are already all booked :( have been trying to get a slot for 3 days now. any tips on how to get my order placed? — matthew michael (@keepitfierce) march 24, 2020 getting an instacart delivery slot is like winning the goddamn lottery. — angelsil @ 🏠 (@angelsil_tpa) march 23, 2020 finally locked in an amazon fresh delivery slot after several days of trying, and i seriously feel like i need a cigarette right now. — zaki hasan (@zakiscorner) march 25, 2020 so what are companies doing about it? well, the short answer is that it’s a work in progress, but amazon fresh, walmart grocery and others are trying to streamline the process. here’s the longer answer: amazon fresh the brand told huffpost that it has seen an increase in people shopping online and is “working with suppliers and distributors to ensure we’re getting products customers need.” “we are also hiring over 100,000 positions across the us, including for grocery delivery, enabling us to add delivery windows and get grocery orders to customers quickly,” an amazon fresh spokesperson said via email. instacart the largest grocery delivery network in north america announced earlier this week that it would be bringing on “an additional 300,000 full-service shoppers across north america over the next 3 months to meet the increasing customer demand for online grocery delivery and pickup in the u.s. and canada.” a spokesperson said that in the last few weeks, instacart has “seen the highest customer demand in company history” and is focusing on states with the most customer demand, including california, new york, texas, florida, illinois, pennsylvania, virginia, new jersey, georgia, and ohio. walmart grocery the brand said it has seen an increase in pickup and delivery orders, as well as more customers at walmart stores. the company acknowledged that while it has had to “cancel a number of orders due to item availability,” it’s “offering time slots to customers for as soon as the same day and up to one day in advance, rather than time frames further out.” “this is a shorter window than we typically offer, but it will allow us to better serve our customers during this busy time,” said charles crowson, senior manager of corporate communications, who added that the company plans to hire 150,000 new associates in stores, clubs, distribution centers and fulfillment centers. fresh direct the brand said in a tweet over the weekend that it is working “tirelessly” to open more slots for users. on tuesday, fresh direct announced it would be part of a program that delivers 2,000 boxes of food a day, monday through friday, to families in need across the five boroughs of new york city. postmates delivering both food and non-food items, postmates says it has recently launched non-contact deliveries and is “offering reduced delivery fees—often during peak lunch hours—making on-demand delivery more accessible during this challenging time.” related... 3 ways to support restaurants without putting delivery workers at risk how to disinfect food and your kitchen for coronavirus now you don't even have to touch someone for your takeout or food delivery suggest a correction more:shoppingopinary pollgrocery shoppingamazonfreshinstacart jenna amatulli reporter, huffpost icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police videos getting coronavirus cabin fever? try dancing. diy face masks won’t lower covid-19 risk. what should you use them for? british pm boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 here’s the latest on the coronavirus’ impact around the world how to apply for cerb, canada’s new $2,000 emergency response benefit newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideo advertise with usfaquser agreement (updated)privacy (updated)comment policyabout usabout our ads part of huffpost food & drink. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved.