skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: online abuse are men abused online more than women? posted on aug 28, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel (tw: this post discusses online abuse and includes screencaps and discussion of graphic, misogynistic, homophobic, and generally just horrifying language.) i’ve been studying online harassment for a while now. i find myself a case study more often than i would like, and when i present on the topic, my slides are often screencaps of abusive… keep reading i tweeted about the joker being a woman who was tired of this shit and it now feels auto-biographical posted on jun 4, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, random musings recently my twitter replies were doused in gasoline and set alight. it’s been both somewhat alarming and interesting. (uncontrollable, raging fires usually are.) i wrote this tweet in the lobby of a hotel in downtown seattle after i’d had a day. an exhausting, emotionally draining day filled with some of the more intense stuff you… keep reading when online threats become real. (it’s not just trolling.) posted on mar 15, 2019 posted in: personal essay (note: this piece does not link to any of the shooter’s video or manifesto directly, but some of the news sites that i link to may do so. a few include screencaps of his 4-chan forum discussions. please click with caution.) 49 people died yesterday, gunned down in two mosques in coordinated attacks across new… keep reading when online harassment shows up on your doorstep posted on nov 28, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay the letter arrived at my house at the end of october in a plain white envelope with no return address. my name – or some approximation of it (“depruiter” it reads, because, in the words of my beloved, “the person who addressed it is an idiot”) has been printed out on a label and affixed… keep reading what happened when i tried talking to twitter abusers posted on jul 30, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay trigger warning: please note that this is a blog post about online abuse, and includes screen caps of tweets sent to me. graphic threats and abusive, hateful language toward women appear therein. a few weeks ago, i gave a keynote talk at world domination summit in portland. the thesis: while we regard online misogyny and abuse… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.