programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started nanodegree program become a data analyst use python, sql, and statistics to uncover insights, communicate critical findings, and create data-driven solutions download syllabusenroll now estimated time 4 months at 10 hrs/week enroll by march 27, 2020 get access to classroom immediately on enrollment prerequisites python & sql see prerequisites in detail in collaboration with what you will learn download syllabus data analysis with python and sql advance your programming skills and refine your ability to work with messy, complex datasets. you’ll learn to manipulate and prepare data for analysis, and create visualizations for data exploration. finally, you’ll learn to use your data skills to tell a story with data. manipulate and prepare data for analysis, create visualizations. hide details 4 months to complete prerequisite knowledge you should have experience working with python (specifically numpy and pandas) and sql.see detailed requirements. introduction to data analysis learn the data analysis process of wrangling, exploring, analyzing, and communicating data. work with data in python, using libraries like numpy and pandas.explore weather trendsinvestigate a dataset practical statistics learn how to apply inferential statistics and probability to real-world scenarios, such as analyzing a/b tests and building supervised learning models.analyze experiment results data wrangling learn the data wrangling process of gathering, assessing, and cleaning data. learn to use python to wrangle data programmatically and prepare it for analysis.wrangle and analyze data data visualization with python learn to apply visualization principles to the data analysis process. explore data visually at multiple levels to find insights and create a compelling story.communicate data findings need to prepare? if you are new to programming, try the programming for data science nanodegree program 59% of companies plan to increase positions requiring data analysis skills. all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. program offeringsfull list of offerings included: enrollment includes: class content content co-created with kaggle icon-checkmarkcheckmark real-world projects icon-checkmarkcheckmark project reviews icon-checkmarkcheckmark project feedback from experienced reviewers icon-checkmarkcheckmark student services technical mentor support new icon-checkmarkcheckmark student community improved icon-checkmarkcheckmark career services personal career coaching new icon-checkmarkcheckmark interview preparations icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume services icon-checkmarkcheckmark github review icon-checkmarkcheckmark linkedin profile review icon-checkmarkcheckmark resume shared with 95+ employers new icon-checkmarkcheckmark succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! experienced project reviewers technical mentor support personal career coach get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve succeed with personalized services we provide services customized for your needs at every step of your learning journey to ensure your success! project reviewers technical mentor support career coaching get personalized feedback on your projects reviews by the numbers 2000+ project reviewers 1.8m projects reviewed 4.85/5 reviewer ratings 3 hour avg project review turnaround time reviewer services personalized feedback unlimited submissions and feedback loops practical tips and industry best practices additional suggested resources to improve learn with the best josh bernhard data scientist at nerd wallet josh has been sharing his passion for data for nearly a decade at all levels of university, and as lead data science instructor at galvanize. he's used data science for work ranging from cancer research to process automation. sebastian thrun instructor as the founder and president of udacity, sebastian’s mission is to democratize education. he is also the founder of google x, where he led projects including the self-driving car, google glass, and more. derek steer ceo at mode derek is the ceo of mode analytics. he developed an analytical foundation at facebook and yammer and is passionate about sharing it with future analysts. he authored sql school and is a mentor at insight data science. juno lee curriculum lead at udacity juno is the curriculum lead for the school of data science. she has been sharing her passion for data and teaching, building several courses at udacity. as a data scientist, she built recommendation engines, computer vision and nlp models, and tools to analyze user behavior. mike yi data analyst instructor mike is a content developer with a multidisciplinary academic background, including math, statistics, physics, and psychology. previously, he worked on udacity's data analyst nanodegree program as a support lead. david venturi data analyst instructor formerly a chemical engineer and data analyst, david created a personalized data science master's program using online resources. he has studied hundreds of online courses and is excited to bring the best to udacity students. sam nelson product lead sam is the product lead for udacity’s data analyst, business analyst, and data foundations programs. he’s worked as an analytics consultant on projects in several industries, and is passionate about helping others improve their data skills. student reviews 4.5 (1870) nicholas c. folks, it's hard to say enough good things about this degree program. the instruction is excellent and the topic curation is very solid. it's modern, clean looking, with high quality sound and visuals. and the flexible structure is so appreciated - the problem sets and quizes are there for me as useful structure and interactivity. but i'm not shackled by them - i can choose to blast through a lesson's lectures when i would rather apply the concepts on my own terms. it's great to see the udacity staff is actively improving the offering - after i started the degree, the staff switched out one of the clumsier modules for a shiny new numpy/pandas primer (p2) - don't miss it. i've found that bringing in other sources (for me: introduction to statistical learning, various books from o'reilly) is required for truly learning this stuff. and if you're like me, coming in with a minimal programming background, be prepared to debug code constantly with dozens of daily visits to stack overflow and python/r docs. if anything, nine months part time is an aggressive timeline, especially if you're complementing each topic with other learning sources and trying to apply them in real time to your own field. get ready to tap your inner love of learning, because you'll need some serious persistence to tackle this nanodegree decisively. good luck! bruno a. so far, the program is going really well, beyond my expectations! :d i'm really learning a lot about data science, i feel a lot more confident about working with python (pandas/numpy) and r, for instance. besides that, many of the concepts related to the whole data science process - data wranglig, eda, data visualization, machine learning, statistics - and the process itself started to make sense! the nanodegree provided me knowledge i'm currently using in my job, and i could venture to say that if wasn't for this course, i wouldn't be able to be working in this position today. furthermore, maybe that is not entirely related with the nanodegree, but udacity enabled me meeting a lot of interesting people that are here willing to share knowledge and give support. the mentorship program is awesome! christian burkhart (my mentor) really made a change to this experience! i'm learning a lot, and that is great! i've already stretched out a lot, but i would like to point out that this work that udacity is doing of trying to bring its students closer to the market is amazing, i already improved in a way that i changed my behaviour and i took all of the advices related to professional growth and i feel that it is already causing a huge impact in my career path. keep up with the hard work! #udacious sagarnil d. i simply am short of words to praise you guys. you have opened a whole new world to me which i didn't see before. i feel so motivated every passing day and cannot wait to start applying my newly learnt skills in a related field. this course made me realize that life is not about getting saturated with what you know the best, but it's about getting out of your comfort zone and start learning new things everyday until you die. i have got a whole life's worth of motivation apart from the intense skill set you guys gave me and i promise to learn something new every day. just one request, i know the day when you guys spread all over the world and convey this immensely effective teaching style everywhere is not so far away, but please get well established in india first. i get calls for interviews so often and i get so disappointed when i say the name udacity and the person i am talking to says he/she has never heard of it! please please make sure the next person i talk to has not only heard of your name but also your name got etched all over that person! you really deserve that udacity! love you! planning to take your machine learning engineering course very soon! i am sure that will be as awesome as this! daniel b. overall, i enjoyed the nanodegree experience. here are some pros: 1. the project reviewers were fast, positive, and encouraging. 2. i learned unexpected things. for example, i had no previous experience with d3 and found it to be quite fun. 3. the projects forced me to get coding and helped me build confidence. i have to mention a few cons too. 1. the projects rarely meet specifications on the first attempt. even after closely following the rubrics, i usually had to change some small things to have my project meet specifications. it often felt nit-picky. 2. the quality of the courses varies. some were a delight to go through while others were more of a slog. i suppose this could apply to any educational experience though. 3. i was suprised that 'big data' was not much of a topic in any courses. i have one recommendation for incoming students: know how you will share your projects before starting them. i was not familiar with how to share projects on github or kaggle, so i did not organize my projects in a way that makes it easy to share on those platforms. charles t. i was so glad the nanodegree challenged me! this is a wonderful program that has given me new skills that are applicable in the marketplace. i can use the individual projects in my resume. what better way to illustrate to my prospective employer what skills i have acquired. not showing them i can make a's on exams but rather showing them i can actually perform the activities/analysis they are searching for candidates to do. i must say this about the nanodegree - be ready to find the answers on your own, as there is nobody around to just give you the answers. there are forums from the past that provide some help, but essentially you're on your own - which is what happens in the real world. you'll learn how to find the answers (or something close that can be adapted to your particular situation) on the internet. also the mentors udacity provides are very encouraging and provide moral support - but you won't be able to lean on them for answers either. like i said it's a challenge - but i know you wouldn't have it any other way! felix s. it really is fantastic. when i originally chose my path just after high school i didn't realise i was going into a declining field and that the digital revolution was about to change things so much. for a while programming and ticking the necessary boxes to break into this field was very much inside knowledge and udacity has done a great job of making the technical as well as practical steps available to those who might not have been programming since they were eight. also, the mix of videos and hands on as well as the forum make you feel part of something. the webcasts too. the content is fantastic, there are many curated links. i use the forum a lot, have not yet used the one-on-one appointments but it is very nice to know they are there in case the need truly arises one day. in the past i had some brief learning experiences with other online course providers but can clearly say that this course is definitely a step above anything i tried before. next program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? the data analyst nanodegree program offers you the opportunity to master data skills that are in demand by top employers, such as python and statistics. by the end of the program you will have created a portfolio of work demonstrating your ability to solve complex data problems. after graduating, you will have the skills needed to join a large corporation or a small firm, or even go independent as a freelance data analyst. you’ll have personalized support as you master in-demand skills that qualify you for high-value jobs in the data field. you’ll also receive career support via profile and portfolios reviews to help make sure you’re ready to establish a successful career in data, and land a job you love. what jobs will this program prepare me for? graduates will be well prepared to fill a wide array of data related roles. these include: data analyst, analytics consultant, product manager, and management consultant. how do i know if this program is right for me? if you're someone who wants to make data driven decisions or work with various types of data to conduct analyses, or is interested in becoming an data analyst, this program is ideal for you, because you'll learn applied statistics, data wrangling with python, and data visualization with matplotlib, which will enable you to work with any data set and find and showcase meaningful insights. this will qualify you for roles such as a data analyst and analytics consultant. you'll need to have some experience with python and pandas to succeed in this program, and if that's you, and you're ready to apply those skills to real world projects, then we encourage you to enroll today. what is the school of data science, and how do i know which program to choose? udacity’s school of data consists of several different nanodegree programs, each of which offers the opportunity to build data skills, and advance your career. these programs are organized around three main career roles: business analyst, data analyst, and data scientist. the school of data currently offers two clearly-defined career paths. these paths are differentiated by whether they focus on developing programming skills or not. whether you are just getting started in data, are looking to augment your existing skill set with in-demand data skills, or intend to pursue advanced studies and career roles, udacity’s school of data has the right path for you! visit how to choose the data science program that’s right for you to learn more. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? no. this nanodegree program accepts all applicants regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? in order to succeed in this program, we recommend having the following experience: python programming, including common data analysis libraries (e.g., numpy and pandas) sql programming you should also be able to read and write in english. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the data analyst nanodegree program is comprised of content and curriculum to support five (5) projects. we estimate that students can complete the program in four (4) months working 10 hours per week. each project will be reviewed by the udacity reviewer network and platform. feedback will be provided and if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to resubmit the project until it passes how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the length of time specified in the payment card above. if you do not graduate within that time period, you will continue learning with month to month payments. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies regarding the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity program faqs for policies on enrollment in our programs. i have graduated from the data analyst program and i want to keep learning. where should i go from here? check out our data scientist nanodegree program to take the concepts you have learned in data analyst and build upon them using machine learning and neural networks. learning these advanced concepts will not only enhance your knowledge it will make you a more attractive candidate to be hired as an analyst or data scientist. what is the school of data science, and how do i know which program to choose? udacity’s school of data consists of several different nanodegree programs, each of which offers the opportunity to build data skills, and advance your career. these programs are organized around career roles like business analyst, data analyst, data scientist, and data engineer. the school of data currently offers three clearly-defined career paths in business analytics, data science, and data engineering. whether you are just getting started in data, are looking to augment your existing skill set with in-demand data skills, or intend to pursue advanced studies and career roles, udacity’s school of data has the right path for you! visit how to choose the data science program that’s right for you to learn more. software and hardware - what do i need for this program? what software and versions will i need in this program? for this nanodegree program you will need access to the internet, and a 64 bit computer. additional software such as python and its common data analysis libraries (e.g., numpy and pandas) will be required, but the program will guide students on how to download once the course has begun.show less data analyst download syllabus enroll now featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences