squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice online stores schedule appointments squarespace scheduling the easiest way to manage appointments. already have a squarespace website? add scheduling to your website and take the hassle out of online scheduling. new to squarespace?create a website→→ working 24/7 to fill your schedule. with squarespace scheduling, clients can quickly view your availability and book their own appointments or classes. they can even pay online and reschedule with a click. never ask “what time works for you?” again. simplicity meets power tools that take the hassle out of online scheduling, booking, and payments. promote your availability share your available hours and let clients book and reschedule appointments. stay organized get notified when a new appointment is booked and sync upcoming appointments with the calendar you already use, like google, outlook, icloud, or office 365. save time automate and customize appointment confirmations, reminders, follow-ups, and intake forms to keep clients prompt and client information organized. promote your availability share your available hours and let clients book and reschedule appointments. stay organized get notified when a new appointment is booked and sync upcoming appointments with the calendar you already use, like google, outlook, icloud, or office 365. save time automate and customize appointment confirmations, reminders, follow-ups, and intake forms to keep clients prompt and client information organized. tools for every business meet your clients’ needs with an advanced suite of customizable options for scheduling appointments. calendar coordination automatically update the calendars you already use, like google, outlook, icloud, or office 365. streamlined payments integrate with a payment processor to easily charge clients before or after appointments. video conferencing no matter where your clients are, speak face-to-face with gotomeeting, zoom, and joinme integrations. customized communication automatically send branded and customized confirmations, reminders, and follow-ups. style everything to match the existing look and feel of your business. subscriptions, gift cards, and packages upsell your clients by adding more ways to book. (available on select plans.) custom intake forms learn about new clients or familiarize yourself with returning clients with custom intake forms. “streamlining our consultation and appointment process enhances the customer experience and reduces staff workload so they can spend more time with the customer.” jen robin, founder lifeinjeneral.com apps integrate squarespace scheduling with third-party apps. scheduling pricing plans plans that fit the scheduling needs of solo entrepreneurs, large teams, and businesses with multiple locations. prices do not include applicable taxes. an active squarespace website is required to purchase scheduling. emerging entrepreneur / per month billed annually includes 1 calendar for each team member, employee, or location calendar synching custom payment settings and card vaulting automatic reminder emails show more features growing business / per month billed annually includes 2-6 calendars for each team member, employee, or location calendar synching custom payment settings and card vaulting automatic reminder emails sms/text reminders packages, gift certificates, memberships, or subscription show more features powerhouse player / per month billed annually includes 7-36 calendars for each team member, employee, or location calendar synching custom payment settings and card vaulting automatic reminder emails sms/text reminders packages, gift certificates, memberships, or subscription multiple time zones for staff/locations custom api & css hipaa (baa) show more features emerging entrepreneur per month billed annually growing business per month billed annually powerhouse player per month billed annually calendar for each team member, employee, or location 1 2-6 7-36 calendar syncing custom payment settings and card vaulting automatic reminder emails sms/text reminders packages, gift certificates, memberships, or subscriptions multiple time zones for staff/locations custom api & css hipaa (baa) frequently asked questions do i need a squarespace website to use scheduling? squarespace scheduling is a paid product—an active squarespace website is required to purchase scheduling. all squarespace websites have access to a free 14-day scheduling trial. is this the same as acuity scheduling? scheduling is an acuity product designed for squarespace, although it has the same features as acuity scheduling. using scheduling through squarespace is the best solution if you already have a squarespace site and want to use all the features of acuity scheduling within your site. to use acuity scheduling without using squarespace, sign up for an acuity account. if i already have acuity scheduling can i use squarespace scheduling? if you already have an acuity account, you should keep using the appointment scheduling block with your existing acuity direct scheduling link. it’s not currently possible to migrate your acuity account to a scheduling account, or to merge an acuity account with a scheduling account. how many calendars do i need? each calendar is a set of times that clients can book with you. some businesses have one set of hours and can use one calendar. others need calendars for each employee, location, or another resource. if you’re not sure how many you need, contact us and we’ll help you find a solution. can i collect payment through scheduling? yes. you can use stripe, square, or paypal to accept payments from clients. clients can pay when they book online, or you can enter payments from the admin end. these payment processors are separate from any other payment processors you use in squarespace. to learn more and get started, visit connecting payment processors to scheduling. is scheduling available in languages other than english? yes. you can translate your client scheduling page (and embedded schedulers) into german, french, spanish, or brazilian portuguese using preset translations. click client scheduling page, then click customize appearance to get started. in the same settings, you can use the change scheduling wording tool to translate your client scheduling page manually. award-winning customer support think of squarespace as your very own it department. alongside unlimited hosting and enterprise-grade infrastructure, we offer dedicated 24/7 support. visit help center contact support webinars squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter