find a course sign up coursera blog degrees for business for educators product news stories product news coursera product news get the latest news on product launches, updates, and innovations from coursera latest updates: product news featured crush your learning goals with coursera in the car and amazon alexa october 28, 2019 by alex sanchez, product management, mobile experiences and emerging technology at coursera no two learner journeys are the same. we’ve… product update 7 introducing coursera plus: a subscription plan for unlimited learning february 12, 2020 by anubhav chopra, lead product manager, consumer everyone comes to coursera with a unique learning goal. some learners want just a single course on a specific topic, while others, like sagi from jakarta, take well over 20 courses in a variety of domains. now, through coursera plus, a new subscription program that we're piloting, learners… product update 12 new for partners: redesigned course authoring and admin tools december 17, 2019 by jennifer wolochow, senior product manager at coursera coursera is committed to helping our 200+ university and industry partners create transformational learning experiences. authoring and managing courses is a vital aspect to our platform, and the tools to do so are used by thousands of partners on a weekly, if not daily, basis. that’s why… product update 8 ready for retention: presenting a unified note-taking experience september 9, 2019 ken sun, director of product management, coursera what did you learn in your last course on coursera? what were the important concepts presented each week? could you draw one graph the instructor used? if recalling these facts feels tough, you’re not alone. humans tend to lose 40% of information within the first 24 hours after… coursera updates 6 by ken sun, sr. director of product management updates to your learning experience on coursera march 19, 2019 at coursera, we’re always working on making your learning experience more rewarding than ever. our latest updates are designed to provide you with tools that help you make progress on-the-go and stay on track with your courses. new updates on the web notes & highlighting with this feature, you can highlight and save important parts… product update 3 join coursera’s new community december 10, 2018 do you want to connect with people from around the world who are excited about learning and passionate about the same subject as you? do you wish you could meet people who are a few steps ahead of you in your chosen career and ask for their advice? do you need course recommendations or would… coursera news 12 available exclusively on coursera coursera and aws join forces on new digital training course november 15, 2018 cloud represents an enormous opportunity for organizations of every size, in almost every industry, providing them with the speed, flexibility, and scalability they need to remain competitive. with more than 83% of enterprise workloads expected to be on the cloud by 2020, companies are expanding the scope of traditional it roles by aggressively hiring and… aws 10 coursera provides universal access to the world’s best education, partnering with top universities and organizations to offer courses online. © 2020 coursera inc. all rights reserved. coursera about leadership careers catalog professional certificates mastertrack™ certificates degrees for enterprise for campus for government community learners partners developers beta testers translators tech blog connect blog facebook linkedin twitter instagram more terms privacy help accessibility press contact directory affiliates