please note that our site uses cookies to provide basic functionality and feedback. by continuing to use our site you accept this use. more information is provided in our privacy page. don't show me this again. open book publishers my basket (0) login / register currency british pounds us dollar euro canadian dollars australian dollars browse by categories anthropology, archaeology and religion art and music cinema and photography classics textbooks digital humanities economics, politics and sociology education environmental studies health history and biography history of the book history of science international relations law literature, language and culture mathematics media studies and journalism open field guides philosophy sciences theatre women and gender studies textbooks all books forthcoming titles catalogue submissions more on obp about our vision information for new authors prizewinning books innovative publications what people say about us media room support us sponsor us contact us donate vacancies, training & volunteering faqs partnerships publishing services and partnerships library membership service information ordering distribution and retail obp customise beyond publishing open source software how we collect our readership statistics join our newsletter please fill in your email address below to join our newsletter mailing list. models in microeconomic theory ('she' edition) martin j. osborne and ariel rubinstein models in microeconomic theory covers basic models in current microeconomic theory. the book focuses on the concepts of model and equilibrium. it states models and results precisely, and provides proofs for all results. it uses only elementary mathematics (with almost no calculus), although many of the proofs involve sustained logical arguments. it includes about 150 exercises. more information > non-communicable disease prevention: best buys, wasted buys and contestable buys wanrudee isaranuwatchai, rachel a. archer, yot teerawattananon and anthony j. culyer (eds.) created by an international consortium of experts, this informative and accessible book provides practical guidelines, key learning points, and dynamic, real-world case studies to aid ncd program managers, policy officers and decision-makers in low- and middle-income countries, so that they can assess interventions for the prevention and control of ncds. more information > the darpa model for transformative technologies: perspectives on the u.s. defense advanced research projects agency william boone bonvillian, richard van atta and patrick windham (eds.) this book is a remarkable collection of leading academic research on darpa from a wide range of perspectives, combining to chart an important story from the agency’s founding in the wake of sputnik, to the current attempts to adapt it to use by other federal agencies. informative and insightful, this guide is essential reading for political and policy leaders, as well as researchers and students interested in understanding the success of this age more information > conservation biology in sub-saharan africa john w. wilson and richard b. primack conservation biology in sub-saharan africa comprehensively explores the challenges and potential solutions to key conservation issues in sub-saharan africa.easy to read, this lucid and accessible textbook includes fifteen chapters that cover a full range of conservation topics, including threats to biodiversity, environmental laws, and protected areas management. more information > social media in higher education: case studies, reflections and analysis chris rowell (ed.) this innovative collection brings together academics and those working in professional services to examine these questions and more. the diverse and expert contributors analyse the many ways social media can be used to enhance teaching and learning, research, professional practice, leadership, networking and career development. more information > advanced problems in mathematics: preparing for university stephen siklos advanced problems in mathematics is recommended as preparation for any undergraduate mathematics course. the questions analysed in this book are all based on recent step questions and each question is followed by a comment and a full solution. this book is a must read for any student wishing to apply to scientific subjects at university level and for anybody interested in advanced mathematics. more information > labour and value: rethinking marx’s theory of exploitation ernesto screpanti in this book ernesto screpanti provides a rigorous examination of marx’s theory of exploitation, one of the cornerstones of marxist thought. with precision and clarity, he identifies the holes in traditional readings of marx’s theory before advancing his own original interpretation, drawing on contemporary philosophy and economic theory to provide a refreshingly interdisciplinary exegesis. more information > engaging researchers with data management: the cookbook connie clare, maria cruz, elli papadopoulou, james savage, marta teperek, yan wang, iza witkowska, and joanne yeomans engaging researchers with data management is an invaluable collection of 24 case studies, drawn from institutions across the globe, that demonstrate clearly and practically how to engage the research community with rdm. these case studies together illustrate the variety of innovative strategies research institutions have developed to engage with their researchers about managing research data. more information > essays on paula rego: smile when you think about hell maria manuel lisboa in these powerful and stylishly written essays, maria manuel lisboa dissects the work of paula rego, the portuguese-born artist considered one of the greatest artists of modern times. focusing primarily on rego’s work since the 1980s, lisboa explores the complex relationships between violence and nurturing, power and impotence, politics and the family that run through rego’s art. more information > history of international relations: a non-european perspective erik ringmar existing textbooks on international relations treat history in a cursory fashion and perpetuate a euro-centric perspective. this textbook pioneers a new approach by historicizing the material traditionally taught in international relations courses, and by explicitly focusing on non-european cases, debates and issues. more information > previous pause next latest titles models in microeconomic theory ('he' edition) martin j. osborne and ariel rubinstein models in microeconomic theory ('she' edition) martin j. osborne and ariel rubinstein gallucci's commentary on dürer’s 'four books on human proportion': renaissance proportion theory james hutson the tiberian pronunciation tradition of biblical hebrew, volume 1 geoffrey khan the tiberian pronunciation tradition of biblical hebrew, volume 2 geoffrey khan welcome to open book publishers covid19: during this period we are continuing to publish books that are freely available for everyone to read online, to download and to share. for more information, and freely available resources related to covid19, please click here. 169 titles published over 3 million book interactions library membership: 168 libraries have joined! we are the leading independent open access publisher in the humanities and social sciences in the uk: a not-for-profit social enterprise run by scholars who are committed to making high-quality research freely available to readers around the world. all our books are available to read online and download for free, with no book processing charges (bpcs) for authors. we publish monographs and textbooks in all areas, offering the academic excellence of a traditional press combined with the speed, convenience and accessibility of digital publishing. we also publish bespoke series for universities and research centers and invite libraries to support open access publishing by joining our membership programme. obp is eligible to receive european commission's publication grants for research funded within the fp7 and horizon 2020 frameworks, and our books have been submitted for the uk ref assessment exercise. awards we have been shortlisted for the 2017 and 2014 wise awards, and we are proud to have achieved a 9/10 social impact score in the se100 rankings 2019. we won the 2013 ifla/brill open access award for initiatives in open access monograph publishing and the accelerating science award program (asap) blue ribbon panel of industry experts selected obp to be one of seven high-impact open access organizations, among journal publishers and content providers. partnerships our donors and supporters we are a nonprofit independent publisher with no institutional backing. open book relies on sales and donations to continue publishing high-quality and free to read titles. we gratefully acknowledge the generous support of the polonsky foundation, the thriplow charitable trust, the jessica e. smith and kevin r. brine charitable trust and the progress foundation. tweets by @openbookpublish copyright © 2007-2020 open book publishers. cc by 4.0 international license information policy | web design