sign up for emails donate / join campaigns blog legal policy tech tools events local groups scotland about covid-19 & privacy get involved there are many ways you can help protect digital rights >learn more donate or become a member our work is possible because of paying supporters >donate! open rights group protects the digital rights of people in the uk including privacy and free speech online. we are funded by over 3,000 people like you. press release nhs must explain role of surveillance company palantir has negative reputation—caution and transparency needed reacting to news that surveillance… blog open tech, privacy and covid-19 from enabling strategies to curb the virus to empowering individuals to connect and work from home, digital… report joint letter to pm and sos for international trade on us talks and covid-19 epidemic dear prime minister and secretary of state for international trade, the united states trade representative… blog we need political accountability more than ever- and the ico can lead the way we are living in an unprecedented historical moment. although public health is everyone’s first priority,… more... join today get involved blog open tech, privacy and covid-19 we need political accountability more than ever- and the ico can lead the way in the coronavirus crisis, privacy will be compromised—but our right to know must not be uk publishes trade objectives for deal with the us: what you need to know events march 27: covid-19, privacy & open tech - a discussion with jim killock & javier ruiz org norwich: vpn's, police surveillance & cryptoparty planning org glasgow: crime and policing in the age of mass surveillance postponed - org london: surveilling school children - digital privacy & education press nhs must explain role of surveillance company campaigners welcome the creation of a commissioner to oversee use of biometrics by police in scotland political parties deny true scale of using personal data for campaigning to select committee google move endangers uk privacy search who open rights group exists to preserve and promote your rights in the digital age. we are funded by thousands of people like you. we are based in london and edinburgh, united kingdom. open rights is a non-profit company limited by guarantee, registered in england and wales no. 05581537. phone & address +442070961079 free word centre, 60 farringdon rd, farringdon, london, ec1r 3ga site about / jobs / contact / press / privacy / licence org join / donate / blog / shop / press / events / wiki projects government surveillance / copyright / data protection / open data / web blocking connect © 2005 - 2017, free to reuse except where stated. credits