millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes operating income definition, examples, and how to calculate home » blog » basics » operating income definition, examples, and how to calculate by timothy sykes last updated on february 4, 2020 operating income is just one of the fundamental considerations you can take into account when deciding how to invest in the stock market. you find operating income on an income sheet, which contains lots of details about a business’s current financial health. as i’ve mentioned before, stocks are a reflection of the company behind them. while stock prices don’t always correlate directly with fundamentals like operating income — especially with penny stocks — it’s more common than not. healthy companies inspire confidence in traders. market experts want to buy stocks in businesses that are trending in positive directions. on the other hand, they want out of stocks that reveal negative financial indicators. today, i’ll answer the following … what is operating income? how does operating income compare to net income? how do you calculate operating income? and i’ll explain what these terms have to do with your stock trading strategy… table of contents 1 what is operating income? 1.1 operating income vs. revenue 1.2 operating income vs. net income 1.3 operating income vs. profit 2 operating income examples 3 what is ebit in finance? 3.1 is operating income the same as ebit? 4 how to calculate operating income 4.1 gross income 4.2 operating expenses 4.3 adjusted operating income 4.4 after-tax operating income 5 how does operating income influence stock prices? 6 what are revenue and gross profit? 6.1 what are direct costs? 6.2 what are indirect costs? 7 differences between operating income and non-operating income 7.1 matching market capitalization with operating income 8 how can traders take advantage of operating profit or loss? 8.1 be prepared to benefit from this situation 8.2 trading challenge 9 the bottom line what is operating income? © 2020 millionaire media, llc operating income is the profit a company realizes after paying its operating expenses and covering the cost of goods sold. operating expenses can include things like rent, packaging, shipping fees, depreciation and amortization of fixed assets, and more. have i lost you yet? i hope not. think about how a traditional brick-and-mortar retail store runs. it needs shelving, cash registers, sales staff, storage space, and merchandise. the store might also advertise online or via other media, which eats up some of the profits. you get operating income after subtracting all of those expenses. operating expenses don’t include non-operational costs. for instance, if a business has debt, the interest it pays the bank doesn’t come out of operating income. but more on that later. for now, i want to focus on operating income, revenue, and how both get calculated. we’ll also take a look at how revenue and operating income influence stock prices, especially among larger companies. operating income vs. revenue revenue represents all the money a business brings in through the sale of products or services. for instance, if you run a business consultancy and 10 clients pay you $5,000 per month for your services, your annual revenue is $600,000. you get operating income by subtracting the cost of goods sold and operating costs from total revenue. the cost of goods sold typically incorporates the price of merchandise, any advertising and marketing expenses, materials, labor, and so on. let’s say you have an e-commerce store that sells clothing. you source your merchandise from the manufacturers or brands, so your cost of goods sold would include what you pay for the merchandise. you might buy a pair of jeans for $50 from the manufacturer, then sell them for $100 to the consumer. if you manufacture your own products, the cost of goods sold incorporates materials, labor, skus, and more. these costs all come out of revenue. generally, a revenue increase influences stock prices in a positive way. more investors want to buy shares in companies that experience revenue growth. operating income vs. net income you may have also heard of a term called net operating income. what’s the net operating income? it’s another term for operating income. it’s the total operating revenue minus operating expenses. it’s important to note that some income statements will label terms differently. but don’t confuse net operating income with net income. so what is net income? and how does it differ from net operating income? well, companies have expenses that are not always related to the operation of the business or the goods they sell, such as their interest on loans and taxes. these are not included in the calculation of operating income … to calculate net income, you deduct other expenses, such as debt repayments for loans, and income taxes, from the operating income. in simple terms … net income is the income remaining after all deducting expenses from revenue. it’s an important figure since a company can report income after calculating operating expenses. but, after debt re-payments, the company may be in the red. net income is sometimes referred to as the bottom line … because it’s the bottom line on the income statement. and because it’s the lowest amount of income after all expenses have been accounted for. operating income vs. profit if you’re still not sure what operating income is, read the previous sections a few times until you understand. because now i’m going to explain how the operating income differs from profits. operating profits are similar to the operating income. the term ‘profits’ in accounting can refer to amounts using different calculations. whereas terms such as income are more of a concrete term. calculations of profits can include interest earned on any investments or other income streams. obviously, this can impact the figures on the income statement as it will show a higher number than just the operating income, which is only the income and expenses related to the operations of the company. however, it is important to note that terms like income, profit can be synonymous. operating income examples © 2020 millionaire media, llc let’s look at an example of operating income as it would be seen on an income statement. the highlighted areas show the rows that are used to calculate operating income. if you were to look at the financials for lower-priced stocks, most of these categories would be empty or in the negative. see the income statement below for amazon.com, inc. (nasdaq: amzn). income statement below for amazon.com, inc. (nasdaq: amzn) *all numbers in thousands the yellow highlighted area is the gross profits, or the total profits after subtracting costs fo goods sold. then you subtract the total operating expenses (red highlighted area) and you’re left with the green highlighted area, the operating income or loss. below is the income statement for tesla, inc. (nasdaq: tsla). income statement for tesla, inc. (nasdaq: tsla) *all numbers in thousands what is ebit in finance? © 2020 millionaire media, llc ebit is an acronym for earnings before interest and tax. it’s a calculation that’s synonymous with operating income or operating profit. you can use ebit to determine whether a company is profitable. it has nothing to do with capital structure, debt, or taxes. that makes it a pure figure in terms of a company’s ability to generate profit. even if a company takes on debt, for instance, or pays a high tax rate, it can be considered successful based on its ability to move merchandise or sell services. ebit also represents a good indicator of a company’s earning potential. if another company was considering acquiring a business, it might consider ebit over its capital structure to determine whether it represents a good investment. the only difference between ebit and operating income is that the former sometimes takes into account non-operating income. for instance, if the company has profitable investments, that income can be incorporated into ebit. additionally, you’ll always see operating income on a financial statement, but ebit is typically absent. is operating income the same as ebit? i’m partial to ebit calculations because they give you a fuller picture of a company’s financial health. you can take into consideration certain non-operational costs that influence how a company is doing and how it might fare in the future. since ebit is defined as earnings before interest and tax, you can incorporate other one-time or ongoing expenses. i mentioned above that a lawsuit could directly impact not only profit, but a company’s future earnings potential. with ebit, you can take that lawsuit and its costs into consideration. the same isn’t true for operating income. a lawsuit can result in numerous fees, including legal expenses and financial judgments. if a company is forced to pay millions in damages in a class-action suit, its financial health takes a steep dive. additional earnings can be taken into consideration, too. let’s say a company sells a huge asset, such as a real estate holding. it can include the sale price in ebit, but not in operating income. how to calculate operating income © 2020 millionaire media, llc so how do you calculate operating income? you subtract operational expenses from the total revenue. an operating expense is one that contributes to a company’s day-to-day operations and typically consists of recurring costs. for instance, a company that owns equipment can depreciate its value and include it as part of its operating expenses. but why would you want to know a company’s operating income? for one thing, it suggests the company’s degree of profitability. if a company’s operating income declines, the loss in profit might concern investors. additionally, it allows you to calculate the company’s operating margin, which is the profit earned for every $1 of sales. operating margin can be either positive or negative; if operating expenses exceed profit, the company has a negative operating margin. here’s the operating income formula: revenue – costs of goods sold – operating expenses = operating income gross income gross income is the company’s income after the costs of goods sold have been deducted. a company’s gross income may look promising, but there are typically more expenses related to operating a business that needs to be considered. without including operating expenses as an expense, it’s hard to get a full idea of a company’s income. since only the costs of goods sold are accounted for in the calculation of gross income, it’s not a clear indication of a company’s financial standing. operating expenses operating expenses are the costs associated with running a business. the costs of the goods sold aren’t considered an operating expense. so what are operating expenses? things like supplies, rent or lease of an office or retail space, payroll and marketing costs are some examples. these expenses can vary dramatically, so they can have a huge impact on a company’s overall profits. if they are paying themselves, or employees too much or renting a space that’s too expensive, it can eat away at their income. adjusted operating income adjusted operating income is not a generally accepted accounting principal (gaap). however, sometimes the company needs to adjust the operating income to exclude one-time streams of income or a one-time expense. an example of a one-time income may include any income from an ipo or any stock-related income. these income streams aren’t expected to be a regular income stream. so the operating income for the company may need to be “adjusted” to fully disclose the income, without changing the overall financial picture of the company. there may also be one-time expenses that will require the operating income to be adjusted. think costs associated with an ipo, legal fees, or restructuring the company. these aren’t costs that occur each year, so accounting for them the same as other expenses would skew the financials for the company in the reporting period. after-tax operating income after-tax operating income is a company’s income after taxes. after-tax operating income is not a gaap. so what a company includes — or doesn’t — in the calculation of after-tax operating income can vary. it’s important to understand how companies calculate after-tax figures. the after-tax operating income isn’t always on the income statement. it’s not as commonly used as the pre-tax income, but it’s still important to know. it’s a good representation of the cash available to pay creditors or other expenses that may arise. how does operating income influence stock prices? © 2020 millionaire media, llc operating income is considered a fundamental indicator. this means that investors take it into consideration when deciding whether to buy shares of stock in a particular company. when operating income increases over time, it lends credence to the company’s earning potential. a business can increase its operating income by generating more revenue, reducing its operating costs, or both. but it’s not always that simple. let’s say that company abc experienced a rough quarter. its profits are down due to economic influences, so it cuts its salaried staff by half. the company isn’t necessarily more profitable because it reduced its operating expenses through layoffs or a reduction in force. that’s why as a stock trader you have to look at the whole picture. and, as i’ll discuss in more detail below, operating income doesn’t account for expenses unrelated to operations. if a pharmaceutical company gets sued because one of its drugs results in great harm to patients, it could still look profitable on a balance sheet… but its reputation can take a huge hit and its stock can plummet. what are revenue and gross profit? © 2020 millionaire media, llc it’s easy to confuse revenue and gross profit. they sound like they’re the same thing, but they’re fundamentally different. revenue represents the amount of money a company receives from paying customers or clients. if a company sells 100,000 trampolines at $2,000 each in one fiscal year, its revenue is $200 million. revenue can give you a comprehensive look at a company’s profitability, but it doesn’t take into account any other factors. gross profit, on the other hand, is revenue minus the cost of goods sold. if that same company spends $100 to make each trampoline, its gross profit is $190 million. you subtract $100 from each $2,000 trampoline. operating income differs from gross profit in that it takes into consideration operating expenses. gross profit is a good way to determine whether a company has a decent profit margin. in other words, is it generating significant value for every dollar spent? let’s go back to the trampoline example. what if another company sells its trampolines for the same price, but spends $500 to manufacture each one? given the same sales, that company’s gross profit falls to $150 million — a $40 million difference. but how does gross profit influence the stock market? take amazon, for instance. it announced after the first quarter of 2018 that it generated $1.6 billion in profit. as a result, the stock climbed 7%. there were a couple of factors at play here. first, a $1.6 billion profit is nothing to sneeze at. in fact, it’s pretty remarkable given all of amazon’s costs. it’s producing original programming, offering two-day shipping for free to prime members, and running a whole web services department. based on those factors, analysts expected the company to experience a huge drop in profit. when the exact opposite happened — its profit more than doubled — the stock price surged. this is common when a company’s fundamentals prove different from public expectations. it’s also one of the most exciting things about the stock market. what are direct costs? a direct cost is a predictable, specific cost related to the production of a specific product. if you manufacture and sell shoes, for instance, the leather used for a shoe’s upper is a direct cost. it’s both specific and necessary to the manufacturing of the shoe. materials are just one form of direct cost. for instance, let’s say that you produce just one product — we’ll go with a trampoline — and you have a manufacturing plant. you can attribute every cost related to that plant, from renting the space to paying the salaries of its employees, to direct costs. they’re associated with the production of a single product. what are indirect costs? indirect costs are a little more difficult to pin down. they’re typically considered operational costs that can’t be traced to a single product. let’s go back to our trampoline manufacturing plant. we’re adding another trampoline to the product line. the same plant will create it and the same employees will oversee each step. none of those expenses — rent or salaries, for instance — can fall under direct costs any longer. indirect costs can also constitute operating expenses that don’t specifically relate to product creation. for instance, administrative expenses are indirect costs. so are equipment depreciation and amortization. depreciation refers to the declining market value of a piece of equipment. as you use a forklift and time passes, the forklift’s value decreases. that’s an operating cost. amortization refers to the accounting practice of spreading out a piece of equipment’s cost over a long period of time — specifically, its lifetime in operations. instead of saying a forklift costs $25,000 the day it’s bought, you could set a $2,500 cost for every year of its 10 years in operation. differences between operating income and non-operating income © 2020 millionaire media, llc operating income is distinct from non-operating income on a financial statement. the latter is income unrelated to a company’s day-to-day operations. the specific non-operating costs for a business will vary depending on its debts, assets, and method of operations. they could include debt liabilities, currency exchange, investments, the selling of assets, and more. “income” can seem a little misleading in this context. for both operating income and non-operating income, both gains and losses come into consideration. for instance, if a company’s investment undergoes a drop in value, the number still goes into the non-operating income column. matching market capitalization with operating income now, we’ll circle around to the stock market again. you knew i’d get there eventually, right? time for a new vocabulary word: market capitalization. it sounds complicated, but it’s not. market capitalization refers to the market value of one share of a company’s stock. pretty simple, right? everything has a market value. if you want to sell your used car to someone in your neighborhood, that person will likely check the kelley blue book for its market value in a private-party sale. he or she doesn’t want to get ripped off. it works both ways. if you’re trying to unload a car worth $10,000 for $5,000, the prospective buyer will wonder what might be wrong with it. you can see how market value would be of particular interest to stock traders. if you know the market capitalization of a particular company’s stock, you can make a more informed decision about your trades, whether you go long or short. to calculate market capitalization, multiply a company’s current share price by the number of outstanding shares in the marketplace. if a company’s stock is going for $5 per share and there are 1 million shares outstanding, it has a market capitalization of $5 million. based on this knowledge, we know that stock price doesn’t tell the whole story. the larger the market capitalization, the more secure and stable it becomes. market capitalization is a way to classify stocks. a mid-cap company, for instance, is likely in a growth stage. you might see short-term gains, as well as long-term gains, assuming the trend continues. large-cap companies are your walmarts and targets. they’re extremely stable, which can make them better long-term investment candidates. small- and micro-cap companies are more exciting. you see far more volatility and assume more risk — but only if you don’t educate yourself. penny stocks, for instance, fall into the micro-cap classifications. they typically have market capitalizations of $300 million or less. how can traders take advantage of operating profit or loss? © 2020 millionaire media, llc price movement is the most important key to making money in the stock market. if a stock’s price remains the same for long periods of time, money won’t be gained or lost. you won’t see much trading activity. it’s when a company breaks resistance or support that things get interesting. high volatility can mean ample opportunity to make money, whether you’re betting on a supernova or short-selling a stock you believe will sink in price. big changes in operating income often precede price movement on the stock market. you have to be ready for it, though. be prepared to benefit from this situation first, know your rules. what are you willing to risk, what’s your stop-loss point, and how will you pay attention to the trade? what’s your trading style? your rules are key to keeping you safe when trading any securities. i know mine backward and forward. if there’s been a change in a stock’s operating income, watch for the breakout point. you might see some rapid fluctuation between support and resistance, then a bull or bear flag. that’s the time to buy-in. trading challenge does all of this seem a little complicated? it’s actually fairly easy to understand once you immerse yourself in the world of stock market trading, but it’s no fun to go it alone. my trading challenge students benefit from watching my trades in real-time and learning from both me and my top students. we’re constantly sharing advice, strategies, and tips, and we’re great about answering questions. plus, as part of my trading challenge package, you get access to tons of resources that can make you a better, more informed trader. apply today if you’re interested in becoming my next success story. the bottom line © 2020 millionaire media, llc the stock market might seem to have little to do with accounting, but the two are actually intrinsically linked. if you don’t understand accounting, reading a balance sheet might prove impossible. knowing what operating income is and how it influences the stock market puts you in a great position to profit from price acceleration. you’ll know when to buy in and get out after information gets released. plus, you’ll be able to hold your own in a conversation with other finance-industry professionals. that’s always a good thing, right? i want to know what you think! leave a comment… share how much has this post helped you? (6 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5) loading... about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more comments (1) february 4, 2020 at 4:44 pm timothy sykes hey everyone, as many of you already know i grew up in a middle class family and didn't have many luxuries. but through trading i was able to change my circumstances --not just for me -- but for my parents as well. i now want to help you and thousands of other people from all around the world achieve similar results! which is why i've launched my trading challenge. i’m extremely determined to create a millionaire trader out of one my students and hopefully it will be you. so when you get a chance make sure you check it out. ps: don't forget to check out my free penny stock guide, it will teach you everything you need to know about trading. :) leave a reply cancel reply about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖