skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events opinion finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles justin tadlock · march 25, 2020 · 9 comments there is a popular saying, which has been used in several memes, among my developer and remote-working friend groups. it … continue reading finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles → block patterns will change everything justin tadlock · march 23, 2020 · 21 comments it was about a year ago. i was happily designing a theme for aspiring novelists. i wanted to get ahead … continue reading block patterns will change everything → block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates justin tadlock · march 19, 2020 · 31 comments the gutenberg project and its eventual full-site editing feature is coming upon a major issue that will need to be … continue reading block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates → the wacky world of sorta brilliant’s sorta fun block plugins justin tadlock · march 12, 2020 · 7 comments you could say that i am a bit of a fanboy of the late 1990s and early 2000s web. i loved the funkiness of geocities. advice for newcomers to remote work: lessons learned justin tadlock · march 10, 2020 · 6 comments “what did you do today?” asked my aunt. “take a nap? watch tv?” “you know, i work a real job, … continue reading advice for newcomers to remote work: lessons learned → will page builders remain competitive in the block era? justin tadlock · march 3, 2020 · 43 comments as elementor, the most-used wordpress page builder, celebrated its first round of funding at $15 million, some of our readers … continue reading will page builders remain competitive in the block era? → on maga caps and wordcamps justin tadlock · february 24, 2020 · 75 comments within wordpress circles, i don’t talk much about politics. i was raised to believe that politics and religion are not … continue reading on maga caps and wordcamps → key takeaways from the first ‘future of themes’ meeting justin tadlock · february 5, 2020 · 16 comments there are few clear answers. as members of the core design, editor, and theme review teams joined for the inaugural … continue reading key takeaways from the first ‘future of themes’ meeting → emoji conbini and the case for a block enhancements directory justin tadlock · january 28, 2020 · 1 comment in december of 2019, nick hamze, the owner of sorta brilliant, quietly launched block garden with a proposal for plugin … continue reading emoji conbini and the case for a block enhancements directory → godaddy’s ‘go’ wordpress theme offers a page-building experience via the block editor justin tadlock · january 21, 2020 · 6 comments godaddy launched its go wordpress theme last week. it has been publicly available through its github repository for several months, … continue reading godaddy’s ‘go’ wordpress theme offers a page-building experience via the block editor → gutenberg can tackle the problems the fields api tried to solve justin tadlock · january 20, 2020 · 27 comments the fields api. never heard of it? that’s ok. outside of the inner development community, it is not widely known. … continue reading gutenberg can tackle the problems the fields api tried to solve → posts navigation 1 2 … 12 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram