wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion 6 reasons why wpbeginner switched to siteground hosting posted on march 4th, 2020 by syed balkhi earlier this year, we switched wpbeginner website to siteground web hosting. several readers noticed the change in our footer area which now says “wordpress hosting by siteground” and asked us to write about why did we make the switch. when it comes to running an… read more » wordpress vs joomla vs drupal – which one is better? posted on february 25th, 2020 by editorial staff while wordpress powers more than 35% of all websites on the internet, it’s not the only open-source content management system (cms) in the market. there are other popular software options available like joomla and drupal. all three of them have a lot in common and… read more » how many wordpress plugins should you install? what’s too many? posted on october 7th, 2019 by editorial staff we are often asked by readers about how many wordpress plugins should they install on their site? the real question everyone wants to know is how many plugins are too many? since there are a lot of misconceptions about wordpress plugins, and how they can… read more » wordfence vs sucuri – which one is better? (compared) posted on september 11th, 2019 by editorial staff wordfence and sucuri are two of the best and most popular wordpress security plugins on the market. they are both highly recommended and incredibly helpful in keeping your wordpress site secure. this makes it hard for beginners to choose which one is right for them.… read more » how we made wordpress faster than static site generators (case study – speeding up wpbeginner) posted on september 5th, 2019 by syed balkhi on the 10th anniversary of wpbeginner, i shared that wpbeginner hosting infrastructure got a huge upgrade thanks to our web hosting partner, hostgator. shortly after, i started getting emails from readers asking me to share the details on how we made wpbeginner load blazing fast.… read more » wordpress vs. blogger – which one is better? (pros and cons) posted on august 29th, 2019 by editorial staff are you planning to start a new blog? not sure whether you should use wordpress or blogger as your blog platform? well, we can help. wordpress and blogger are the two most popular blogging platforms on the internet. they both let you create a blog… read more » bigcommerce vs woocommerce – which one is better? (comparison) posted on may 7th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to create an online store? are you confused about whether to use bigcommerce or woocommerce? if so, then you’re not alone. woocommerce and bigcommerce are two of the most popular ecommerce platforms in the market. the competition is fierce, but both of… read more » wix vs wordpress – which one is better? (pros and cons) posted on february 4th, 2019 by editorial staff are you trying to decide between wix vs wordpress to build your website? while wordpress is the most popular website builder in the world, it is not the only option. after seeing tv commercials for wix, some of our users asked us to do a… read more » shopify vs woocommerce – which is the better platform? (comparison) posted on january 30th, 2019 by editorial staff are you thinking of starting an online store? not sure whether you should use shopify or woocommerce? shopify and woocommerce are the two top ecommerce platforms in the world each with their own pros and cons. as a business owner, choosing the right ecommerce platform… read more » squarespace vs wordpress – which one is better? (pros and cons) posted on january 8th, 2019 by editorial staff squarespace and wordpress are two popular website builders that allow you to easily create a website without any technical skills or programming knowledge. recently, our readers asked us to compare squarespace vs. wordpress because they were seeing a lot of commercials on tv for both… read more » 1 2 3 … 5 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.