skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / optimum internet: reviews, pricing, & performance optimum internet: reviews, pricing, & performance by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in broadband collect this idea image: fizkes/shuttershock optimum internet: reviews, pricing & performance optimum internet if you live in or near new york, then you might have heard of optimum. optimum delivers cable-based high-speed internet to about 4 million people in select areas of the northeast, including connecticut, new jersey, and new york. in addition to internet plans, optimum provides phone and tv throughout its service area and over 2 million wifi hotspots, providing customers with connectivity even when away from home. optimum internet packages optimum offers seven different packages, from affordable to fast and powerful. since some plans are only available in select areas, check their website to see which plans are offered in your location. altice advantage internet a joint effort by optimum and suddenlink, this package provides discounted internet service for participants in the national school lunch program, new york city residents attending a new york public school, veterans receiving state or federal public assistance, and people age 65 and over who are eligible for supplemental security income. in addition to discounted installation and a free smart router and modem, participants get 30 mbps download speeds for only $14.99 a month. optimum 10 the most basic plan without eligibility requirements, optimum 10 provides connectivity with limited speed at 10 mbps and costs $24.95 per month. optimum 20 upgrading from the basic optimum internet plan provides additional speeds of 20 mbps with only a small increase in price at $29.99 per month. optimum online this plan represents optimum’s standard package, with speeds up to 200 mbps and a cost of $64.95 per month. the plan is the minimum requirement to upgrade to one of optimum’s premium high-speed packages. for customers who lease one of their modems at an additional $10 per month, optimum offers a smart router that is only available to optimum online subscribers. optimum 200 the first of their premium add-on packages, optimum 200 increases speeds up to 200 mbps for an additional $20 per month. at these speeds, customers can stream high definition quality video to multiple devices and support multiplayer online gaming. optimum 200 packages are only offered in select locations, so check your address for availability. optimum 300 optimum 300 offers speeds up to 300 mbps for an additional $55 per month. users can stream 4k ultra high definition video on multiple devices while other household devices continue to run without interruption. as with the optimum 200 package, the optimum 300 package is only offered in select locations. check this website for availability. optimum 400 optimum’s top-tier package supports up to 400 mbps network speeds, sufficient for even heavy-duty broadband usage. this high-end plan is available for an additional $66 per month. optimum 400 premium packages are available in select locations; check your address to learn if it’s available in your area. optimum availability with coverage in connecticut, new jersey, and new york, optimum internet provides a large population with high-speed broadband connections. optimum features optimum’s broadband connection can broadcast wifi throughout the entire house. they also offer wifi coverage through over 2 million hotspots throughout the three-state area. customers can connect to an optimum internet wifi hotspot and enjoy the same protection, responsiveness, and speed as their home connection. the password-protected wifi hotspot also includes mcafee cloud-based virus and malware protection. optimum fees and charges the basic monthly cost doesn’t cover all of your internet service expenses. if you don’t have a modem and router, which must be a brand and model supported by optimum, then you can lease a modem for $10 a month. if you lease a modem and have at least the optimum online plan, you can add a smart router for no additional charge. a network enhancement fee of $3.50 per month is also included in every bill. to start your service, you must pay a one-time charge of $99 for standard installation or $149.99 for premium installation. standard installation sets up one device wirelessly with a maximum of two outlets but does not include hardwiring. premium installation allows customers to request hard wiring with ethernet to a single device, smart tv, gaming system, computer, or alarm system. it also includes setting up all available wireless devices and three outlets, with additional outlets costing $25 each. check optimum’s website for additional services and charges. optimum reviews the american customer satisfaction index compares optimum against a number of other internet service providers as well as other companies. scoring 63 out of 100 in 2019, optimum ranks highly among internet service providers. in prior years, the company was ranked even higher, securing second place in 2016 and third in 2017 and 2018. if 63 out of 100 seems low, note that internet service providers and tv providers are ranked last among all industries, causing their highest ratings to fall short of other industry averages. reviews.org gives optimum a 3.5 out of 5, but it’s common for dissatisfied customers to take the time to post reviews, so this rating may not be representative of all customer opinions. consumeraffairs gave optimum a 1.9 out of 5 based on 724 ratings submitted. while there were a number of four- and five-star ratings, many reviews were one star, dragging their overall rating down dramatically. summary optimum offers high-speed internet at competitive rates in the new york area. if you need to connect outside your home, you’ll find their 2 million wifi hotspots a major benefit. review optimum’s website to discover the packages available in your area and find the right service for your needs. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband wow! internet plans popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss