organic hat blog resources about us contact manchester, nh 603-397-3546 do you know your customers? how about your competitors? know your customers share your expertise & insight you’ve worked hard to gain the expertise and insight now setting you apart from your competitors.your customers are looking for you to share that expertise and insight by answering their questions. everyday millions of businesses and consumers type questions into search boxes hoping to get an answer, hoping you’ll fix their problem,and answer their question to help them finish their project.it’s those problems, questions and projects that you’re an expert in solving and finishing. you have the products and services that someone is looking for right now. ask yourself, how can i answer the question before it’s asked? your story is key… hard work sets you apart from the competition,it’s time to share what you’ve learned. people are hungry for answers to their questions and they don’t want to spend lots of time searching for those answers.the average person will visit 10 websites looking for the freshest and most relevant information to meet their needs. if your website doesn’t meet their content needs they move on. customers want to know who you are, what drives you and what sets you apart from your competitors. your story is much more than the products and services you offer. the story you have to tell feeds today’s social media hunger and creates more than just a sale, it helps create connection and loyalty. everyone has a story… every small business has a story to tell. where did you start, what’s your favorite (fill-in-the-blank), how is your business different from the competition or maybe where do you see the business in 5 years. telling your story is easier than you might think, let’s work together to tell your story in a compelling way, a way that draws customers into your business. your customer has questions each customer visiting your brick and mortar shop or your digital website arrives with questions about the things they want. equally, they arrive with questions about things they may not even know they need. it’s your job to be ready to answer both types of questions. your experience and expertise puts you in a unique position to answer both types of questions. but most importantly it allows you to anticipate the needs your customers has that they don’t know to ask. your customer often thinks only about what they want and not the how will work in their environment. things such as fit and compatibility often are ignored, that is unless you ask your customers the unasked questions they’ve not asked. to create loyalty, find out how they will use their purchase. the roi of this asking is huge. blog @ organic hat sb-tips #8 (no title) privacy twitter google rss copyright 2019 - powered by organic hat manchester, new hampshire we use cookies to make the user experience better and do not share any collected info with 3rd parties.acceptx