home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library family health food and drink latest articles prevnext organic food for babies leyla preston fri 15th feb 2019 0shares share tweet pin we all want the very best for our kids and this includes the food they put into their mouths. from as young as around six months old, parents are faced with the difficult decision of how best to introduce baby food. before, it was the option of either making the food at home or buying the conventional baby jars from the supermarket. in this age, we now worry about the long-term effects of non-organic food versus the organic variety. so, which is better? motherhood diaries discusses whether organic food is indeed a more viable option for our babies than their non-organic alternatives. what does ‘organic food’ mean? organic food, put simply, means food that is grown out in the garden or houses like premier polytunnels, without synthetic fertilisers or pesticides. pesticides are used to protect farmer’s crops from mould, insects and diseases. however, the pesticide spray may leave a residue on the produce and, arguably, this residue might cause harm to infants in the long-term. having said that, the residue in both organic and non-organic food does not currently exceed government safety thresholds. the soil association, which campaigns for organic food and farming, says that some of the chemicals that are used in traditional farming may have long-term effects on health, by contributing to male infertility and even cancer. the soil association also states that three out of four babies in the uk have organic baby food regularly. so, why go organic? here are some reasons as to why organic is a preferred option for most: organic food is environmentally friendly organic food tastes better organic meat is friendlier to the animals, as antibiotics are not added routinely to animal feed. some people believe that this practice may be the reason why humans are becoming resistant to antibiotics. organic food is not allowed to contain any artificial colourings, sweeteners or flavourings. it also cannot contain any genetically modified ingredients. some campaigns believe that organic food offers health benefits, such as cancer prevention and higher vitamin levels. however, there is not enough evidence to back these claims up. legal limits are placed on a number of pesticide residues found in commercial baby food, as they are more dangerous for children to ingest. therefore, children should eat more organic foods to prevent exposure to genetically modified ingredients. the long-term effects, however, are still unknown. is organic baby food really all that it is cracked up to be? overall, yes, organic food for babies is better. however, if you are offering your child healthy food, this is far more important because you are setting your baby up for the best possible start in life, whether it is organic or not. also, note that some organic baby foods have been found to contain similar levels of environmental pollutants as the standard baby food jars. processing also destroys some of the residue found in fresh food and pesticide residue has not been found in conventionally produced foods either. baby food like non-organic breakfast cereal may actually be a healthier option for children as organic cereals don’t contain any of the fortified vitamins and minerals. whatever your reason for going organic, it is important to note that your baby needs the best possible start in life. so, offering your baby a healthy and nutritious diet, not only offers them the best possible start in life, but it also allows them to have a great relationship with food in general. be mindful that sometimes organic baby food can sometimes be the better option in terms of least exposure the residue found in non-organic food. however, it is also just as important to ensure your baby gets all the vitamins and mineral they need from fortified products, which are not found in organic food. in this case, common sense will prevail. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:foodorganicpolytunnels related posts half term fun at ora’s cookery event grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... degustabox review plus competition/givea... march 2015 – degustabox product re... september 2014 – degustabox produc... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... january 2016 – degustabox product ... little dish review and competition (5 go... turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe spooktacular fruit and veg halloween cre... baking cocoa, almond and raisin cookies ... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... bernard matthews launches new meal booti... november 2016 (christmas) degustabox rev... august 2016 degustabox review quorn – a healthy alternative to meat &#... how to create an awesome birthday party ... 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... quorn cookery class at underground cooke... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... fish & chips recipe with a twist! walkers mighty lights review how much does it cost eat like an olympi... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... early signs of labour – and what t... february 2015 – degustabox product... chef paul rankin’s campaign to bring fam... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok