subscribe by email rss life in leggings a healthy lifestyle blog home about contact family work out with me faqs press disclaimer recipes breakfast lunch snacks dinner & entrees desserts & sweets soups & stews drinks & smoothies vegetarian fitness cardio workouts circuit workouts nasm & study guides running & race recaps workout playlists weekly workouts sponsor reviews favorites friday favorites beauty health fitness blogging tutorials & videos dance highlights & faqs coffee talks travel orlando & florida detroit & michigan wedding orlando & florida i am a proud florida native through and through. i was born and raised in longwood, which is just about thirty minutes from downtown orlando. the popular theme parks are located about twenty or so minutes south of that, which is actually closer to kissimmee and celebration. after scott and i got married, we lived in a condo in metrowest only five minutes down the street from universal studios! we loved it there. a lot of people only associate touristy things to do with orlando, but there really is so much more to see! since i wasn’t blogging too long before we moved, i missed capturing a lot of our whereabouts. below you will find a mixture of highlights and suggestions of things do to if you happen to be in our home city of o-town! orlando random things you should do • get a publix sub. yes from the deli section of the grocery store. if you’ve never had one before, just do it and thank me later! • enzian theater: sit-down dinner and a movie at one unique venue • discovery cove: pricey, but so worth the experience • howl at the moon (international drive): a dueling piano bar • taverna opa (point orlando): greek cuisine where you are encouraged to dance on the tables and throw napkins in the air (so fun!) • ride the sling shot at magical midway (scary, but awesome) • icebar orlando: if you are looking for a cool (literally) spot for nightlife, this bar is actually made out of ice! • the imperial wine bar & beer garden: furniture shop that turns into a beer and wine bar at night, often with food trucks • check out the parks i listed below (under areas to visit, not theme parks) theme parks (in my favorite order) • universal studios: city walk and the theme park • seaworld theme park • disney world parks (our favorites are animal kingdom and epcot for the food & wine festival in the fall!) nearby beaches (all about an hour or less driving time) • new smyrna beach • daytona beach • cocoa beach sports • orlando magic (my first nba dance team!) • orlando solar bears • orlando city soccer oralndo areas to visit to anyone who asks me what to check out in orlando, i always suggest going to walk, shop, and eat at the districts with park in the title. they are all so beautiful and welcoming! • winter park: park avenue & winter park farmer’s market • lake eola park (i used to love doing training runs here!) • college park • baldwin park • thornton park • uptown altamonte & cranes roost park things to do (in the actual “city” of orlando) • downtown orlando, church street & events at the amway center • the mall at millenia and shops/restaurants on millenia blvd: burger 21, keke’s breakfast café • cypress grove park • dr. phillips community park (and dog park!) • restaurant row – dr. phillips • orlando international premium outlets • international drive (tourist hot spot, but has some great restaurants too!) • eat at emeril’s at universal city walk (so fun!) our favorite restaurants international drive • cafe tu tu tangos (tapas): live entertainment and the location of our first date! • charley’s steakhouse • texas de brazil • sleuth’s mystery dinner show (also could be filed under things to do!) gotha • yellow dog eats (very much worth the drive) downtown area • 310 lakeside • shari sushi lounge • spice steakhouse • civiche (tapas) • kres chophouse • the rusty spoon • dandelion communitea café (vegan) • infusion tea (vegan) • eola wine company (wine bar & appetizers) • agave azul (closer to the parks, but amazing mexican cuisine!) • soco restaurant winter park (& park avenue): • 4 rivers smokehouse bbq (you have to try it at least once!!) • bosphorus turkish cuisine • blu on the avenue • the wine room (wine bar & appetizers) • briar patch • powerhouse café (very casual, but very yummy smoothie & lunch spot) • the ravenous pig dr. phillips • first watch café (i waitressed here for 3 years and still love it) • rocco’s tacos • roy’s • season’s 52 • dragonfly sushi lounge • greek flame taverna • bravo! cucina italiana altamonte springs • season’s 52 • cafe murano other cities we frequent in florida… clearwater beach clearwater is the prettiest beach i have seen in florida! i have only driven down a couple of times, and the longest scott and i have stayed is a weekend for a friend’s wedding. we stayed at the sand pearl resort and it was gorgeous! places to eat: • island way grill fort lauderdale i went on a trip with a group of girlfriends to celebrate my friend’s bachelorette party in ft. lauderdale. it’s a great city! we stayed at the beautiful the atlantic hotel & spa, and unfortunately this is one of the only photos i have of our time outside! (my camera was stolen.) eh, what’cha gonna do. it was an amazing time, nonetheless. places to eat: • le bonne crepe • mai-kai: hawaiian/polynesian restaurant with live entertainment tampa i absolutely love tampa. it reminds me of a city like orlando, only on the water. tampa bay is so beautiful! i attended the university of south florida and thoroughly enjoyed living in the city for four years! there’s so much to do. i really wish that i blogged back then to be able to share more of my experiences. things to do: • south tampa/hyde park: restaurants, pubs, and places to see on the bay • channelside bay plaza: strip of restaurants & nightlife (splitsville is the best!) • the florida aquarium • new tampa: my old stomping grounds! • busch gardens theme park: one of my very favorites! • adventure island: a great water park, fun for the whole family • international plaza & bay street: a great strip of restaurants and huge shopping mall • hard rock casino like sports? you can always go see the home teams: • tampa bay buccaneers • tampa bay lightening • tampa bay rays places to eat: • bern’s steakhouse • jackson’s bistro (on the water) st. augustine i have been to st. augustine a handful of times, and became quickly reminded of how cool and unique the city is on my last trip. the downtown area is full of history, bed and breakfasts, and unique restaurants. for my 25th birthday, scott took me up for the weekend (it is about two hours north of orlando), and we had the best time. we stayed at the augustin inn in the historic district and loved the experience of staying in a family run b&b. with plenty to do within walking distance, we kept busy visiting the fort, the beach, the famous fountain of youth, and even took a nighttime walking ghost tour. things to do: • meehan’s irish pub places to eat: • the white room st. petersburg & st. pete beach for my bachelorette party, my bridesmaids surprised me with a weekend getaway to st. pete beach! it was so fun. we stayed at the beautiful and luxurious don cesar resort, or what a lot of people like to call the pink castle. it was absolutely stunning! things to do: • st. pete beach placed to eat: • acropolis welcome follow facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter follow search stay in the loop with newsletter updates and exclusive promotions! email address: categories categories select category anniversaries appetizers aspen & cali auditions baby bachelorette party baking barre beauty beautycounter bible quotes blogging blue diamond books breakfast bridal party bridal shower broadway bucket list budget cardio casseroles causes celebrations charities chicken circuit training classes classpass coffee talk coffee talks & thoughts concerts conferences countdowns cpt culture dance day in the life decor desserts detroit dining in michigan dinner diy entertainment faith fall family faqs fashion fashion favorites fitness fitness fashion food friday favorites gifts giveaways grocery hauls group fitness guest posts hair hair & beauty tips half marathon training halloween health healthy eating holiday gift guides holidays home honeymoon interviews lean beef lil baby lil giveaway week lil workout wednesdays looking back lunch makeup mimm motivation moving nails nasm new jersey new york new york city news no bake recipes on-the-go organization orlando pastas photo dump pregnancy press projects q&a races random thoughts and things recipe recaps recipes reviews roadie round-ups running salads scott side dishes skin smoothies snacks soups sponsored sports spring stitch fix summer surveys thanksgiving things i’ve learned in my 30s thinking out loud thought of the day training travel turkey tutorials uncategorized vegan vegetarian vendors videos wedding wedding hints wedding recaps weddings weekend in photos weekly workouts wiaw winter words of wisdom workout roundups workouts yoga twitter tweets by @lifenleggings pinterest copyright © 2020 · foodie child theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in copyright © life in leggings 2020 | designed by murnan creative