skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: other rooms how to light your hallway don’t let hallway lighting be an afterthought. use this guide to light your hallway well. image: svet_feo/shutterstock lighting is important. interior designers, real estate agents and staging pros will all tell you it’s true. if you want your home or apartment to feel inviting, it needs… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in other rooms how to create the ultimate game room it’s nearly everyone’s dream: the ultimate game room. whether you’re into classic pool hall games, retro arcade cabinets, card games or the latest in video games, you can’t beat having a place to go in your own home where the only thing to think about is having fun. also, the… by michelle honeyager on march 4, 2020 in other rooms cool trends in pool tables when i was growing up, we had a pool table (or billiard table) room adjacent to the den. it provided endless entertainment, never failed to impress first-time guests and was one of those game rooms that make you the most popular neighbor on the block. we had… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in other rooms our 9 favorite home office desk ideas the top home office desks combine style with functionality. the west elm cross base desk with tempered glass on trendy cross-base legs gives ample room for work and is a stunning focal point. image courtesy of west elm. we hope you like the products we… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in other rooms 10 small corner desks that transform a corner into a functional small home office check out these 10 small corner desks — and how they've been styled — for great ideas to transform a corner into a functional small home office. by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in other rooms high-end workout equipment: technology to transform your home gym the newest high-end workout equipment, including mirror, brings exclusive trainers right to your home – digitally. image: mirror new year, new you! right? at least, that’s usually the goal. but how many of us set resolutions, then head to the gym to… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in other rooms you’ll never want to come down from these attics the attic used to be the place to store items you rarely – if ever – used. in horror movies, apparently, it was also the place where the boogeyman would rest and regroup. perhaps as a result of this media portrayal, there was a tendency to avoid going up into… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in other rooms garage doors aren’t just for garages anymore both garages and garage doors have come a long way. homeowners are deciding to turn their boring garages into showstoppers. and as garages become more stylish, it’s natural that garage doors would also evolve. but who knew that they would become so stylish that they’re now being… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in other rooms create a hobby or craft room in 3 easy steps if you have a hobby, like sewing, photography, music, diy-ing, collecting stamps or trying to fix what your kids and significant other broke, it helps to have a dedicated workspace. below are three easy steps to create a functional yet stylish hobby or craft room. decide where to put it… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in other rooms transform your basement with these creative ideas basements are undergoing a renaissance right now. “traditionally, basements were filled with a sectional, a big screen television, a pool table and a mini fridge for small refreshments,” according to patrick garrett, real estate broker at h&h realty in trussville, al. however, he says the baseme… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in other rooms 1 2 … 6 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss