skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources other freelancing looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start february 15, 2020 by miranda marquit 2 comments freelance jobs abound. if you're hoping to make money online, here are some ideas of where you can start. "how do you find gigs?" this is pretty much the first question anyone asks me when they … continue reading about looking for freelance jobs? here’s where to start 3 things i wish my clients knew about the 1099-k january 5, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment here comes tax season. whether you hire freelancers, or are a freelancer yourself, watch out for the 1099-k. the introduction of the form 1099-k a few years ago has many people trying to figure … continue reading about 3 things i wish my clients knew about the 1099-k 5 financial mistakes to avoid as a freelancer august 30, 2016 by miranda marquit 13 comments working for yourself can be exciting, but there are also pitfalls. watch out for these financial mistakes common to freelancers. this blog post was written as part of a sponsored program for state … continue reading about 5 financial mistakes to avoid as a freelancer what you need to know about self-publishing a book february 23, 2016 by miranda marquit 3 comments are you interested in self-publishing a book? here's what you need to know about the mechanics of making it happen. a couple years ago, i self-published a book. it was my third book, and my first … continue reading about what you need to know about self-publishing a book freelance work experiment: coaching others january 19, 2016 by miranda marquit leave a comment i've dipped my toe into the realm of coaching others. it's not what i normally do, but i found it fulfilling. for the most part, i stick to content creation. i've run a few blogger campaigns, but … continue reading about freelance work experiment: coaching others how to get periscope videos onto youtube december 8, 2015 by miranda marquit 3 comments several readers have asked about how to get periscope videos onto youtube. here's the process i followed during my short-lived persiscope experiment. for a few months earlier this year, i answered … continue reading about how to get periscope videos onto youtube go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 11 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com