instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "ottawa events" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: ottawa events rebecca 2 min read december 6, 2018 no reply around ottawa: kidsmas, a fun holiday event at fairfields heritage house is december 8! around ottawa this post is a part of my ad partnership with the city of ottawa museums on december 8th, head to kidsmas! i love this time of year in ottawa. there are so many events that are exciting for families and kids of all ages. i know how tricky it can be to sometimes plan events for our little ones, in between nap times and early bedtimes. and even though my kids are older, continuing to have special family traditions around the holidays are important (maybe even a little more so to ensure that magic and spirit of christmas continues!) looking for a family friendly christmas activity to do with the kids in #ottawa? fairfields heritage house is hosting kidsmas on december 8th! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet this weekend, there’s another city of ottawa museum event that i’m really excited to share with you. it sounds like another fantastic opportunity to put the entire family in the holiday mode. kidsmas at fairfields heritage house (located on richmond road – right across from the bayshore shopping centre) is on december 8th, between 9 am and 1 pm. you don’t need to register for this event, making it easy to drop in for some indoor and outdoor holiday fun. i love history (as you probably know) and fairfields heritage house is a 19th centure gothic revival farm house that welcomes visitors to learn about ottawa’s history throughout the regular season as well as special programs and workshops. now, during this time of year, they are hosting a family event that focuses on the christmas season (and you’ll still get to learn about ottawa’s history!) kidsmas at fairfields heritage house invites kids of all ages to paint the snow outside (weather permitting), and then head inside to warm up with christmas goodies and hot chocolate. while inside, there are different crafts to make – tree ornaments and christmas cards! this is a hands-on day that is perfect for kids of all ages. this entire day is sure to be so much for kids of all ages and is a great time to check out fairfields heritage house, a museum that isn’t as well known as some others (i haven’t been yet, and just seeing the pictures from inside the home makes me want to go!) admission details: $17.25 family (two adults and accompanying children); $6.50 single admission; $10.75 per pair remember, the event is only between 9 am and 1 pm (making it the perfect pre-nap activity) and only happens on december 8th! for more details visit the fairields heritage house website. photo credit: city of ottawa museums rebecca 3 min read november 29, 2018 no reply december 1 – family holiday activities in ottawa: elves at the estate around ottawa this post is brought to you in partnership with the city of ottawa museums all month long in december, many families across the ottawa area will be looking to spend time together in creative, special ways to celebrate the holiday season. if you are wanting to add some new events to your traditions list, you’ll want to check out the holiday programming at one of the city of ottawa museums. there is a lot happening all month long – including this weekend’s elves at the estate! on december 1st, bundle up your family and head to billings estate national historic site for elves at the estate. your own little elves will get to indulge in holiday treats, participate in craft time and if the weather cooperates, play outside on the expansive estate grounds. photo credit: city of ottawa museums here’s what you need to know about elves at the estate: it’s family friendly, and children of all ages are welcome. yes, your toddlers and preschoolers will think it’s fun sing along, craft and look for the elves -they’ll even get to make their own elf hats. but your preteens (and teens!) will also get into the christmas spirit thanks to the seasonal music, and with a warm cup of hot chocolate in their hands. plus, there will be a photobooth station (outside, weather permitting) for the perfect holiday photo opportunity. tell your kids to hashtag it #familytime 😉 there will be christmas stories being told, and your family will learn the history of christmas cards (and you can make one yourself!) and of course, santa himself will be available to hear everyone’s wish lists (fyi – santa is bilingual!) elves at the estate, a family outing at the billing estate national historic site is taking place on december 1, between 10 am and 4 pm. a few final notes: registration is not required (it’s a drop in program) this event is for families of all ages and some activities are outside as well as inside (so you likely will want to dress accordingly so you don’t miss out on any of the fun events!) cost: $17.25 family (two adults and accompanying children); $6.50 single admission; $10.75 per pair more information can be found on the website and on the facebook event page. not able to make it this weekend? no worries, there are other opportunities to enjoy the festive fun at the estate during their new holiday hours: friday, december 21 (4 pm to 8 pm) saturday, december 22 (12 pm to 6 pm) sunday, december 23 (12 pm to 6 pm). on these days, regular admission fees apply ($16 per family; $6.50 adult; $5.50 seniors and students; $4 child).you can explore the exhibitions, see the museum decorated for the holidays, and enjoy a christmas-themed craft. have fun this weekend! photo credit: city of ottawa museums rebecca 4 min read november 28, 2018 no reply gift idea: give tickets to broadway across canada’s upcoming show in ottawa around ottawa this post is in partnership with blog advertiser broadway across canada give a broadway experience this christmas when it comes to gift giving, during the holidays or for special occasions throughout the year, we all have some people on our list who may be harder to buy for, or maybe we just want to give them a gift that doesn’t come from a store. they might be your parents, close friends, or your spouse. i think that’s why experience gifts are becoming more popular, for kids and adults. many of us are trying to live a more minimalist lifestyle in many ways, focusing on how we spend our time rather than the things we surround ourselves with. and we teach our children the same. i’m excited to share with you one gift idea that is perfectly timed for this year’s holiday gift giving if you live in the ottawa area – and that’s the gift of the broadway across canada performance of beautiful: the carole king musical. beautiful: the carole king musical is coming to ottawa at the national arts centre for a limited run between january 1 and january 6 (there are two matinee performances in there) which makes it the perfect gift to open on christmas morning (or to give yourself as a new year celebration). give the gift of broadway this christmas – beautiful: the carole king musical will be in #ottawa between january 1 and 6 at @canadasnac with @bactouring. read more on @bitofmomsense click to tweet here’s a bit about the show from the broadway across canada website: beautiful: the carole king musical tells the inspiring true story of king’s remarkable rise to stardom, from being part of a hit songwriting team with her husband gerry goffin, to her relationship with fellow writers and best friends cynthia weil and barry mann, to becoming one of the most successful solo acts in popular music history. along the way, she made more than beautiful music, she wrote the soundtrack to a generation. admittedly, after learning about the show, while the name was familiar, i couldn’t place why at first, but when i asked andy (who is almost a musical historian in this house) he of course knew – and happily explained to me what i was missing. it’s no wonder this will be a popular show given her story and her music. gift gifting made easy with show tickets giving show tickets means you will not only be offering a unique experience for someone, but also be inviting them to share in a musical that is receiving rave reviews, and features music that so many people already adore. i love the line ‘she wrote the soundtrack to a generation’. there are a few ways i think you could give this gift. give tickets to your partner so that you both can enjoy a date night (bonus if you make reservations at a nearby restaurant too!) or you can make the experience a generational one by gifting it to your parents, aunts or uncles, or others on your list who will have grown up listening to carole king’s music. maybe this is the time to buy a ticket for your mom and chip in to go with all of your siblings? finally, another fantastic gift might be for yourself and a group of friends to plan an evening together. dinner, a broadway performance, and time spent together sounds like a perfect way to kick of a new year. interested in gifting tickets to beautiful: a carole king musical? you can find show days and availability on the broadway across canada website where you can also purchase tickets. lastly, if you want to go to the show yourself, you don’t need a reason to give it to you – you already deserve it! beautiful: the carole king musical is in ottawa between january 1 and january 6 at the nac. rebecca 2 min read january 22, 2015 24 replies enter to win tickets to see dinosaur train at centrepointe theatres! kids, parenting ready to win a pack of 4 tickets to see dinosaur train live on stage at centrepointe theatres? read on! when dinosaur train first came out, it was a hit in this house. the catching song (which is now in my head even as i write this), the versatile characters, the fun story lines – plus, dinosaurs – meant it was set up to be a hit right from the beginning. great news if you are fans of dinosaur train (or family friend live theatre!) – they are bringing buddy and the gang to centrepointe theatres! jim henson’s dinosaur train live! buddy’s big adventure is coming to centrepointe theatres on march 21, 2015 at 1pm & 4pm, and march 20 at 7pm. the popular pbs kids’ series has been transformed into a live stage show for children ages 2-7. dinosaur train live! buddy’s big adventure embraces and celebrates the fascination that preschoolers have with both dinosaurs and trains. the series encourages basic scientific thinking skills as the audience takes a prehistoric journey filled with wonderment about life science, natural history and paleontology. come join buddy, tiny, king, don and all their friends in this fun-filled, interactive and immersive live trip back in time to an age when dinosaurs roamed the earth….and rode in trains! -centrepointe theatres want a sneak peek? check out this video: bit of momsense readers: use the code dino and save $5 on each ticket! (to use the code, look in the grey left hand side bar on the ticket site, click ‘promos’ and enter dino, then proceed to ticket area. you’ll see that each ticket has been discounted $5!) enter to win or, you can try to win your way into the march 20th, 7 pm night show! to win 4 tickets to the show that night, simply comment below and tell me why you want to attend! good luck! don’t forget, if you are buying tickets to use the code dino! rules and regulations: giveaway is open to ottawa area residents, void in qc. winner will receive 4 tickets for the march 20, 7 pm show. tickets will be emailed by centrepointe theatres to one winner, drawn at random. giveaway closes february 4, 5 pm est 2015. no cash value. no exchanges or transfers. rebecca 1 min read january 26, 2012 no reply in and around ottawa – february dates to remember around ottawa wow, it’s hard to believe we are staring at the end of january. but, here we go again – onto another month of great stuff happening in ottawa! have an event you want people to know about? feel free to add it in the comments! **eta: thanks to a reader who also mentioned that the rink of dreams is now ready! great family fun skate time. ottawa is amazing… january 28th: museum of civilization is hosting a children’s reading session with author barbara reid. free with admission to the museum. january 28th at the tartan pub in orleans, the united way is having a chili competition. $10 gets you in to taste. yum! february 3-20 is winterlude in ottawa again! the rideau canal is open for skating and events are happening over the next couple of weeks that will be fun for the whole family! february 6 is the f.a.b. women gala promoting positive change to create awareness about women’s body image and eating disorders. february 14 is valentine’s day. parents, you may be like us and realize that a fancy dinner out mid-week may not happen, so how about ordering a fancy dinner in? epicuria has launched their menu (it looks amazing) and kids eat free when 2 adult meals are ordered! february 17-24 is kindness week in ottawa. there will be lots of opportunities to participate, but if you are a blogger think about some ways to share with your readers how to be kind. february 18-20 is funatorium explorium! a weekend long family fun event that has something for everyone – rock climbing, lego zone, workshops, creating spaces, a marketplace and more, this is a special way to spend a cold winter day. rebecca 3 min read december 1, 2011 1 reply in and around ottawa – dates to remember in december parenting wow. i’m writing about december!! even though the first of the month is packed for me – blog stuff, events, holiday fun – i’ll start to wind down the week before christmas. the house is now fully decorated and i am itching to get my bake on 😉 here are some dates to remember for you or the family. i’m listing only the next two weeks because they are rather busy and as i find out more, i may do a mid-month post. as always, there are so many events in ottawa, i can’t keep up – but feel free to add your suggestions or events in the comments! happy december! december 2 (running until january 7): alight the night is back at upper canada village and this is the year we take the kids and blow their little christmas minds! december 2: the mayfair theatre is opening in orleans! they are kicking off their weekend with showings of the entire back to the future trilogy, the original muppet movie, gone with the wind and more! december 3: shopping and sweets is back! 10 am – 2 pm at the shenkman arts centre. this is the second year i’ve co-organized the event with gwen leron and we are looking forward to a fun and tasty shopping day. december 3: christmas in merrickville. i’ve written about how we love going to merrickville before and i imagine it’s just as great when celebrating for the holidays. this event last all day, into the evening. december 4: the nac has a special kinderconcert featuring a christmas carol. tickets available online. december 7: the new ikea is opening in ottawa. this is a pretty big deal – but stay tuned for first hand sneak peaks as i’m going a bit earlier to check it out and report back! december 7, 14 and 21: gymboree orleans is offering free playgyms between 1:15 and 7 pm and encouraging donations to make a wish foundation. their products will also be 10% off and a portion of the sales will be donated! december 8: west end residents (barrhaven and area) are having a tweet up (#tweethaven) to celebrate the holiday season at boston pizza barrhaven. you can rsvp here. this sounds fun, and makes me think orleans/east enders should counter! 😉 #eastsideyo december 8: christmas cheer breakfast and broadcast. a staple for christmas fundraising in the community for 60 years, the breakfast tickets are now on sale (great networking!) and the broadcast will run all day on cfra. december 10: the mayor’s annual christmas celebration at lansdowne (2 pm – 6 pm). please bring a donation for the ottawa food bank as admission. finally, just for fun from november 30- january 8, the museum of civilization is having an annual christmas tree decorating competition and the public gets to vote on the winner! love it! add your suggestions below! rebecca 3 min read november 8, 2011 1 reply in and around ottawa: dates to remember parenting um. when did it become november? weren’t we just sitting down for turkey dinner? never the less, here it is and there’s a whirlwind of activity in this city this time of year. there are a lot of family, community or random ‘of interest’ events happening, so here are a few to draw your attention to but please feel free to share others in the comments! friday, november 4 and saturday november 5 (ongoing): ten thousand villages (the awesome new blog advertiser which amazing products!) is having their annual festival sale friday evenings and saturdays for the month of november. friday, november 11: remembrance day. take a moment to remember, participate in ceremonies or spend some time doing one of these remembrance day activities with the kids. saturday, november 12: neighbourhood toy stores (nets) of canada is celebrating neighbourhood toy store day! various stores are having events (tag along toys in kanata is having dora and elmo visit the store!) all in support of shopping local. love this (plus, it’s a great time to start some holiday shopping). saturday, november 12: in orleans, there is the annual women entrepreneur’s show and sale at beatrice deslogues high school. lots of vendors and another wonderful way to support local. plus, i know some twitter friends will be there, so be sure to say hi! sunday, november 13: teams of two can register to participate in the ottawa foodie challenge. we know that ottawa is home to some lovely and unique flavours so this should be a delight. the event is in support of the ottawa food bank. thursday, november 17: i’ll be speaking on a panel for an ocri zone5ive about working with bloggers. this is a great opportunity for businesses and companies to consider these relationships and what it could mean for them – plus, how to go about hiring a blogger. details can be found on the ocri website. friday, november 18: for some, there’s a pd day in the city. there’s also a showing of the canadian children’s museum much more munsch puppet show at 10 am. enter here to win family tickets or call the museum for tickets. sunday, november 20: kinderconcerts return to the nac with annabelle follows the sound of her own voice. this whole series looks great, including a christmas carol in december. there are a lot of local craft and artisan fairs taking place. i really encourage you to check one out in your neighbourhood. there are some truly fun and special items you can find for yourself or for gifts, plus you support artisans and local business owners. for example, i found these gems at one in orleans this past weekend! for a list of santa clause parades in ottawa, visit dani’s site postcard from the mothership finally, i’m sneaking in a december date – saturday, december 3 from 10-2 is the second shopping and sweets!! gwen and i have been hard at work and are excited to be supporting two local charities this year. more details to come, but please mark your calendars! add more events/dates to remember below in the comments! facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.