instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "ottawa" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: ottawa rebecca 1 min read february 12, 2020 19 replies ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres around ottawa on february 22nd, at 2:30 pm, your family can attend a show at meridian theatres at centrepointe. ripopee is an imaginative performance with four artists who fall asleep and wake up to discover the audience. as the show progresses, there is an unpredictable and fantastical element that takes your family on an adventure! if you want to buy tickets to ripopee, they are $15 each or 4 for $40 and they are available on the meridian theatre website. here’s a bit more about the show from the city of ottawa: “a clownesque fable about the strength of friendship is a great way to introduce the children in your family to the world of clown theatre. treat them to a performance that is entertaining, interactive and different from your typical stage show. four clowns will take the audience on a hilarious hour-long non-verbal adventure between friends.” enter to win 4 tickets to ripopee at meridian theatres i am so happy to be able to offer one lucky winner the chance to win 4 tickets to see the show on february 22 at 2:30! to enter, simply let me know if you’ve ever been to a show at meridian theatres at centrepointe (or if you would like to check it out!) i’ve been to quite a few different ones and always love going! that’s it! good luck! (if you aren’t the lucky winner, grab your set of tickets here) the giveaway is open until tuesday, february 18th at 12 pm est. one entry per person. draw will be made at random from eligible comments. open to ottawa area residents. tickets will be made available via email or at the ticket booth at the theatre. ps: stay on top of other family friendly shows coming to meridian theatres by visiting their website and signing up for their newsletter! rebecca 5 min read january 28, 2020 no reply a guide to winter for ottawa families around ottawa, play 10 fun outdoor things to do when the temperatures drop and the snow falls in ottawa i have openly admitted that we are not a traditional winter family. we don’t ski, we are only ‘okay’ skaters, and we don’t relish the snow. while we are full of festive holiday spirit in december, the months of january – march can feel long, drawn out and not fun. it’s one reason we are happy when we can escape to warmer climates. but when we stop to plan out some winter fun, we are always amazing at how much we enjoy it. as though by some miracle, the snow wasn’t the worst, and our rosy cheeks at the end of a cold winter day are accentuated by our smiles. if you live in ottawa, you know what winter can really feel like. i’m writing this post when it’s about minus a billion out and the snow is up to my roof top (fine, there may be some exaggeration there but you get my drift. hahaha get it? sigh. i’ve already been shut in for too long) here are 10 winter activities you can do as a family around the ottawa area! have fun! take a staycation and head out to see activities there are so many places in and around ottawa that are perfect for a little getaway, but that also will facilitate some winter fun just by being close to other activities, especially if you time it for winterlude. last year, we stayed at the courtyard marriott downtown and were able to take in outdoor fun while being in the heart of downtown. there’s also brookstreet which offers a mini getaway and a skating rink! i like being able to enjoy some outdoor time, but then let the kids swim in the hotel pool or warm up together over a nice meal. attend winterlude winterlude will begin on january 31 until february 17. there are events all over the city, including snowflake kingdom, sparks street and shenkman arts centre. it’s an annual winterfest in ottawa that brings many locals and tourists out to enjoy the snow! go skate on the rideau canal (or one of the many outdoor rinks!) when weather conditions are right, skating on the canal is a traditional ottawa winter bucket list item, but there are other skating rinks around the city to enjoy (you likely have one right in your neighbourhood!) go sledding from small little hills to thrilling ones across the city, sledding is always a favourite activity for our family. savvymom ottawa has a list of some locataions. go to parc omega yes, parc omega is open in the winter, and a wonderful time to go is in march when their sugar bush is available. we loved it. you can read more about our visit in this post. visit a maple sugar bush speaking of sugar bushes, i love them, and when you have the chance to have a true pancake breakfast at a sugar bush, i always recommend it. we have many in and around the ottawa area. i’ve shared a few on the blog before, including one we like going to that’s a little bit of a drive out of town but the food is amazing. take a trip to chateau montebello this is how your winter in luxury. we take a trip in december every year and don’t always have true winter weather when we go, but we have gone in february before and love it. with two outdoor skating rinks, curling, tubing nearby and a fireplace to cozy up to after a long winter day, this is a trip that’s always a pleasure. skate through a forest did you know the ottawa area has places to go skating along a long pathway? the forest skating options just outside of the city sound like so much fun! here’s a list of where you can skate through a forest, and other outdoor rinks that i wrote for savvymom. eat a beavertail my ‘must do’ lists when i travel or stay local and explore our neighbourhoods often include a foodie item, and grabbing a beavertail on the canal or in the byward market while you are standing in the cold feels amazing. they are warm, sweet and the perfect way to end or begin some outdoor fun. go snowshoeing there are many trails to go snowshoeing in and around ottawa with the kids. i feel like this is an underrated activity. i don’t own them, but i want to think that if we did, we would head outside for a walk more often. here’s information about snowshoeing in gatineau park. what are some outdoor activities you like to do in the ottawa area as a family? rebecca 3 min read november 23, 2019 no reply create together for the holidays! around ottawa this post is in partnership with the city of ottawa, a blog advertiser upcoming city of ottawa workshops i love the holidays. i feel like i’ve said that many times before on this blog, but i really do. christmas is filled with activities (ones we do daily as a family) and events that make my heart sing (usually to the tune of a christmas carol). the city of ottawa offers various workshops to create and build as a family during the holiday season. i love these opportunities! remember the reindeers we made one year at the nepean visual arts centre? it was so much fun! here’s a list of upcoming family workshops you might be interested in. i do recommend registering as early as possible, as i know a few of them sell out! these hands-on gatherings are such a great way to create something as a family and build lasting memories. craft time during these events, parents participate with the kids to make crafts and enjoy a meet and greet with santa. the ages range from 3-6, depending on location. registration is available online for the following dates: nepean sportsplex, november 30, 9:30 a.m. pat clark community centre, december 14, 12 p.m. greely community centre, december 17, 9:30 a.m. gingerbread house building we always have gingerbread house building on our advent activity list as a family, so if you want to mix it up (and not have the mess at home) check out these workshops being offered across ottawa. registration is required, and note the different ages depending on day, time and location. also, you’ll notice some days have more than one time you can register for! aquaview community hall, december 5, 5:45 p.m. eva james memorial community centre, december 14, 1 p.m. and 2:45 p.m. (later one for older children) greely community centre, december 7 and december 10, 9:30 a.m. metcalfe community centre, december 15, 1 p.m. nepean sportsplex, december 14, 9:30 a.m. and 11 a.m. letters to santa the city of ottawa archives is once again hosting their letters to santa event on november 30th. kids can not only create their letter to santa but families will make crafts, decorate cookies and hear traditional holiday stories. the best part (other than the memory making of course) is that the event is free: details: 100 tallwood drive, november 30, 9 a.m. – 3 p.m. holiday sign making (adults) sorry kiddos, but this one is for adults only. i wanted to include this event because i think it would be a fun way to get together with some friends to craft, chat and enjoy the afternoon. create a 12″ x 16″ wooden sign during this event. it’s listed for any level of ‘craftiness’. the instructor will contact you by email to select a design. details and to register ($35) nepean visual arts centre, november 30, 1 p.m. i feel like i should have registered for the sign making before hitting publish on this post. i think i want to go! have fun creating this holiday season! pin it! rebecca 1 min read november 13, 2019 no reply pd day activities for kids in ottawa: friday, november 15, 2019 around ottawa there’s a pd day this friday for almost all the schools across the city and if you are wanting to find a fun activity for the kids to do, or if you are wishing you had signed them up for camp, i’ve gathered a few ideas that you can look into at the last minute. my gym ottawa my gym ottawa is running pd day camps throughout the year, including on friday november 15. for $40-$45, kids aged 3-10 can play and burn off all their energy as the teachers lead them through fun activities. kessel run games for $25, your child can learn to play many new games – at kessel run games in orleans! this is for kids aged 6-16 and runs from 7:30 – 4:30. theatre camp this bilingual theatre camp is hosted by the ottawa school of theatre and will focus on skills development and self-confidence through theatre games, acting and more. this takes place at the shenkman arts centre in orleans. tinkering school pd day camp the ottawa tool library has a very cool opportunity for kids aged 8-12 as they host a tinkering school day camp! kids will make their own plant-based ink and create art! all materials are provided but tickets are required. city of ottawa camps* the city of ottawa is hosting a variety of camps across the city where your child can craft, swim, play and make friends. visit the recreation website for full details. there are even camps that offer an adventurous experience by going on an outing, like this one at walter baker sports centre. there are still spaces available for many camps in a variety of locations. have fun! *the city of ottawa is a blog advertiser, but this round up is meant to be for informational purposes* rebecca 3 min read october 29, 2019 no reply halloween events: the week of halloween around ottawa there are only a few days left until halloween, but if you have young children (babies and toddlers) who aren’t in school, there are still many events happening this week that you might want to get involved in! while my kiddos are at school all week and our final halloween blast of fun happened this weekend (pumpkin carving! saunders farm! decorations!) until we are back in costume on halloween night, i remember the days leading up to halloween when they were at home with me and we were looking for some fun. or maybe you are just wanting to have a back up plan for halloween night in case you decide the weather is not cooperating for an extended door-to-door trick or treat session. i’ve gathered a list of fun halloween activities happening this week! halloween activities in ottawa between october 30 and october 31 toddler hunt at the diefenbunker on october 31, bring your little ones to the diefenbunker* for an underground friendly haunt (oh wait, that’s hunt!) for treats. admission is free for kids under 5, and by donation for others. the fun begins at 10:30 until 3:30 and of course costumes are encouraged. no reservations are required. the haunted community centre at dovercourt if you want to avoid trick or treating in the rain (although i am hoping the forecast changes!) or just want to bring your little ones to a fun, indoor activity, check out the free haunted community centre event at dovercourt between 6:30 and 8:30 pm! wild child coffee project halloween party on wednesday, october 30, dress the wee one up and head to wild child coffee project for their special halloween party! their regular admission fee applies but beginning at 9 am until 3 pm, enjoy a halloween-filled day! visit the facebook page for details on the activities planned. trick or treat at a mall place d’orleans is once again hosting a special halloween day. trick or treaters can look for treats at participating stores between 10 am and noon, and from 10 am until 2 pm there will be face painting in the bmo court! billings bridge shopping centre welcomes guests for their enchanted halloween parade on october 31 at 5 pm until 7 pm. kids in costumes between the ages of 4 and 12 will receive treats! check out the mall nearest you to see if they have a special halloween event! if you do end up taking the littlest kiddos trick or treating (which i highly recommend!) here are a few tips: bring a bag with handles. pillow cases were amazing when we were kids, but turns out, little ones don’t hold onto them very well! bring mitts – hands are the first thing to get cold! go early! you’ll usually be able to tell when the acceptable time is in your neighbourhood based on when you see others out or your own bell rings, but as soon as you think you can, take them out! overtired children aren’t fun to trick or treat with stay safe and have fun together! *the diefenbunker is a blog advertiser but this event makes the list because it’s on halloween, for little ones and looks like fun! rebecca 1 min read october 28, 2019 no reply tickets available: ottawa family-friendly dance performance november 2 around ottawa this post is in partnership with shenkman arts centre on november 2, introduce your kids to a live dance performance on stage at the shenkman arts centre. tickets are available for the 26 letter dance by bouge de là. this is a family-friendly performance combines contemporary dance with bright and playful scenes that young audience goers will enjoy. here’s more information about the 26 letter dance: an interactive, multidisciplinary alphabet primer, the 26 letter dance is a journey into the world of letters and words. physically and intellectually engaged in the piece, the young spectator is an active participant in this kaleidoscope rich in colours and textured dance. in this bold and playful work, choreographer hélène langevin invites children to take part in a unique experience in which they not only see a dance performance, but actively participate in the various tableaux that punctuate the piece–loosely structured miniatures. the show gets underway with a, of course, with z the last to take his leave. in between, the letters in this alphabet book embody a plethora of words, meanings, emotions and tones of voice. – from the shenkman arts centre website tickets are available at $20 each for adults and $15 for kids, but a family of four can be purchased at a discount. the performance is recommend for children aged 4 and up. every time i’ve gone to a stage performance with the kids at shenkman, i have always loved it (and the kids too!) for more information, or to purchase your tickets online, visit the shenkman arts centre website! rebecca 4 min read october 24, 2019 17 replies shop the ten thousand villages ottawa festival sale + enter to win around ottawa, shopping this post is in partnership with ten thousand villages. all opinions are my own i am so pleased to welcome back as an advertiser ten thousand villages ottawa, although if you have been following me for some time, you know that my relationship with ten thousand villages is as a customer first, and blog partner second. keep reading until the bottom of this post for your chance to win a $50 gift card! i have long shopped at ten thousand villages ottawa (you’ll find them in westboro) for gifts, stocking stuffers, chocolate, coffee and food treats, and even jewellery for myself. each year in november, they host a festival sale at the ottawa mennonite church (on kilborn) and every weekend (fridays and saturdays)) guests can shop the sale! i want you to mark your calendars for november as the sale returns each weekend (visit their facebook page to sign up for reminders). it’s also important to note, that ten thousand villages always pays their artisans first, so even if you see an item on sale, the artisan and maker have already been paid, the sale price doesn’t affect them. this social enterprise model is one that i love supporting. ten thousand villages volunteers and staff have been working hard to plan for another amazing festival sale year. if you aren’t sure about all of the amazing, fair-trade, ethically made (and paid for) items that could be at the sale, i’ve rounded up a list of amazing products to be on the look for – for yourself, the kids, or for gifts during the holidays. here are some items that i think you’ll love jewellery i’m cheating here but not being more specific but frankly, i love so much of their jewellery. you can find stylish, on-trend and ethical jewellery that you’ll love at ten thousand villages – like earrings, necklaces and bracelets. (hint hint andy) this necklace is on sale! i love it! these earrings are only $24 scarves there is always an amazing selection of scarves and they make such beautiful gifts. you’ll find ones with patterns, different materials, beautiful florals and even on-trend colours like this mustard yellow. mustard yellow scarf love these colours! christmas items i have to admit, i’ve gotten quite a few pieces of holiday decor at the festival sale over the years. they are unique, beautiful with my home decor and really well priced christmas decor! stocking stuffers whether you are shopping for the kids (and want to grab divine gold coins, or a mini game for their stocking) or your partner, you’ll find adorable and special stocking stuffers at ten thousand villages. beaver coin purse home decor whether you are in the market for a stylish rug, or something to improve your #shelfie game, i love the decor items from ten thousand villages. be sure to keep an eye out for their gorgeous baskets and unique item like this photo frame – just add a photo of your kiddos and it’s the perfect gift for grandma! i love this rug! it’s 2 feet by 3 ft coffee, tea and baking items i love a dark roast coffee (whole beans so andy can grind them fresh! ha!) and the options at ten thousand villages are perfect for the coffee lover on your list. but there’s not only fair trade and ethical coffee to add into your pantry. the level ground tea is perfect for any tea lover (andy and i are obsessed with the early grey) and i’m a personal fan of the dried fruit. the kids love (and i mean love) the camino hot chocolate powder and the dried coconut is perfect for baking. coffee! hot chocolate from camino the ten thousand villages festival sale in ottawa takes place every weekend (fridays, 3 pm – 8 pm and saturdays, 10 am – 4 pm) all through november. you don’t want to miss this! grab special gifts, new holiday decor, or home items you’ve been trying to spot. for more details, visit the ten thousand villages ottawa facebook page and look under the events tab! enter to win! want to win a $50 gift certificate to ten thousand villages ottawa so you can grab a few of these items at the sale? simply leave a comment below and let me know what you want to shop for at the festival sale this year! the giveaway is open to ottawa area residents. one entry per person. giveaway closes on wednesday, october 30 at 5 pm est. rebecca 1 min read october 22, 2019 no reply halloween with the city of ottawa (and trick or or swim or skate!) around ottawa this post is in partnership with the city of ottawa halloween is just around the corner and i have two things i wanted to share with you in partnership with the city of ottawa. the first is that their popular trick or swim or skate program is back! you can purchase tickets to hand out on halloween (these make excellent non-candy, allergy-safe treats!) which entitle a child to a free public skate at one of the area ice rinks or a free swim at one of the listed public pools! you can purchase your ticket booklets at a variety of community centres. visit their website for more details. the second thing i wanted to share is that once again, the city of ottawa is hosting a variety of halloween events for families across the city, most of which are happening the last weekend in october (just before halloween!) here is a sample of some of those community events – find one in your area, dress the kiddos up and enjoy some affordable family fun that’s all treat and no trick! will you be attending a halloween event with the kids? rebecca 2 min read october 11, 2019 no reply what to do for thanksgiving weekend in ottawa around ottawa if you have time in between thanksgiving meal prep or simply want to explore the beauty around the ottawa area during thanksgiving weekend, there are a few places you can go to enjoy the fall colours and have some fun. not able to head out and about? i’ll be a bit of a homebody around here as we welcome guests for dinner so i get it. instead, here are some fun activities to do with the kids at home! ready to make plans in the ottawa area with the kids this long weekend? here some ideas! thanksgiving weekend activities around ottawa pumpkin inferno at upper canada village we still haven’t been (can you believe that?) but it looks amazing. thousands of decorated pumpkins are sure to impress at upper canada village! saunders farm we had a blast a couple of weeks ago (and i’m a blog partner with them this year which means i have discount codes for you!) but there’s something fun about heading to the pumpkin patch! read more about our visit in this post. proulx farm this has usually been our pd day tradition, but we changed it up this year. it’s located in ottawa’s east end and there are mazes, slides and a not-so-spooky wagon ride to go on! parc omega it’s a favourite place to go for us and the colours this time of year will surely impress. it’s about a 50 minute drive from ottawa but you’ll see all the fall colours along the way. there are walk ways to enjoy, and of course the kids always love feeding carrots to the animals! wakefield and chelsea. grab some baked goods and take a walk through the cute town, then drive to chelsea and maybe enjoy the colours of gatineau park and the ice cream at la cigale! almonte we love taking a day trip to almonte. i’ll be sure to share more on the blog soon, but trust me, it’s worth the drive to shop, eat and explore this quaint village! happy thanksgiving! rebecca 2 min read september 17, 2019 1 reply go underground at the diefenbunker museum around ottawa have you been to the diefenbunker: canada’s cold war museum before? it’s fascinating, historic and another ottawa must-see. years ago, when my son was about seven, we finally visited the diefenbunker for the first time and we continue to go back and learn something new every time. the cold war era museum is west of ottawa in carp and my history loving son was the one who prompted us to check it out originally (although we had been interested before, it just never happened). he enjoyed that visit so much, it was where he wanted to go later in the year for his birthday too. i had a mix of feelings – while i completely appreciate the historic snapshot in time, and learning about a period that i hadn’t studied much (the cold war), i couldn’t help but have an eerie feeling as we descended into the bunker. what must it have been like to live in a time when these bunkers were being created? the museum is absolutely worth visiting because there are so many conversations to come after and so much to learn. kids of all ages will discover something that will spark their interest. as they pretend to be spies, or ask questions about the artifacts, everyone will have a unique experience. recently, at the end of the school year, my son’s class went on a field trip to the museum. it was a great place to bring a group of 12 year olds because their questions were so interesting! tip: teachers, plan your field trip to the diefenbunker! the museum is a great place to visit year round and if you keep up with their social media accounts or website, you’ll see that they often host special events. these holiday events are extremely popular and sometimes an rsvp ticket is required so don’t miss out by waiting to long to secure your space! event alert! toddler’s halloween hunt for those who seek scary thrills, they also have a zombie experience during the halloween season. yikes! in addition, you can host your child’s birthday party at the diefenbunker, or sign them up for special camps during the summer months. visit their website for more information about how and when to visit the deifenbunker: canada’s cold war museum! older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.