content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search our top 10 favorite posts of the decade authors: megan leap content director here at convince & convert. follow megan on twitter @meganleap. view all posts posted under: digital marketing jay baer started the convince & convert blog back in 2008, and every year we post a top 10 list of our most popular posts of the year. but for 2020, we’re bringing you our favorite posts of the decade. some are visitor favorites. others are team member favorites. dive in now as we celebrate 10+ years of marketing content: my biggest mistakes in 10 years as an entrepreneur to celebrate convince & convert’s 10 year anniversary in 2018, founder jay baer revealed the 10 biggest lessons he learned while leading the company. while this post doesn’t receive many organic visits these days (it was tricky to optimize for seo), it did get a ton of feedback, shares and engagement when we originally posted it. it’s worth a read — for sure! originally published: june 1, 2018 how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) a fan favorite, we recently refreshed this popular post in early 2019 with a video, new downloadable template and updated advice—and it jumped in the rankings and receives thousands of visitors each month. and for good reason — the advice is useful and actionable. originally published: january 6, 2014 updated: february 2, 2019 the time i spent the world series in handcuffs we take the ability to get real-time answers, real-time help and real-time apologies for granted, because they are the norm today. but it wasn’t the norm in 2001 – the year the diamondbacks won it all, and jay spent 4 innings in handcuffs. our very own kelly santina suggested this post be added to the list, and i suggest you read it too. originally published: october 26, 2014 how to create a social media strategy in 7 steps in terms of page views since january 2010, this post is #1, generating more than 600,000 page views since it was first published in 2013. we’ve updated it and added a downloadable template, and it’s still going strong — the post is one of our top 10 most popular. originally published: january 27, 2013 updated: march 27, 2019 don’t be scared, be prepared: how to manage a social media crisis jay originally wrote this post based on a presentation back in 2014, and our very own lauren teague updated it in november 2018. lauren is an expert in social media crisis preparation and management, and this post continues to inform visitors and clients. keep this one handy as you update your social media crisis plan for 2020. originally published: april 13, 2014 updated: november 4, 2019 how to fight back against negative customer ratings and reviews before jay published hug your haters, he published this post on handling negative reviews. solid advice that’s still relevant today. originally published: november 4, 2015 how to create a content marketing strategy in 7 easy steps another classic, evergreen post, jay wrote the original in 2014, and c&c content strategy experts anna hrach and jenny magic updated the post in 2019. still going strong over 4 years later, this post is popular with google visitors and our email readers. it includes a handy, downloadable template too. originally published: october 12, 2014 updated: june 24, 2019 why done is better than perfect is now a broken and unworkable philosophy this post killed it in our weekly newsletter — some of our highest opens and ctrs ever! the subject line was “sheryl sandberg is totally wrong about this”. people must really love to hate sheryl sandberg or they just really love our weekly newsletter. i’d like to think it’s the latter. but really, this is a fantastic post from jay that explains when you follow the “done is better than perfect” philosophy, you sacrifice customer experience for speed. originally published: february 27, 2019 5 ways to develop a unique selling proposition it’s always good to go back to the basics. this post on unique selling propositions has been a fan favorite since 2013. originally published: december 3, 2013 the 5 types of talk triggers [infographic] in conjunction with the release of the book, talk triggers, jay created this nifty infographic on the 5 types of talk triggers. it includes stats, research and the five ways you can get your customers talking about you with a talk trigger. originally published: october 3, 2018 while you're here get our best tips. join the smartest marketers who receive our weekly update. article continues while you're here other top articles content marketing 4 higher education content marketing examples that any school can implement zontee hou social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 lauren teague content marketing, greatest hits how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) anna hrach and jamie griffiths article continues who have we helped? who have we helped? we work to double your digital and we've done that for some of the best companies in the world. find out how we have helped organizations from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands. find out more want more great content like this? a weekly dose of the trends and insights you need to keep you on top, from jay baer at convince & convert. in each week’s email, jay will recap what happened in digital, what trends are important for marketers to watch, plus some fun surprises that you’ll just have to sign up to see! subscribe to our newsletter or are you looking to subscribe to one of our podcasts how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept