transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support our work participate in sft’s hard-hitting campaigns to free political prisoners, stop china’s destructive infrastructure projects in tibet, and get government leaders worldwide to take action for tibet. together we can raise the stakes of occupying tibet for the chinese government, until tibet is free. campaigns update: after nearly 10 months of campaigning, tibetans and tibet campaigners are buoyed by the news that google publicly confirmed, at its shareholders’ meeting in june of 2019, that there are “no plans to offer a search engine in china.” this confirmation came after sundar pichai, google’s ceo, stated the previous weekend that a ‘censorship free internet’ would be an important condition for them to operate in china. take action now! confucius institute threatens academic freedom and free speech. it is controlled by the chinese government, and a central part of its soft power plan to improve the global view of china’s authoritarian system. confucius institutes aim to censor and silence discussions on important political and human rights issues like tibet, east turkestan, taiwan, falun gong and tiananmen square. take action now! tibetan shopkeeper, tashi wangchuk, 31, was detained on january 27, 2016, after appearing in a new york times video in which he advocated for the rights of tibetans to learn and study in their mother tongue. on may 22, 2018, he was sentenced to five years in prison for the charge of “inciting separatism.” take action now! after the dalai lama, the panchen lama is one of the highest tibetan spiritual leaders. in 1995 chinese officials kidnapped him at the young age of 6. more than two decades later, tibetans continue to demand for the panchen lama to be released and returned to the people of tibet. china claims he is living a normal life but they refuse anyone access to him. take action now! nearly 2 billion people in asia are dependent on tibet’s rivers. under chinese occupation, tibet’s rivers are being polluted, dammed and diverted with dire consequences for those living in the downstream countries. take action now! commemorative dates every country marks significant historical dates in its founding as a nation. regardless of its current political status, tibet is no exception and students for a free tibet has set aside february 13th as an important day to commemorate tibet’s independent past. in occupied countries, observing independence day is a powerful expression of a people’s desire for freedom. find out more on 10 march 1959, tens of thousands of tibetans took to the streets of lhasa, tibet’s capital, rising up against china’s illegal invasion and occupation of their homeland. every year thousands of tibetans and their supporters take to the streets across the world to mark the anniversary of tibetan national uprising day. find out more trainings and conferences sft holds several regional conferences each year. these 2-3 days trainings give participants an overview of the basic principles of grassroots organizing, non-violent direct action and strategic planning. conferences are also a great way for our members to connect with other sft chapters in their region, and to plan for the year ahead. find out more free tibet! action camp is a week-long intensive training in the skills and strategies of nonviolent action and grassroots organizing for the current and future leaders of the movement for tibetan independence. camp will give you the skills to be a leader in the movement to free tibet, and give you the energy to keep doing it for the next ten years! find out more students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×