subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop our team you’d be surprised how much goes on behind the scenes of a food blog. there’s lots (and lots) of emails, recipe development, video production, social media scheduling, and more. our team helps keep it all running smoothly. (psssst: meet our team at food blogger pro here!) lindsay lindsay is the voice, author, and creator behind pinch of yum. she develops recipes and writes content for the blog and on instagram. the little blog that started as her casual hobby for nights and weekends while working as a teacher has now grown into a full-fledged business. she lives in minnesota with her husband bjork, dog sage, and daughter solvi. bjork bjork is the chief tech consultant / business advisor / taste tester at pinch of yum. day-to-day, you’ll mostly see him around food blogger pro, wp tasty, and nutrifox, as well as hosting the food blogger pro podcast. bjork is also husband to lindsay, dad to solvi, and lives in minnesota with their dog sage. he can usually be found with a coffee in hand. jenna jenna is the communications manager at pinch of yum. she manages much of the day-to-day communication with readers and brands – on and off the blog. you can find her answering recipe questions on posts, helping readers with ebook purchases, coordinating partnership details with brands, and other various behind-the-scenes projects. jenna lives in minnesota with her husband. abby abby is the social media manager at pinch of yum. she develops our social media strategy, develops content for posts, and tracks all our analytics/reporting. she also works alongside our teams at food blogger pro, wp tasty, and nutrifox to share fun, inspiring content and connect with members and customers. a blogger herself, abby is the author and creator of heart of a baker. emily emily is the video specialist at pinch of yum. she develops, films, and edits all of our recipe videos that you see here on the blog and on instagram. she also works alongside our food blogger pro team as our resident video expert, answering questions on the forum and live q&as. emily hails from northwest ohio and also writes, photographs, and manages her blog, jelly toast. sage sage is our furry coworker and official poy team mascot. she likes treats, naps at the studio, and is just the absolute best. you can learn more about sage here. if you have a question or want to get in touch with anyone on our team, contact us here! hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. popular posts dinner baked mozzarella chicken rolls vegetarian vegan crunchwrap supreme quick and easy miracle no knead bread vegetarian instant pot wild rice soup blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest