nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop our new patreon!!! posted: 03/18/20 | march 18th, 2020 since mid-february, the coronavirus has spread uncontrollably around the world. many countries are on complete lockdown. people are quarantined in their homes. we have an unprecedented shutdown of human movement around the world. this is a “black swan” event, an unpredictable turn of events that will undoubtedly change the world. it’s going to leave a mark on society and reshape how we interact, work, and conduct ourselves (maybe people will finally start washing their hands more). one of the (many) direct consequences of this rapid spread to pandemic levels is that it has shut down the entire travel industry, one that relies specifically on the movement of people to exist. right now, no one should travel. we need to flatten the curve, reduce the transmission of this disease, and ensure that we do not overwhelm our healthcare systems. no country can afford to repeat italy’s experience. we must all do our part, no matter how hard it is. the world will be waiting for us when this is all over. like everyone else in travel, we here have been hit really hard. i know it doesn’t always seem like it but this website is not just me. we have 5 staff (one with two kids) as well as freelancers we hire and pay. i’m not just sitting on a small stack of money asking for more. like everyone else in the industry, we are a small business trying to keep the lights on, pay our freelancers, bills, and employee salaries. we turn to you, our beloved community, especially as a number of you have asked how you can support the site during this time of uncertainty. we had been working on this for some time and moving towards more community related events and projects and this only spurred us to do it quicker. today, we are launching a patreon! a patreon is a members-only subscription service where you’ll get exclusive perks and content, such as: monthly q&as signed books access to all our events planning calls with me calls with the team postcards private instagram postings and blog posts this is a way to get more out of your “nomadic matt experience”. you’ll get behind-the-scenes access and content exclusive to you every month. plenty of this site will remain free and open to everyone. but, if you want to get more from the community and the website, this is how you can do it. just go to our new patreon page, pick your subscription level, and you’re in! we’ll start sending messages and arranging everything next week. (and yes, we’ll keep this going even after the crisis has subsided.) situations like this make you look at things differently. we were already moving toward a more community-centric model with our events. the coronavirus is just expediting that process, and this new membership program is the next phase of that. the team and i really appreciate anything you can do to help us ride out the storm. we’re going keep trucking on and creating content that you can use for when we can travel again. thank you so much for everything and for helping us get through this weird period! – nomadic matt book your trip: logistical tips and tricks book your flight find a cheap flight by using skyscanner or momondo. they are my two favorite search engines, because they search websites and airlines around the globe so you always know no stone is being left unturned. book your accommodation you can book your hostel with hostelworld as they have the largest inventory. if you want to stay somewhere other than a hostel, use booking.com, as they consistently return the cheapest rates for guesthouses and hotels. i use them all the time. don’t forget travel insurance travel insurance will protect you against illness, injury, theft, and cancellations. it’s comprehensive protection in case anything goes wrong. i never go on a trip without it, as i’ve had to use it many times in the past. i’ve been using world nomads for ten years. my favorite companies that offer the best service and value are: world nomads (for everyone below 70) insure my trip (for those 70 and over) looking for the best companies to save money with? check out my resource page for the best companies to use when you travel! i list all those i use — and they’ll save you time and money too! published: march 18, 2020 categories africa airlines america asia australia blogging tips books canada caribbean central america couples travel eco-tourism europe family travel female travel flyte interviews lgbt travel middle east new zealand photography points & miles random musings south america travel advice travel gear travel tips my new memoir is out!! my other awesome books want to share your tips and advice? got questions? visit the community forum to ask questions, get answers, meet people, and share your tips! disclosure: please note that some of the links above may be affiliate links, and at no additional cost to you, i earn a commission if you make a purchase. i recommend only products and companies i use and the income goes to keeping the site community supported and ad free. facebook twitter pinterest email related posts reader survey results: what we’re changing this year! want to write for nomadic matt? here’s how! there are 15 comments lisa porter march 18, 2020 at 4:32 pm good luck matthew. reply barun mishra march 18, 2020 at 7:27 pm hi matt! long time lurker here and i live in japan and i had a flight to osaka in couple of hours. the flight tickets and everything was so cheap and yet i was feeling very conflicted traveling at a time like this. thanks to your post i was able to make the right decision and cancel it just before i was about to head off to the airport. please take care! reply carol march 18, 2020 at 8:14 pm thanks for sharing your story, thanks for isolating yourself, rest and take care of yourself, reply jose march 19, 2020 at 11:30 am hi matt, i am sorry to hear you have coronavirus. that must suck! 🙁 one thing i am a bit confused about though is that last year i saw articles your wrote where you said you make 7 figures from your blog and now your asking for donations? that just seems weird to me… and you do realize that practically everyone is hurting financially right now with millions of jobs being lost? you’re not the only one affected by this. anyway, i appreciate your website but i am just shocked that you would be asking for donation at this delicate time in the world. jose reply rodrigo march 19, 2020 at 2:21 pm where did matt say he had coronavirus? but you’re right, this is not a good look for matt. he is completely out of touch with reality. reply salim march 19, 2020 at 11:32 pm he sent an email. when/where did he state he was getting over a million just on this? “inquiring minds wanna know”.. reply salim march 19, 2020 at 11:35 pm “jose, can you see?”-) [for the non-americans, this is a mirthy take on the star spangled banner;-] (full disclosure, i’m latino also;-) kidding aside, where/when did matt stated about the ‘7 figures’? you wanna make a serious allegation, so have to be prepared to back it up.. reply kevin march 20, 2020 at 2:07 am the business might generate 7 figures in revenue but that is not the same as profit. if they also spend 7 figures (he has like 5 staff members, for example) then it’s possible to make 7 figures but generate little or no profit. and patreon is not for donations. it’s not a go fund me type platform. it’s a platform for creators to share content and get support directly from their community. reply nomadicmatt march 20, 2020 at 11:38 am i know it doesn’t always seem like it but this website is not just me. we have 5 staff (one with two kids) as well as freelancers we hire and pay. i’m not just sitting on a small stack of money asking for more. like everyone else in the industry, we are a small business trying to keep the lights on. like everyone else, we don’t keep a lot of cash around. it gets reinvested in our business, charity, and employees. we have zero income. pretty soon, we too will be the ones that will end up unemployed too. reply kathy sadler march 20, 2020 at 3:02 pm i love nomadic matt and have bought a couple of his books and have learned so much about inexpensive ways to travel on my tight , tight budget and am sorry he is laid up with the virus! thank you, matt, from kathy in canada! ? reply jeroen vogel march 22, 2020 at 7:14 pm is it weird, matt, that people respond this way? the tone of this article is one in which a business owner, who elsewhere boasts about his mouthwatering revenue, now seeks financial help in a time where millions are a struggling. there’s nothing wrong with setting up a patreon account, but it might’ve been better to present it as an option for your readers to get more out of their ‘nomadic matt experience.’ it’s really just the tone of this article, victimizing oneself, that’s the problem. you might want to change that. reply nomadicmatt march 23, 2020 at 12:30 pm while revenue does not equal income, that is fair criticism on the wording of the post. i’ll give it a reread. reply jeroen march 25, 2020 at 4:28 am it’s up to you what you do with it. being dutch, my own wording in english comes across harsher than its meant to. i mean well, constructively. you’re a lot braver than i am: i feel a lot more secure being on a payroll beside my (dutch) travel writing. reply dorsey march 23, 2020 at 9:12 am matt, i appreciate the content as i am in the beginning stages of really traveling more. for the concerned citizens who think it’s absurd for matt to ask for donations, stay off his page! is it now ok for us to enjoy everything without cost?! i will be donating! matt, is a blessing to travelers all around this world. godspeed matt! reply matt march 23, 2020 at 3:56 pm hey matt, great initiative, i hope it works out! looking into this right now, as your patreon is very affordable and offers perks! take care, matt reply leave a comment cancel reply by posting a comment, you agree to our community friendly, anti-spam comment policy that can be found here. get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site