our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design - smartsites think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 web design & dev our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design march 2, 2020march 2, 2020 ashley moffitt senior project manager if you have embarked on a website design project with us, whether it’s designing a new website or an old website revamp, we are sure that you want to get it right as much as we do. one of the ways of ensuring successful results is to share your thoughts with the project manager. let’s take a look at how you can give constructive feedback that can help our team design the dream website you have in mind. be clear and concise one of the most important things about giving feedback is being clear and concise. if you are vague, it makes it hard for people to know what action to take. for example, if you were to say, “i don’t like the design”, this is not a productive comment because the designer will not know which part of the design needs to be changed. an example of better feedback would be “i don’t like the colors chosen for this design, along with the use of circles. i would much rather have darker shades of blue, and for us to use squares or rectangles instead.” this feedback is great because not only is it clear what is not liked but as a bonus, a suggestion is provided on what can be changed to make it better is offered. another great tool to be clear and concise when it comes to giving feedback is to provide screenshots for what parts of the design you may like or dislike. this minimizes the chance of confusion as to what you are referring to when you have a visual aid. google chrome has an extension that we frequently use which is called “awesome screenshot” but there are also other browser tools or programs that can be used for similar functions. don’t wait to review designs until the end design is a lengthy process and it usually requires several revisions until we get to the perfect result. it is ideal that we receive feedback for the designs as soon as you receive them because this will set the team on the right track for future designs they will do for your project, and also because it saves time on both parts. sending design feedback as soon as possible is also crucial in order to avoid a bottleneck. especially with big websites, being responsive with feedback for design is extremely helpful for us – this way, once we move into development, we know that the site we will see at the end of the development process is exactly what you would like to see! give examples whenever possible our writers understand that there are multiple ways to get the same message across. each client, depending on their industry and project needs, has a different way that they want to convey content to a user. it is important to always have the client’s needs and wants in mind when writing content for their site. one of the best ways for our writers and for a project manager to understand what the client wants is to have the client provide examples whenever they can. there is always room for miscommunication between a project manager and a client, so having examples to reference is the best way to ensure we are understanding exactly what you are looking for, and make sure you are happy with what we are providing. add in good feedback when responding to designs, it is not just important to talk about what you don’t like but also what you do like. knowing your preferences can help us provide better revisions in the future and help us get a better feel on your style. please see below for an example: feedback without good feedback feedback with good feedback “i hate the bottom section, show me something else.” “i hate the bottom section, but i love the section above that because it appears more modern and has really cool circular shapes.” always think of your target audience throughout the process, it is crucial to think of your target audience first. as the end goal is to target users to perform an action, it is important to go through the design process as if you were in their shoes. ask yourself, what does my target audience like? as you are answering, you should find yourself responding along the lines of “i’m not sure our users will understand” instead of “i don’t like this”. think of how you want your brand to be perceived. for example, you personally might not like the color blue, however, it can actually portray a dependable, stable and consistent brand. by matching your design with how you want your brand perceived, this helps put your target audience first. when you stay objective with your feedback, this allows you to stay aligned with your goals. the bottom line giving feedback in a constructive way is always going to be a great tool to help shape your website design vision and aid our web design team in bringing your dream website to reality. also, feel free to reach out to your project managers if you are not sure if your feedback is adequate to help the website design team, because our project managers can always act as a second opinion to sift through your feedback! related posts is your wordpress blog taking too long to load? what you need to know about visual hierarchy pay attention to these google analytics components! making your addiction rehab website navigation-friendly get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: blog web design & dev our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect