transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support our history students for a free tibet (sft) was founded in new york city in 1994 by a group of tibetans and young students and supporters. the concept of sft was borne from the understanding of the critical role students and young people have played in freedom struggles throughout history. since that time, sft has grown into an international network of students and non-students in more than 35 countries. today, we have more than 650 high school, university and community chapters and four full-time staff at our headquarters in new york, and staff at our national offices in india and canada. sft has campaigned for and helped secure the safe release of shokjang and numerous other political prisoners, and led campaigns that have cost the chinese government billions of dollars. whenever chinese leaders visit other countries, whenever china hopes to solicit foreign funding for their genocidal projects in tibet, and whenever china tries to cover up the truth about tibet, sft is there! john hocevar, sft's first executive director, in front of the potala palace. students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×