statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr about statista› our research and content philosophy our research and content philosophy the data revolution has only just begun. today, more data is collected and made available than ever before. statista is your trustworthy and objective data partner that helps you keep an overview and turn data into information and insights. our mission is to enable our clients and customers to make the best decisions. to ensure this, over 200 experienced and well-versed statista research experts and analysts track the latest developments and current trends in over 170 markets and industries every day. our pool of experts is our and your greatest resource here, as we believe that only real people can extract meaningful and contextualized insights from an abundance of available data. throughout our whole data research, analysis, and publishing process, our irrevocable quality standards take precedence above everything: neutrality, transparency, and relevance. but, most importantly, we always keep in mind that your trust in us is at the core of our work. researcher and analysts 200+ experts global coverage 160+ countries content coverage 80,000+ topics our statista research department how we work quality as the key driver statista constantly conducts independent, objective, and insight-driven research using more than 22,500 sources. all sources are continuously curated for relevance and reliability, and we naturally provide full transparency about them. all content on the statista platform undergoes a tested multi-stage peer-review process prior to publication. all our market sizing and forecasts are based on the most up to date analytical measures and latest available data. always up to date and current statista proactively tracks the latest trends and developments in over 170 industries and markets by screening and evaluating thousands of external sources, reports, and databases. every day. for over 160 countries. our consumer and expert surveys provide insights into current consumer and industry trends that really matter. the global consumer survey alone provides up-to-date insights into consumption and media usage based on over 400,000 consumers. dedicated to insights and context our analyst team thrives on identifying patterns through a permanent, structured analysis of massive sets of raw data. our research experts’ main goal is to identify the underlying context in data to provide on-point insights. to facilitate insight, we reduce complexity: we prepare the data in a very structured, easily comprehensible way, allowing our customers to focus on the real issues–and make the right decisions. behind the scenes briony key, data partnership manager i am constantly screening the market for esteemed data partners in order to source the most exclusive and valuable data for statista. ann-kathrin kohl, research manager when preparing consumer and expert surveys, i love putting myself in our clients’ mindset to understand what insights would be valuable to them. john elflein, research expert health & pharmaceuticals at statista we strive to provide relevant and accurate data that can assist our customers from a multitude of fields and levels of expertise. amna puri-mirza, research expert middle east, north africa my work at statista taught me to really understand data and facts – a value i apply for our customers every day. petar sapun, analyst as statista grows, so does the amount of data used in our market models, making our analyses ever more detailed and comprehensive. james cherowbrier, research expert financial services the most thrilling thing for me is to work out the dynamics and trends within my industry, especially how digitalization is challenging everything. become part of statista come work with us join our team and help us to extend and improve our daily growing database with statistics and facts. partner up with us we invite you to present your data to a larger audience. become a data partner with us. we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr