see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login join 10,000+ businesses that use help scout because customer experience comes first. trello angellist treehouse basecamp zapier convertkit buffer litmus olark vox pocket kinhr “we chose help scout because their support is really great. it's in line with our values and how we want support to be for our customers.” watch their story the onboarding takes literally 5 minutes, maybe 10. that matters. it’s kind of like a baton race when you’re growing quickly — the handover needs to be seamless." emmanuel quartey head of growth read their story using the help scout & jira integration helps panorama education's client success, product and engineering teams stay on the same page. watch their story asap accounting & payroll used docs to create a help center to store and update over 250 articles: from best practices to content on how to build a business in colorado. read & watch their story with 13 users across five mailboxes, the threadless team uses help scout's workflow feature to maximizing efficiency and ownership. read & watch their story grubhub mapbox carta reddit avant-credit postmark blue-bottle nectar “the simplicity of help scout makes the work so much easier. it's not complicated by thousands of plugins or tabs — it's just you and the customer solving a problem.” watch their story using help scout's docs knowledge base makes it easy for our students to find answers and discover resources." rachel korb community & ops manager read their story the senneca team moved from outlook to help scout, and can now efficiently keep more than 50 users across 5 locations on the same page. read & watch their story for mail2, help scout has become resource that feels like a part of the team — as opposed to a product they have to use. read their story the mixmax team looked to help scout’s productivity report and found data points to make decisions about office hours and staffing. read their story salsify naborly general-assembly abacus mass-challenge crossfit scrypt sensu “having the ability to know exactly how we're performing, and having it laid out in a straightforward, visual way makes things really simple for us.” watch their story the spoton team was up-and-running on help scout within a week. and, best of all: they didn’t have to sacrifice a human, personalized, customer support experience for a scalable solution. read their story before help scout, teamsnap was spending six figures annually on their customer support software. after switching to help scout, they consolidated all of that to one tool, at a price point of 12k/yr for unlimited users. read & watch their story “as a customer success manager working in salesforce, it's really helpful to be instantly caught up on any recent or outstanding support issues when nurturing a customer relationship. with the integration, i can quickly pull out support themes right from salesforce without having to dig around help scout.” charlotte cerf director of customer success | abacus learn about the salesforce integration “we love using workflows to assign conversations. it keeps our team organized, and ensures that there’s no confusion about who should be receiving what question. workflows also align with our value of ownership: because the conversation is automatically routed to the right person, teammates don’t have to wait to hear next steps.” brianne henderlong community experience director | threadless learn about workflows “@helpscout made our life real easy today! new clients and a streamlined support system made handling it all much easier. :)” @web242ca view more twitter love “when a customer emails in, the magento integration displays order history and customer lifetime value. it’s extremely helpful to be able to see the most recent order, because it’s usually what they have a question about. having that context readily available is a huge plus.” erica richie ceo | stagespot learn about the magento integration “if you’re a one-man team…gmail, stars and folders work well. the second you’re above two people — it’s time to move from gmail to help scout. it’s the best tool for support requests” jonathan kennedy owner | heycarson.com & storetasker.com learn more about moving from gmail “rarely have i experienced a free-trial onboarding process that was as supportive, informative, + awesome as with @helpscout. huge shout out!” @syncedwithdara view more twitter love “the jira integration helped us streamline communication between our client success and our product and engineering teams - and communicate about everything from bugs to product feedback. most importantly, it's helped us keep our clients and end-users as the focus of our work.” kristin battaglini client success | panorama education learn more about the jira integration “wowzers, @helpscout is so awesome even if you aren't customer support. saves me loads of time as a dev when troubleshooting issues :-)” @jordammorgan10 view more twitter love “using the android app has made my life 10x easier. i can now respond to my customers even quicker, while i'm on the go. i love it!” donn felker founder | casterio learn more about the android app “the help scout + pipedrive integrations helps us close deals right within help scout. if the team needs further details, they can just click to go straight into the pipedrive record” brock jackson co-founder | calldrip how to sync help scout and pipedrive “the salesforce integration helps us keep all of our ducks in a row - from outbound sales activity to onboarding to customer service.” tim gusweiler co-founder | jerseywatch learn about the salesforce integration “managing your #helpdesk has never been easier thanks to @helpscout, an amazing tool for any #smb! #custserv” @smoochlabs view more twitter love “the salesforce integration has been great! it looks nice in salesforce, and pulls in old help scout conversations automatically. set-up was easy — and when we did need support, the help scout team was responsive and effective.” alyssa ciorciari user support manager | wayup learn about the salesforce integration “the keyboard shortcuts in @helpscout are so spot on.” @chris-bowler view more twitter love “from mobile improvements, to ‘following’ conversations, to auto-refreshing the pages (noticed this morning!) you guys keep adding things that make our jobs easier!” dan chelgren support manager | stretch internet see the latest product updates “@helpscout oh you! what would we do without you? hands down the best saas tool we use, as voted for by all our staff!” @trader_supplies view more twitter love “help scout has given our team the ability to manage communications much more efficiently. while we were already satisfied with the features help scout offers, the android app has allowed us to be even more responsive while not being tied to a computer.” kevin meinholz enrollment & retention | university of wisconsin mba consortium learn more about the android app “i love that you can quickly plug-in and customize a saved reply when you’re responding to a customer. it’s the in-between when you’re answering a common question, but don’t necessarily need to point the customer to docs.” emily kinzig customer support | gonoodle learn more about saved replies “so excited for @blanklabel to be switching over to @helpscout today, really impressed with their dedication to customer service” @lifeofbi view more twitter love “the android app allows us to quickly handle incoming customer messages, whether it's with a quick reply or by assigning it to the right person, has allowed us to be even more responsive to our customers ... something we take great pride in.” thomas tenkely general manager | joe filter learn more about the android app see how grabcad uses help scout to create a memorable customer experience and build long-term relationships with nearly 4 million designers, engineers, and manufacturers. watch their story help scout has helped us reduce our workload by 50%, making our team twice as productive." carmel granahan customer success team leader read their story for tuft and needle, empathy and judgment are key for all employees. to maintain a habit of doing support, the team has every new hire use help scout to answer customer questions. read the blog post since implementing the help scout + pipedrive integration, calldrip has increased customer retention by 10 percent. read their story tattly insists on delighting customers and uses help scout to make providing memorable support as easy and fun as it should be. watch their story bu lemonade promgirl rent-like-a-champion easypost citymd bay-area-news yec get started with help scout a better experience for your customers, fewer headaches for your team. you'll be set up in minutes. get started have 25+ people on your team? try the company plan tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout