content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search our story we help you connect with and keep your customers convince & convert is an experienced, highly focused analysis and advisory firm that creates effective, best-in-class digital marketing and customer experience strategies for the world’s most iconic organizations. we aren’t one of those “digital agencies” looking to do all your marketing, soup to nuts including branding, tactics, and execution. we’re a strategic planning and operational roadmap consultancy that uses extensive experience and deep research to give you a customized strategy and accompanying playbooks to guide your marketing and cx improvements over a ~ 18-month time horizon. we know you’re smart. you don’t need us to do your marketing for you. you just need to make sure you’re headed in the right direction, with the right plan, the right resources, the right measurement schema, and beyond. we can help. we’re not big, and that’s on purpose. in fact, we’re pretty small, so we can give you fully custom counsel and our very best thinking, each and every time. leading companies trust us because we provide sound recommendations in a straightforward, hype-free fashion at a reasonable cost, with no drama. nearly all of our clients already have in-house social/content teams and/or agencies. but because we don’t provide tactical implementation services, we don’t compete with your current vendors—we make them better. in fact, our current net promoter score is 78, higher than ritz-carlton. how we got here convince & convert was founded by jay baer in 2008. jay has advised more than 700 brands since getting started in online marketing in 1993. he is also the new york times best-selling author of six books, a hall of fame keynote speaker, and a 7th-generation entrepreneur. in addition to strategy consulting, the firm also runs a fast-growing education company that produces podcasts, a digital magazine, email, webinars, and white papers. convince & convert has been named to the inc. 5000 list that showcases the fastest growing companies in america. its social pros podcast, which jay co-hosts, was named best marketing podcast by the content marketing awards. we give you our best. always. our virtual and totally flat structure means there is no “junior” team. you get our very best every single day, and we guarantee you won’t find a more responsive, easier to work with strategy consultancy. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept