start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising mental strength health advertising published on march 27, 2020 overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts daina worrall lawyer, c. hypnotherapist and rtt therapist - personal development & mental health read full profile share pin it tweet share email it’s your first day on the job. you’re at a meeting of 40+ colleagues. “listen up every one, here’s our newest team member!” all eyes turn to you. “why don’t you introduce yourself and tell us all an interesting fact about you?” instant panic. adrenaline levels? 11/10. all words gone, replaced by sub-saharan dry mouth. blushing, trembling or total amnesia…sound familiar? advertising you’re not alone. in fact, you’re in the majority. this is just one of the many common types of anxiety we can experience. whether it’s social gatherings you’ve talked yourself out of, holding back at work in fear of judgement, or catastrophizing situations before they happen, anxiety can manifest itself in different ways for all of us. if this is a daily battle for you — an exhausting and defeating inner battle that’s preventing you from truly living authentically and being in the moment — then you should be applauded. you’re already ahead of the pack because you’ve made that conscious decision to find out what anxiety is and how to overcome it. rest assured, you’re going to find out. table of contents what you need to know about anxiety the subconscious mind: a friend or foe? how did i learn anxiety? mindset shifts to overcome anxiety final thoughts more tips on overcoming fear and anxiety what you need to know about anxiety did you know that nearly 300 million people[1] suffer from anxiety in some form? these feelings of worry, nervousness, or unease that arise in reaction to (or in anticipation of) something painful or uncertain are, sadly, “normal” feelings to experience. it may be normal because many people experience it, but it’s not something you were born with (although there are some genetic tendencies that can mean you’re more prone to it). it’s actually something your brain has learned how to do. have you ever seen an anxious or self-conscious baby? coming out of the womb worrying if they sound weird or look funny? so you see, anxiety is something that we’ve learned to do. it’s “normal” because a lot of us have learned it. how? glad you asked… advertising the subconscious mind: a friend or foe? to understand how anxiety can be “learned,” it’s crucial to understand that anxiety isn’t something that happens on a conscious level. it begins in the subconscious mind. it’s the reason you can’t just switch the anxiety off (as much as you want to!) because it’s not a conscious process. the distinction between the conscious and subconscious was effectively illustrated by sigmund freud’s[2] iceberg analogy. he likened the tip of the iceberg – the bit that sits above the water – to the conscious mind. it’s the bit we can “see,” and it’s the smaller of the two. it’s the least informed and it helps you talk, think, move, and act in daily interactions. for example, if you’re hungry or if you trip and hurt yourself, your conscious mind sends the signal to get food or find painkillers. then there’s the rest of the iceberg, the part that’s submerged underwater – seemingly invisible – and crucial to the structure as a whole. this, freud said, represents the subconscious mind. it holds your memories, feelings, and habits and controls your emotions. it can learn things like how to create anxious feelings because it’s malleable, meaning it can change and be influenced by our life experiences. scientists call this phenomenon neuroplasticity[3]. “the idea that the brain can change its own structure and function through thought and activity is, i believe, the most important alteration in our view of the brain since we first sketched out its basic anatomy and the workings of its basic component, the neuron.”[4] from the time you were born to the age you are now, your mind has been changing and forming new neurological patterns. whether they are good or bad depends on what you’ve been through. panic attacks, depression, and suicide are all things that happen when your subconscious has taken on some pretty destructive thought patterns, telling you that you’re not good enough, you don’t deserve to be here, or you can never be “fixed.” this is because, as human beings, our subconscious minds[5] are programmed to lead us away from pain and toward pleasure. it’s human instinct, and it likes what’s familiar to it. moments of impact in our life cause us to make new patterns or break old ones, but ultimately the longer you do or think something, the more it just feels natural and begins to happen automatically. how did i learn anxiety? when it comes to anxiety, your subconscious mind learned to cause feelings of worry, unease, and stress when a specific trigger was pulled. it’s different for all of us, but if your trigger is public speaking, for example, your automatic reaction after being told about it could be a knotted stomach, dread, and images of you failing or looking nervous. and those images are played over and over again. advertising take a moment and think back to a time in your life — your first ever memory of feeling anxious, scared, or judged in some way. you might struggle to think of this consciously if it’s a particularly painful memory. that’s something the conscious mind has the power to do (not the subconscious). it can prevent the immediate recall of painful memories so that you don’t have to feel that pain again. however, sometimes we need to address them, but it’s more effective to do so in a trance-like state during mediation or hypnosis, so you can really remove those conscious limitations…because your subconscious remembers everything. it remembers being bullied at school. it remembers when you struggled to make friends. it remembers that traumatic car accident. whatever it might be, your subconscious filed that memory along with the pain associated with it, and it’ll do anything it can to stop you from feeling that pain again. how does it do that? it makes you feel anxious, of course! the more anxious you feel, the more likely you’ll refrain from facing that pain again. anxiety is actually trying to help you, but if you’re still reading, then chances are anxiety is not doing anything good for you now. it’s preventing you from living a happy and free life where you can make friends easily, or get up and speak confidently, or feel relaxed in everyday situations, etc. knowing all you know now, you’re well on the road to overcoming fear and anxiety. the next step is putting it all in action. mindset shifts to overcome anxiety first, to learn how to overcome fear and anxiety, you need to reflect on some situations that might have led your subconscious mind to form this understanding – everyone’s different, and your brain has created this reaction for you solely because of something it heard, saw, or felt in the past. if you really struggle with this part, therapists (particularly hypnotherapists who specialize in communicating with the subconscious mind), can lend a hand here. then, in order to change the pattern, you need to change it at a subconscious level – by shifting your mindset – and there are few ways you can do this. 1. hypnosis one of the most effective ways to reprogram your subconscious mind is through hypnosis. it’s a trance-like state, similar to meditation, where you can dialogue with your subconscious mind and give it positive suggestions. during hypnosis, your brain waves shift from beta to alpha, meaning your subconscious mind is open and willing to listen to new thoughts and ideas. hypnosis is not scary, and it’s not mind-control. it’s a direct way to talk to the subconscious, and it’s something you can do with a certified hypnotherapist or rtt therapist, or you can simply find the hundreds of free downloadable resources on the internet that can help you shift your mindset. advertising 2. creative visualization start meditating. ultimately, the more you practice calming yourself down, the better you’ll be at it. visualize yourself in the state in which you’d like to be. see yourself living calmly, happily and confidently – see it in great detail. spend some time every day doing this with a good soundtrack and you’ll see that your thoughts and your mindset will begin to change. 3. change your language stop identifying with anxiety and fear. if you’ve ever said, “my anxiety,” “i’m an anxious person,” or “it’s just the way i am,” then you’re owning it. anxiety and fear are not who you are – it’s just something you do, and that’s ok. soon it’ll be something you used to do (i.e. say “i feel anxious sometimes” instead of “i’m an anxious person” or “i have anxiety”). 4. self-talk did you know that your mind will believe to be true anything you continually say to it? if you tell yourself every day that you’re bad at public speaking or you always get anxious at work, then guess what? that’s exactly what’s going to happen. whether you write it down or say it aloud every day, list out the attributes of the person you want to be and tell yourself every day, for as long as it takes, that you’re that person. you’ll see just how effective this is. when you identify the cause of anxiety and fear, it’s important to say thank you. speak to the anxiety: “i understand why you came into my life, but i know now that i attached the wrong meaning to [event], and i no longer need to believe that i’m [not good enough/different/a bad communicator]. today i’m deciding that i don’t need it anymore. anxiety no longer serves me.” final thoughts these are genuine, proven methods that not only reduce anxiety but will help you overcome it for good. your brain is malleable, and it can change. you just need to tell it how you want it and be gentle with yourself. you’re only human! more tips on overcoming fear and anxiety how to overcome fear and realize your potential (the ultimate guide) 5 simple steps to overcoming anxiety how to overcome anxiety and feel more at ease (part 1) featured photo credit: tim trad via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ our world in data: number with a mental or neurodevelopmental disorder by type, world, 2017 [2] ^ project gutenberg: a general introduction to psychoanalysis [3] ^ frontiers in psychology: consciousness, brain, neuroplasticity [4] ^ norman doige, m.d.: the brain that changes itself [5] ^ marisa peer: marisa peer’s rules of the mind share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to change habits by using your subconscious mind how to overcome anxiety and feel more at ease (part 1) what does anxiety feel like? (types and symptoms of the invisible killer) advertising advertising more by this author daina worrall lawyer, c. hypnotherapist and rtt therapist - personal development & mental health overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author daina worrall lawyer, c. hypnotherapist and rtt therapist - personal development & mental health overcome fear and anxiety with these 4 mindset shifts trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next 1 simple technique to visualize better 5 simple steps to overcoming anxiety 7-step self-hypnosis to boost self-esteem the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life advertising advertising lifestyle health advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. read full profile share pin it tweet share email when it comes to living long, genes aren’t everything. research has revealed a number of simple lifestyle changes you can make that could help to extend your life, and some of them may surprise you. so, how to live longer? here are 21 ways to help you live a long life 1. exercise it’s no secret that physical activity is good for you. exercise helps you maintain a healthy body weight and lowers your blood pressure, both of which contribute to heart health and a reduced risk of heart disease–the top worldwide cause of death. 2. drink in moderation i know you’re probably picturing a glass of red wine right now, but recent research suggests that indulging in one to three glasses of any type of alcohol every day may help to increase longevity.[1] studies have found that heavy drinkers as well as abstainers seem to have a higher risk of early mortality than moderate drinkers. 3. reduce stress in your life stress causes your body to release a hormone called cortisol. at high levels, this hormone can increase blood pressure and cause storage of abdominal fat, both of which can lead to an increased risk of heart disease. 4. watch less television a 2008 study found that people who watch six hours of television per day will likely die an average of 4.8 years earlier than those who don’t.[2] it also found that, after the age of 25, every hour of television watched decreases life expectancy by 22 minutes. advertising television promotes inactivity and disengagement from the world, both of which can shorten your lifespan. 5. eat less red meat red meat consumption is linked to an increased risk of heart disease and cancer.[3] swapping out your steaks for healthy proteins, like fish, may help to increase longevity. if you can’t stand the idea of a steak-free life, reducing your consumption to less than two to three servings a week can still incur health benefits. 6. don’t smoke this isn’t exactly a revelation. as you probably well know, smoking significantly increases your risk of cancer. 7. socialize studies suggest that having social relationships promotes longevity.[4] although scientists are unsure of the reasons behind this, they speculate that socializing leads to increased self esteem as well as peer pressure to maintain health. 8. eat foods rich in omega-3 fatty acids omega-3 fatty acids decrease the risk of heart disease[5] and perhaps even alzheimer’s disease.[6] salmon and walnuts are two of the best sources of omega-3s. advertising 9. be optimistic studies suggest that optimists are at a lower risk for heart disease and, generally, live longer than pessimists.[7] researchers speculate that optimists have a healthier approach to life in general–exercising more, socializing, and actively seeking out medical advice. thus, their risk of early mortality is lower. 10. own a pet having a furry-friend leads to decreased stress, increased immunity, and a lessened risk of heart disease.[8] depending on the type of pet, they can also motivate you to be more active. 11. drink coffee studies have found a link between coffee consumption and longer life.[9] although the reasons for this aren’t entirely clear, coffee’s high levels of antioxidants may play a role. remember, though, drowning your cup of joe in sugar and whipped cream could counter whatever health benefits it may hold. 12. eat less japan has the longest average lifespan in the world, and the longest lived of the japanese–the natives of the ryukyu islands–stop eating when they’re 80% full. limiting your calorie intake means lower overall stress on the body. 13. meditate meditation leads to stress reduction and lowered blood pressure.[10] research suggests that it could also increase the activity of an enzyme associated with longevity.[11] taking as little as 15 minutes a day to find your zen can have significant health benefits, and may even extend your life. advertising how to meditate? here’re 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners 14. maintain a healthy weight being overweight puts stress on your cardiovascular system, increasing your risk of heart disease.[12] it may also increase the risk of cancer.[13] maintaining a healthy weight is important for heart health and living a long and healthy life. 15. laugh often laughter reduces the levels of stress hormones, like cortisol, in your body. high levels of these hormones can weaken your immune system. 16. don’t spend too much time in the sun too much time in the sun can lead to an increased risk of skin cancer. however, sun exposure is an excellent way to increase levels of vitamin d, so soaking up a few rays–perhaps for around 15 minutes a day–can be healthy. the key is moderation. 17. cook your own food when you eat at restaurants, you surrender control over your diet. even salads tend to have a large number of additives, from sugar to saturated fats. eating at home will enable you to monitor your food intake and ensure a healthy diet. take a look at these 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go and start to cook your own food. advertising 18. eat mushrooms mushrooms are a central ingredient in dr. joel fuhrman’s gombs disease fighting diet. they boost the immune system and may even reduce the risk of cancer.[14] 19. floss flossing helps to stave off gum disease, which is linked to an increased risk of cancer.[15] 20. eat foods rich in antioxidants antioxidants fight against the harmful effects of free-radicals, toxins which can cause cell damage and an increased risk of disease when they accumulate in the body. berries, green tea and broccoli are three excellent sources of antioxidants. find out more antiosidants-rich foods here: 13 delicious antioxidant foods that are great for your health 21. have sex getting down and dirty two to three times a week can have significant health benefits. sex burns calories, decreases stress, improves sleep, and may even protect against heart disease.[16] it’s an easy and effective way to get exercise–so love long and prosper! more health tips powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness how to work towards a healthy life balance featured photo credit: sweethearts/patrick via flickr.com reference [1] ^ wiley online library: late‐life alcohol consumption and 20‐year mortality [2] ^ bmj journals: television viewing time and reduced life expectancy: a life table analysis [3] ^ arch intern med.: red meat consumption and mortality [4] ^ plos medicine: social relationships and mortality risk: a meta-analytic review [5] ^ jama: fish and omega-3 fatty acid intake and risk of coronary heart disease in women [6] ^ ncbi: effects of omega‐3 fatty acids on cognitive function with aging, dementia, and neurological diseases: summary [7] ^ mayo clinic proc: prediction of all-cause mortality by the minnesota multiphasic personality inventory optimism-pessimism scale scores: study of a college sample during a 40-year follow-up period. [8] ^ med hypotheses.: pet ownership protects against the risks and consequences of coronary heart disease. [9] ^ the new england journal of medicine: association of coffee drinking with total and cause-specific mortality [10] ^ american journal of hypertension: blood pressure response to transcendental meditation: a meta-analysis [11] ^ science direct: intensive meditation training, immune cell telomerase activity, and psychological mediators [12] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [13] ^ jama: the disease burden associated with overweight and obesity [14] ^ african journal of biotechnology: anti-cancer effect of polysaccharides isolated from higher basidiomycetes mushrooms [15] ^ science direct: periodontal disease, tooth loss, and cancer risk in male health professionals: a prospective cohort study [16] ^ aha journals: sexual activity and cardiovascular disease share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to work towards a healthy life balance powerful daily routine examples for a healthy and high-achieving you 14 healthy easy recipes for people on the go advertising advertising more by this author leanne louie leanne is a passionate writer who shares lifestyle tips on lifehack. how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life 5 life lessons from game of thrones 12 ways to live more in the moment 10 brain boosting foods you should be eating 7 habits of highly effective hobbits advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how do you meditate? 8 meditation techniques for complete beginners make these 17 health goals into daily habits for better overall wellness 8 surprising benefits of salmon (with recipe) 7 comics about periods that only women would understand about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.