search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. paddington 3 release date, cast, plot and everything you need to know more helpings of marmalade. by cameron k mcewan 14/02/2019 studiocanal one the most funny, heartwarming and loveable franchises to emerge in recent years is that of the big-screen version of michael bond's creation, paddington bear. the first film, simply titled paddington, scored almost $270 million at the global box office, while its sequel has already taken over $30 million in the uk alone. whilst paddington 2 was still in production, production company studiocanal announced that a third instalment with the marmalade sandwich loving bear was on their slate – paddington 3 is a go! and with director and writer paul king "keen" to return, fans of the bear have much to be excited about. here's what we know so far about the third paddington film. paddington 3 release date: when can we expect it? in nov 2017, david heyman told digital spy that the script for paddington 3 hadn't been started, though discussions about locations, ideas and scenes have begun. star ben whishaw wasn't as sure as heyman that the third movie would happen, saying in may 2018: "it's a tremendous amount of work that goes into those films, so i'm not sure if it will happen. or, if it does, i'm not sure when it will happen." but any such worries were put to rest when heyman said in november 2018 that a script was in the works still, but sadly, director paul king probably wouldn't return for the third movie. michael tran/filmmagicgetty images we look likely to be getting an animated paddington tv series before the third movie, although the official announcement for that show confirmed that "the story of paddington 3 is currently in development". at this moment, a release date is hard to judge and the earliest we can likely hope for is late-2020. paddington 3 cast: who's coming back? it wouldn't be a paddington movie without ben whishaw as the marmalade-loving bear, along with sally hawkins, hugh bonneville, julie walters, madeleine harris and samuel joslin as the brown family. whishaw will be voicing paddington in the animated tv series, so it would be a surprise if he didn't do the third movie as well. studiocanal imelda staunton and michael gambon will likely both be back to voice aunt lucy and uncle pastuzo, although the latter would have to be in flashbacks. we wouldn't be surprised to find the residents of windsor gardens making an appearance too, so returns for sanjeev bhaskar, ben miller, jessica hynes and doctor who's twelfth doctor peter capaldi would not be a surprise. likewise, mr gruber's antique shop is undoubtedly due to be featured, which means a delightful jim broadbent reprising his role. knuckles mcginty and his fellow prisoners from paddington 2 may be less likely to appear, but we wouldn't completely rule out finding brendan gleeson, tom davis and noah taylor back for the threequel. studiocanal however, we are sure we can expect to hear the amazing sounds of tobago and d'lime, the musical act who've peppered both paddington films so far with their lilting caribbean sounds. and the scene-stealing simon farnaby (co-writer of paddington 2) will surely appear once more, with his eye no doubt taken by a cross-dressing man. as for villain of the piece following in the formidable shoes of nicole kidman and hugh grant, can we suggest colin firth? paddington 3 plot: what's next? speaking of villains, there's always some nefarious criminal activity taking place in the paddington flicks. be it kidnapping or stealing a book or wrongful imprisonment, the franchise has it all. could nicole kidman return to exact revenge on peru's finest? or will hugh grant get out early (for musically good behaviour) and also seek recompense from the bear? a mouth-watering double-villain team-up? location-wise, london would be seem to be a fair bet again but will brexit affect proceedings? could paddington be on his way out of blighty and back to deepest, darkest peru? being more upbeat, perhaps a wedding for ben miller and jessica hynes and some london sight-seeing fun for aunt lucy? and will grumpy mr curry be redeemed? paddington 3 trailer: when can i see it? we wouldn't expect to see our first glimpse for a while yet, but at least we'll have the tv show to tie us over. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from features new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now new on netflix this week: movies you can watch now advertisement - continue reading below complete wwe and nxt pay-per-view schedule wwe wrestlemania 36: matches and predictions prison break season 6: everything you need to know how lord of the rings would look with the 1st cast it chapter 2: comparing the child and adult casts glastonbury festival 2020: all you need to know disenchantment parts 3 & 4: all you need to know taboo season 2: everything you need to know features movies features movies incredibles 3: everything you need to know bill and ted 3: everything you need to know guardians of the galaxy 3: all you need to know shazam! movie: everything you need to know zombieland: double tap - all you need to know disney's descendants 3: all you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising