skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search page builder home » page builder top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 15 comments wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery page builder has been growing in popularity since early 2011. although more than 1m websites are using wpbakery page builder today, the fact that the… read more→ top 21 free & paid drag & drop page builder wordpress plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 17 comments why do people go for wordpress? why is it the most popular blogging platform there is? certainly, every blogger will have a different answer to these questions, but what will remain is a simple foundation, the fact that wordpress makes… read more→ 10 most popular free content management systems (cms) 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs tools 10 comments here you will find all the most popular content systems that you can use to build your website and manage its content with ease. when it comes to building websites that are focused on content, the best option is usually… read more→ 14 awesome drag-and-drop plugins for building wordpress pages march 17, 2020 vishnu plugins 4 comments how often have you felt the need to make improvements to your website? perhaps you want to give it a brand-new look or feel? ever felt like trying it out on your own? is programming not on the list of… read more→ 27 best website builders for gym & fitness 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments when starting your own project in the sports industry, chances are, you will need any of these website builders for gym and fitness centers. of course, you can effortlessly use the spectacular and easy to use tools for other sports-related… read more→ 25 easy-to-use cheap ecommerce website builders 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments a comprehensive list of the best ecommerce website builders to kickstart your ecommerce business. one of the best ways to go after building an online store is by choosing software from the list of cheap ecommerce website builders below. with… read more→ 27 online store builders to start selling online quickly 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 2 comments you are here for one main reason; to select the best online store builder from the list below and kick off your business like a champ. but even if you are helping out a client, again, these website editors are… read more→ 27 best & easy-to-use website builders for all users 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments by utilizing an easy-to-use website builder, coming up with your perfect page is ridiculously simple. it could be that you are building a blog, a business page, an online store -- you name it -- it could be anything and… read more→ 28 easy-to-use diy website builder solutions 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments if you like to do it yourself, you definitely need a diy website builder. you can now create a page all on your own, without the need to hire someone. no coding and no design knowledge required! yes, that is… read more→ 25 best website builder software for every page 2020 march 10, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments by utilizing the best website builder software, you can have any page up and running in little to no time. yes, it is that simple. and it gets even simpler when you see how effortless and straightforward creating a page… read more→ 28 apparel website builder software for clothing brands 2020 march 9, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments starting your brand with an apparel website builder is easier than you think. by choosing one of the many advanced, sophisticated and hassle-free-to-use software below, you can launch your own business in close to no time. on top of that,… read more→ 25 best website builder for online clothing stores 2020 march 9, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments if you would like to dive into fashion, pick up the best website builder for online clothing store and start with a bang. nowadays, launching an ecommerce page is a piece of cake. there are so many amazing and incredible… read more→ 28 best free website builder and hosting 2020 march 9, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments to have a free website builder and hosting at your fingertips, you have your entire web space under complete control. you do not need to worry about coding, designing and keeping your page live 24/7. it is all done by… read more→ 24 fashion website builders for brands & designers 2020 march 9, 2020 rokr website builders 2 comments whether you are looking to start a blog or an online store, these fashion website builders are the perfect solution to all your ideas. they are highly versatile and adaptive enough to quickly acclimatize to the plans you have for… read more→ 25 best one-page website builders for striking sites 2020 march 9, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments there are numerous methods as to how you can approach the design and development of a web space, and these best one-page website builders are one of the easiest ways. seriously, you do not even need to have any prior… read more→ 23 best free photography website builder services 2020 march 8, 2020 rokr website builders 0 comments building a website is fun and exciting when you gain access to a free photography website builder. this compiled list of high-end page editors that do not cost a dime is ideal for photographers and beginners. in fact, even if… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×