home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » painting & antiquing techniques how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) october 14, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments want to give something the look of zinc metal without spending money on zinc metal? you can create the look with spray paint and this technique. how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray paint) a while ago i was thrifting with a few friends and stumbled across an ugly … [read more...] aged, arts and craft, before and after, decor, diy, furniture, goodwill, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, spray paint, spray paint metal, thrifting, upcycling how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting tutorial) september 20, 2019 brittany bailey 16 comments how to fake a fake pumpkin have you seen those neon orange fake pumpkins and nearly vomited because you wouldn't dream of decorating with them. i mean—get real—everyone would know they were fake. ah ha, but have you seen the price tags? $1 - $6? for that price you might just be … [read more...] accessories, art, arts and craft, autumn fall decor, ballard design pears, crafts, decor, decorating, faux painting brick, home decor, paintbrushes, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, pumpkin, renew, tutorial, upcycling, vignettes rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle february 25, 2019 brittany bailey 31 comments rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle spring is right around the corner and i'm itching to cut some fresh flowers to bring inside. i love displaying them in jars placed inside rustic wooden caddies. making a little caddy or tote out of salvage wood and branches can be an easy … [read more...] aged, bin, build it, clamps, decor, distressing, drill, gifts, home decor, painting & antiquing techniques, renew, thrifting, toolbox, trash to treasure, upcycling saving etta: exterior paint choices october 19, 2018 brittany bailey 14 comments i'm so excited to show off the colors i chose for etta's exterior! however, i'm equally excited to share with you a new paint line from magnolia paint by kilz. (this post is a sponsored post for magnolia home paint by kilz.) when kilz agreed to be a saving etta sponsor, i was … [read more...] painting, painting & antiquing techniques, saving etta diy chalkboard wall calendar august 1, 2018 brittany bailey 7 comments create this diy chalkboard calendar to get you and your family organized. it will only take you about half an hour to create but it will save you the headache of double booking yourself and get the kids on board with upcoming activities and trips. diy chalkboard wall … [read more...] chalk marker, chalkboard paint, home tour, organizational tips, painting & antiquing techniques how to make a smooth chalkboard wall {for imperfect walls} july 30, 2018 brittany bailey 57 comments have you ever wished you had a chalkboard wall in your home? but, those bumpy textured walls or damaged drywall are not smooth enough? well, today i'm about to rock your world by showing you how to make a smooth chalkboard wall for imperfect walls! how to make a smooth … [read more...] arts and craft, chalkboard paint, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, tutorial diy farmhouse style serving tray april 6, 2018 brittany bailey 3 comments diy farmhouse style serving tray hi there! chelsea here from making manzanita, where it's all about making your house a home! i'm so excited to be with you today at pretty handy girl. i love renovating and incorporating farmhouse style decor into our home. a common decor item … [read more...] build it, decor, decorating, painting & antiquing techniques can you make a mirrored window with spray paint? february 2, 2018 brittany bailey 15 comments can you really make a mirrored window with spray paint? i have to admit, i was skeptical when i picked up a can of krylon looking glass spray paint. according to the directions, you can make your own mirrored glass with spray paint. i decided to give this "magical" spray paint a … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating, faux finish, mirrored glass, painting & antiquing techniques the best diy aging and antiquing techniques october 9, 2017 brittany bailey 3 comments aging and antiquing technique tutorials: do you love the idyllic vintage or rustic look? if your answer is yes, then this round up is for you! i've curated some awesome projects with full details for aging and antiquing techniques that every diyer should know. check them … [read more...] aged, antiques, arts and craft, decorating, distressing, faux finish, furniture, painting & antiquing techniques the perfect rustic paint technique {with video tutorial} september 25, 2017 brittany bailey 7 comments the perfect rustic paint technique {with video tutorial} i have been painting and distressing furniture and home décor for almost ten years now. over the years i've tried a lot of different techniques, but the one i'm going to show you today is the one i consider "the perfect … [read more...] aged, arts and craft, distressing, diy, painting & antiquing techniques how to repaint dated decor august 30, 2017 brittany bailey 74 comments want to know how to repaint dated decor? raise your hand if you are a thrift shopper? no, what about yard sales? have you ever seen any ugly ceramic decor items that shouldn't have survived the 70's or 80's? nodding your head yes? i thought so. today i'm going to show you how … [read more...] arts and craft, before and after, decorating, goodwill, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, renew, stashbusting vintage map lampshade march 17, 2017 brittany bailey 74 comments do you want to update a plain vanilla lamp shade? do you have a vacation you want to remember? you can do both with this vintage map lampshade! the process to create a vintage map lampshade is easy, especially if your lamp shade is close to a perfect cylinder. but, what do you … [read more...] accessories, aged, arts and craft, book, books as decor, decor, decorating, decoupage, destinations, diy, glaze, hot glue, lamp, london england, mod podge, new light fixture, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, scotland, tutorial, upcycling how to make a vintage rustic sleigh ride sign december 19, 2016 brittany bailey 6 comments you guys, i'm super excited about this vintage rustic sleigh ride sign i made using scraps from my workshop. this sign turned out 200 times better than i imagined in my head. i knew i had to share the tutorial with you so you can make your own vintage signs for any holiday! let's … [read more...] arts and craft, build it, dark wood, decor, decorating, distressing, painting, painting & antiquing techniques, sign, video rustic wine crate with rope handles august 1, 2016 brittany bailey 28 comments have you ever stumbled across a wine crate and wondered what you could do with it? i have just the idea for you and it will take less than an hour to create. today i'll show you how to make a rustic wine crate with rope handles. materials: wine crate or wooden box … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating, painting & antiquing techniques, upcycling how to get a smooth paint finish without a paint sprayer july 15, 2016 brittany bailey 14 comments a smooth factory finish is the ideal paint finish for cabinetry. a professional cabinet finisher would normally use a paint sprayer, but today i'm going to show you how to get a smooth paint finish without a paint sprayer. the first step in getting a factory smooth finish … [read more...] painting & antiquing techniques how to save a dated bathroom vanity may 27, 2016 brittany bailey 6 comments if you have a dated vanity, you may think you have to rip it out and buy a new one. well, think again. it's not hard to save that dated vanity and make it look like new without spending much money! all you need is a little prep work and the right type of paint. ready to … [read more...] painting & antiquing techniques 1 2 3 … 11 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok