newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close painting ready for a room refresh? these companies let you shop for paint from homehome projects you don't have to leave your couch to give your living room a new look. leeron hoory about 8 hours ago 4 easy ways to open a paint can like a prohome projects even seasoned diyers might not be able to name all four. can you? megan baker yesterday tossing unused paint is more complicated than you thinkhome projects here's how to do it right, whether you're working with oil, latex, or spray paint. erin johnson mar 10, 2020 before and after: this bold $100 floor redo will stop you in your trackshome projects paint gets another point in the "w" column. alison goldman feb 28, 2020 8 kitchen cabinet paint jobs we just can’t quithome projects white kitchens have their place, but these might just be better. dabney frake feb 28, 2020 the (mostly free) way to get dried paint off woodhome projects you don't have to live with the splatter. we've got pro tricks for how to remove them, even if they're totally dry. amanda lecky feb 19, 2020 when it's ok to paint over wallpaper (and how to do it right)home projects stuck with stubborn wallpaper? you don't have to rip it down to change the look. erin johnson feb 15, 2020 yes, you can paint your popcorn ceiling—here's howhome projects you don't have to remove it to improve it. kelly dawson feb 12, 2020 the best colors to paint your hallways, according to home expertsreal estate keep things light. jamie birdwell-branson feb 4, 2020 9 time-saving tricks only pro painters know (until now)home projects make your next paint job a breeze with these expert tips. brigitt earley jan 27, 2020 this type of artwork is what your living room gallery wall is missingstyle don't miss the boat on this trend! sarah lyon jan 17, 2020 10 living rooms with dark walls perfect for hibernating from the cold weatherstyle it's cozy season, and dark walls are very on brand. sarah lyon jan 16, 2020 7 two-tone furniture redos for when you just want a *little* painthome projects these furniture makeovers let natural wood have the spotlight. sarah lyon jan 12, 2020 5 surprising paint ideas to brighten up your home, according to designersstyle move over, white and beige! sarah lyon jan 11, 2020 you’ll think twice about passing up old furniture after you see these dresser makeovershome projects you'll be itching to refinish your own dresser once you see these beauties. sarah lyon jan 7, 2020 this $20 trick will fix your living room’s biggest eyesore—i promise!style it's amazing what a can of paint can do. danielle blundell jan 2, 2020 before and after: a $0 entryway redo cruella de vil would go wild overhome projects this new space has major spunk with minimal investment. alison goldman jan 1, 2020 the best bold wall color transformations we saw this yearhome projects these stunners will have you running to the paint store on the double. carolin lehmann dec 29, 2019 these pretty murals prove the dream of the '90s is alive in paint landhome projects murals are back, baby, and they're more stylish than ever. sarah lyon dec 28, 2019 this incredibly subtle paint project adds architectural drama to generic rentalsstyle some well-placed shapes and a can of paint is all you really need to turn your walls into a work of art. tina chadha dec 22, 2019 9 colors that complement classic blue, pantone's 2020 color of the yearhome projects don't know what to use with classic blue? don't worry, we've got you. megan baker dec 5, 2019 6 projects you can diy using pantone's 2020 color of the yearhome projects whether you want a little classic blue or a lot, these projects will help you stay on-trend for 2020. megan baker dec 5, 2019 selling your house? paint your bedroom one of these colorsreal estate spoiler: white walls are a no-no. megan johnson dec 3, 2019 9 smart tricks to make your next paint job simple and painlesshome projects for those of us (hi, me) who like our chores to feel a little less chore-y. kelly dawson nov 23, 2019 we tried the gadget that can tell you the paint color of literally anythinghome projects we put the datacolor colorreader to the test—here's our verdict. sarah lyon oct 16, 2019 before and after: a high-impact, paint-only bedroom makeover—for $160home projects when georgia natives sarah and ryan moved into their two-bedroom apartment in los angeles, they knew they wanted to give the bare white walls a custom treatment. inspiration struck as sarah was browsing—where else?—reddit. megan baker oct 14, 2019 it's official: these are the best (and worst) colors for your bathroomstyle the pros weigh in. sarah lyon oct 14, 2019 6 no-fail tips for painting with dark colorshome projects don't be scared of the dark side! we've got expert tricks on how to make deep hues work in your home. hannah baker oct 6, 2019 it's official: these are the very best paint colors for your bathroomstyle pack a punch in your bathroom, thanks to these standout shades. sarah lyon aug 28, 2019 what is taupe? 15 ways to use this neutral huestyle everything you need to know about this color that's making a comeback. caroline biggs aug 2, 2019 this city’s homes have some of the best use of dark paint color we’ve ever seentours can you guess which one it is? adrienne breaux aug 2, 2019 9 clever painting ideas to steal from the 2020 ikea cataloghome projects paint is one of the easiest ways to transform your home. and while simply picking a new color and rolling it onto your walls will do the trick, sometimes you're looking for something a little more exciting. thankfully, the 2020 ikea catalog dropped this week, and it's full of great ideas for your next home project. tara bellucci aug 1, 2019 how do paint colors get their names, anyway? home projects we asked experts at some of the biggest paint companies and got to the bottom of this age-old question. sarah lyon jul 25, 2019 10 paint mistakes designers are tired of you makingstyle get your space back on track with these helpful tips. kelsey mulvey jul 19, 2019 40 black rooms that make you want to go to the dark side style goodbye, neutrals. hello, bold, beautiful black rooms. sarah lyon jul 17, 2019 here's what your childhood bedroom color says about youstyle your tastes might've changed since you were a kid, but the color of your childhood bedroom might inform your current style. kelsey mulvey jul 16, 2019 this paint company’s new crowdsourced color is so chillstyle designer-curated paint company clare has recently increased its palette from 55 to 56 hues with the introduction of its newest color—and fans had a part in choosing it.in response to the demand for a new color, the company decided to make it a collective endeavor by inviting customers to weigh in or what the next shade would be. kenya foy may 14, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc