community help center report a problem help center community report a problem sign in how can we help? khan academy help center parents getting started parent quick start guide updated march 19, 2020 18:31 follow welcome to khan academy! parents are key in supporting their children’s learning on khan academy, and so we want to help you and your child get to learning and growing on khan academy as quickly and easily as possible. we know many of you have questions specific to preparing for school closures. you’re not alone, and we are here to support you. we’ve created a parent faq to help you prepare for remote learning. if you’re ready to get started, you can use this guide to get yourself and your child up and running, but you don’t have to read all of it. you can complete steps 1-4 in about 15 minutes. please also feel free to skip to just the parts you need using the links in the steps below: step 1: create your parent account or log into your existing account. step 2: view your parent dashboard. step 3: add your child's existing account or create a new child account. step 4: have your child log in. step 5: learn more about course mastery, get your child started with learning, and follow their progress. optional step 6: read our additional resources on managing accounts and helping your child learn with khan academy. ----- step 1: creating your parent account first things first: if you don’t already have one, you’ll want to create an account for yourself. to do this, go to the khan academy home page and then click on the parents button. you’ll have the option to sign up with a google account, a facebook account, or with an username or password. use whichever option works best for you. top^ logging into your existing account if you already have a khan academy account (even if you weren’t previously using it as a parent), you can log into it by clicking on login at the top right corner of the page: top^ steps 2 and 3: viewing your dashboard and creating an account for your child once you’ve created your account or logged into your existing account, you’ll be taken to your parent dashboard. if you’re not automatically taken to your parent dashboard, you can find it by clicking on your name in the upper right corner of the page, and then clicking on parent dashboard in the drop-down menu. if you’re viewing your parent dashboard for the first time, you’ll see a welcome message and then your empty parent dashboard. to connect with your child, click on the add a child button. you’ll have different options for adding your child depending on their age and whether they already have a khan academy account. adding a child who already has a khan academy account if your child already has a khan academy account (for instance, an account they use at school), you can connect to that account as a parent! this way, you’ll have access to their progress made at school, their teacher will be able to see any work they complete at home, and you don’t have to worry about juggling multiple accounts. to add your child’s existing account, click on the add a child button in your parent dashboard, and then click on my child already has an account under the field for your child’s birthday. enter the email your child used to create their khan academy account (if your child created their account at school, it’s likely to be their school email), and then click next. you’ll see a message confirming the invitation has been sent and encouraging you to log out and have your child log in. when your child logs in, they’ll see a notification alert next to their name in the upper right corner of the page: they’ll click on their name, and then the notifications tab, where they’ll find your request to add you as their parent: to accept your request, they’ll click on the accept as parent button and see a confirmation message. top^ creating an account for a child under 13 if your child is under 13, they will have a restricted account and you’ll need to create and manage their account. you’ll be asked to create an username and password for your child, enter their school grade, and their gender (if you don’t want to share that information, that’s fine! just choose not specified). you can also choose whether to allow your child to add other coaches (such as their teacher or another parent or guardian). when you’re done editing your child’s information, click next. you’ll see a confirmation message, and you can go back to your parent dashboard or add another child. top^ creating an account for a child over 13 if your child is over 13, they’ll be able to manage their own account. you’ll have the option of creating an account for them, or sending them an email so they can create their account with you already connected as their parent. if you’d like to create their account, enter an username and password, their school grade, and their gender (if you don’t want to share that information, that’s fine! just choose not specified). when you’re done editing your child’s information, click next. if you’d like to send them an email, select yes next to does your child have email? and enter their email address. your child will receive an email that looks something like this: they’ll click on join khan academy and follow the steps to create their account, and you’ll automatically be connected to them as their parent. top^ step 4: helping your child log in now that you’re connected to your child’s account, the next step is to have your child log into their account. if you and your child are sharing a computer, you’ll need to log out of your parent account any time your child wants to learn on khan academy. you can log out from any page by clicking on your name in the upper right corner and then log out. your child can then log in using the username and password you created for them. top^ step 5: understanding course mastery at khan academy, we provide a personalized, mastery-based learning system. mastery learning means that your child will continue to work on a concept until they can master that concept or skill. you can tell your child has mastered a skill when they apply that skill to successfully complete a job or a task that requires it. many of our courses use the mastery system -- here’s a full list of courses that use mastery. you and your child can find these courses (and any of our courses) in the courses dropdown menu in the top left corner of any page. top^ step 5 (continued): getting your child started with learning on khan academy if you’re not sure what course your child should work on, we suggest reaching out to your child’s teacher, if possible, to get their advice on where to start. if their teacher isn't available, look at your child’s homework and ask them questions about the topics they’re covering in class. look for online resources that match those topics. to start learning in a course, your child will click on its name in the courses dropdown menu. in this example, they chose high school math, so they were taken to the high school math course page. they can then choose the unit they’d like to start learning in. in this example, they chose mathematics i. now that they’re on the unit page, they can choose any video, article, or exercise in the lesson they’d like to work on. in this example, they chose the overview and history of algebra video under algebra foundations. top^ step 5 (continued): following your child’s progress you can view your child’s progress on khan academy from your parent dashboard. click on your child’s name to view their activity. you'll be taken directly to your child's progress page, but you can also go to their profile page or their teachers page from the left side menu. their progress report allows you to filter their activity by time, content, and activity type (like exercises, videos, articles, quizzes, etc.). you’ll see the name of the activity they worked on, when they worked on it, and how long they worked on it. additionally, if the activity involved practicing a skill or answering questions, you’ll see their mastery level, if there was any change in their mastery level during the activity (i.e., did they level up or down in mastery), and how many problems they got correct versus the total number of problems in the activity. note that if your child just completed an activity, it might not show up on their progress report immediately; it can take up to 10 minutes for their latest activity to appear. top^ additional resources we hope this guide was useful in getting you started on khan academy. here are some additional resources to help you manage your and your child’s accounts and help your child get the most out of their learning. managing accounts how can i edit my child's settings? how do i reset my child's password? how do i delete my child's account? how do i add or remove coaches on a child account? changes to your parent dashboard in 2020 more learning resources for parents how do i access khan academy kids? what languages is khan academy available in? parent's guide to official sat practice how can i use khan academy as a homeschooling resource? stories from parents using ka to tutor top^ was this article helpful? 493 out of 524 found this helpful follow ask the community get khan academy tips, tricks, and help from your fellow community members visit our community our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. khan academy is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. donate or volunteer today! language english (us) български español français português do brasil about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more © 2018 khan academy terms of use privacy notice