instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "parenting" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: parenting rebecca 2 min read july 3, 2018 3 replies summer guilt (and the plan to ditch it) parenting it’s no secret that i love summer vacation. i love that andy is home with us, that the kids are off, that even though i am still working, i get to balance that with extra time in the backyard, travelling to fun destinations with the people i love the most, and sleeping in. summer, somehow, also comes with a side of mom guilt. let’s make this perfectly clear – i think mom/dad guilt sucks. i know logically we shouldn’t give in to those feelings, but it happens. i’m aware of it, but i do want to change it. there are some days when, admittedly, we are the laziest bunch who ever lazied. there are way too many video games, way too much tv time, each of us kind of exist in our own little quiet bubbles. in those moments, i don’t make plans, i don’t have something exciting to do with the kids, sometimes, on these days, we only come together to eat, even though we are all in the same house. then the guilt sets in. but here’s the funny thing. those days are also some of our favourites. we travel a lot in the summer, and we check out museums, and local restaurants, and we spend so much time at various parks and splash pads. so there are plenty of days when we have full activities planned and family bonding happens. the quiet days become just as cherished. these moments of relaxation are so needed. we don’t like to be overscheduled and busy for the sake of busy. there are many days in the summer where it’s go go go but that’s why the quiet days become so important. so i’m working on ditching the guilt. because it doesn’t do anyone any good. and when the guilt creeps in, it usually means i’m nagging everyone to get off screens, or do something together, or try a new activity, even though we are perfectly content with the downtime. because those moments are needed. as a family, and as individuals. there are many days where our family is enjoying a ‘camp mom and dad’ experience. i’m going to start embracing all of our days together, and work on pushing the guilt aside. let’s enjoy the lazy days of summer! who’s with me? ps: are you working at home with the kids around this summer? here are some of my tips to make it a bit easier. the way i schedule my day has to change during the summer, but deadlines still get met! rebecca 3 min read june 17, 2018 no reply parents, let’s stop saying ‘i’m sorry’ to each other parenting i get it. it’s almost like instinct to say sorry even for the most minor of inconveniences. we do it all the time. i suspect many of you, like me, will say sorry for no apparent reason, almost like a preemptive sorry being sent out into the void to ask the great nothingness to accept your apology before you accidentally bump into someone, or show up a few minutes late, or interrupt another person. how many times a day do you find yourself saying sorry? it’s the polite thing to do, saying sorry. but parents, we need to stop. even though i recognize this habit in myself, i really notice it when fellow parents are saying sorry to me. i’m not saying to stop saying sorry when we really should – to our kids, our spouses, our friends – there are times that the word needs to be said. but for some things, we need to shelve the word. why should we stop saying sorry? parents, there’s no need to say sorry when we are together via @bitofmomsense click to tweet because i don’t want you apologizing if your child is having a temper tantrum. been there, done that. i promise you aren’t alone. i get it, it can feel stressful, but unless you are letting your kiddo throw the entire collection of breakables i have on my shelf during this tantrum without stopping her, it’s all good. kids have tantrums. no apologies necessary. please don’t be sorry for the state of your house. any state. i say sorry for this all the time. even when my house is clean and company arrives i find myself saying sorry. for what? having a home that is well loved and lived in? for the piles of markers and paper that sit in many corners of the house because the kids are constantly creating? for the random socks that are on the floor because the kids never seem to take them off near a laundry hamper? okay, that last one maybe could actually be dealt with, but still. you know what i’m saying. our home, and your home, is where we are raising children, and as fellow parents arrive with their arms filled with play things for the play date, or a diaper bag, or their own child who didn’t want to walk in from the car, none of us in that moment are worried about the piles of dishes in the sink. honestly, i’m probably just happy to be at your house and out of my own for a bit. please don’t apologize. we are just happy to see another adult while our kids entertain themselves and we have an actual conversation. we need to stop saying sorry for what we are wearing or how we look. because i didn’t notice the stain on your shirt until you pointed it out (and even then, i didn’t care), and maybe you’d prefer to have a salon straightened hair do (i know i want that for me) but your top knot is great because i’m not even thinking about that. the apology list goes on and one sometimes. so let’s stop apologizing for things we really don’t need to be sorry for. let’s embrace the time we have, pour another cup of coffee and let the kids pull out the entire costume bin in our basement to play dress up. they love it, and we’ll enjoy our time together. but don’t you day say sorry when you leave. your company is better than a thousand reasons to say sorry. rebecca 2 min read march 25, 2018 1 reply vacation mom family travel, parenting i openly joke about being a vacation mom when we go away, vs ‘regular’ mom when we are at home. i don’t want the kids to think i’m boring and no fun when we are enjoying our day to day lives, and i don’t think they usually do. but they also need to know that our lives can’t be all fun all the time. many of their activities and so much of their time is spent with me, and i know we’ve been creating memories for years whether we are at home or in a new, exciting location. life as a parent includes those special moments, but also the tough ones. where we need to learn lessons together and sometimes it means that we aren’t in very good moods. i can’t be super fun and say yes to everything all the time, there are responsibilities and routines that need to be kept. but vacation mom. oh, she’s pretty fun. bedtimes get pushed back a bit (although, only a bit) and she’s likely to say yes to play time, to pool time, to going for a walk (unless she’s in the middle of her book) and to extra popsicles and dessert. it’s vacation mom who buys the sugary cereal that we would never eat at home. it doesn’t mean that it’s a free for all when we are on vacation, but let’s be honest; vacations usually mean less stress, and less items on the to-do list competing for time and attention. as parents, we let ourselves be free when on vacation a bit too. i hope that vacation mom creeps out every so often in our everyday lives. i like it when she’s around. we do plenty together as a family, i know how fortunate we are to spend so much quality time together, and how we find exciting, interesting and even simple things to do in our own backyard – that really is about quality over quantity. but i’ll miss vacation mom now that we are home. and i’ll also miss her decision to buy fruity pebbles. rebecca 1 min read february 16, 2018 no reply and then she was 9 as they grow, parenting this weekend, we celebrate my daughter’s ninth birthday. it’s a weekend event, between family parties and friends and today being a pd day (and her actual birthday) and i hope these celebrations help her feel as special as she really is to us. i wrote a post when my son turned 9, about his excitement, and how much fun it is to live that through his eyes. it’s no different with her, but there is just a bit more of an emotional feeling with her turning 9 because she’s our baby. our last. the last 9th birthday we celebrate. there’s always something bittersweet about these occasions with her because of that finality in being our second and last child. but we love watching her grow. she’s a confident and kind person and we couldn’t be more proud. she teaches us so many lessons about patience and happiness all the time and there are so many aspects to her personality that i want to absorb because i wish i was more like her in so many ways. i couldn’t be prouder of who she is becoming and the light that she brings into this world. i hope her next year and all the others ahead are as joyful for her as these many years have been for me, and that she continues to dream and shine. happy birthday baby girl. xo rebecca 2 min read september 29, 2017 no reply school fundraising with lice services canada in ottawa parenting lice services of canada are a blog advertiser. ____________________________________________ has your school council already had their first meeting? our school had one already and our plans for fundraising, events, and school fun are well under way. schools have various ways to raise money during the year. i wanted to share with you details about one of my blog advertisers who may be able to help your school plus, it’s about a topic that affects most schools at some point: lice. lice services canada offers families peace of mind. they can help by providing a free diagnosis and if there is an issue they offer not only tools that you can use at home but lice removal services as well right here in ottawa. we know that lice affects daycares, preschools and schools across the city. luckily, we don’t have to handle it alone. lice services canada also has a fundraising program that can raise money for your school. in addition to great information to share with parents, the program offers a 10% of sales on lice removal services and $5 for products purchased. head checks are included too! for a flyer that can be printed out to hand out to parents or emailed to the school, visit the lice services canada website. there’s also a registration form that can be filled out. before your next council meeting, browse through their website and look at some of their services and materials for information that you can bring to the meeting (or present to your school). if this is something you think parents might be interested in, before the notes about lice start coming home, now is the time to sign up. for more information visit their website: fundraiser lice services canada are a blog advertiser. all opinions are my own, this post is meant to provide you with information and options. rebecca 5 min read july 3, 2017 no reply parents: the city of ottawa wants you to take this survey about kids and food marketing parenting the city of ottawa wants you to have your say about unhealthy food marketing to kids via @bitofmomsense click to tweet we have conversations about food all the time in my house. it usually revolves around what we want to eat, or are currently eating and often highlights favourite flavours and bites. while we talk to our kids, and have for years, about the importance of healthy decision making when it comes to what we eat, we are also a family who loves sweets, treats and sometimes not-great-for-you foods. the key, i feel, as a parent, is to share with our kids, openly and honestly, information about the food we eat. if something is high in sugar, we will explain that. we may not ban it, but will talk about why it’s not the best pre-dinner snack, or even daily treat. while it’s no secret in our home that mommy loves donuts, the kids know that they aren’t replacing my fruits and vegetables, that i continue to eat balanced meals, and that i shouldn’t feel guilt indulging from time to time. positive food messaging isn’t always easy and find ways to relay the message of healthy eating, to young children, can be rather difficult at times. while we have always been open about choices, and work to provide them with plenty of healthy options, when left to choose on their own, the kids fall into the same trap i personally do at times – the quicker, sweeter treat. however, when we sit for meals, or when they ask for a bowl of cherries or slices of cheese for an after school snack, i like to think that our messaging is working and we continue to encourage them. we talk a lot about beverages that fill us up in a not-wonderful way. that juice isn’t a necessity, and that drinking more water is a must. the kids now ask for water more often than they ever have (my son prefers ‘bubbly’ water, while my daughter likes it flat. before love it ice cold). these are all steps in the right direction. however, as parents, we aren’t the only source of information for them anymore. they see what other kids are eating, what television commercials recommend they should eat, and what their favourite sports star is marketing. interested in providing your opinion about food marketing to kids? the city of ottawa wants to hear from you: www.haveyoursayottawa.ca via @bitofmomsense click to tweet what happens when we are in the grocery aisle and they see a cartoon character adorning a box of cookies or cereal? i think the same thing that happens when i see a character i love on something – i want to buy it. for kids, it indicates something fun, familiar and they want it. marketing works this way, it’s meant to appeal to our emotional connection to something fun, exciting or that we love. it’s hard for kids to understand that the goal is to sell the product, not necessarily provide them with the best option. but for kids, of course they want it. they see commercials selling something to them all the time. my son can rhyme off a lot of fast food tag lines thanks to his watching sports highlights. when they watch children’s tv that has commercials, they see plenty of school snacks that they want – and that i wouldn’t want to buy often (if at all). i don’t believe in preventing the kids from having treats. again, i think the conversation about what we buy and what we eat has to happen constantly, and that feels like an uphill battle sometimes. we are fighting against marketing efforts that frankly, we ourselves have a hard time ignoring. it’s not a perfect system, and we don’t always make the best choices either, but i really believe that it’s difficult for kids to navigate on their own at times. this is why i’m happy to see the city of ottawa is reviewing food marketing to kids and locations where this happens. we all have opinions on the topic. they are asking parents to fill out their survey to get a better idea of what we would like to see happen and what we think is currently happening when it comes to unhealthy food marketing and kids. here is the link: www.haveyoursayottawa.ca it took me about 10-15 minutes to fill it out, and mostly, the questions revolve around where we are currently seeing food marketing to kids across the city and where we want to see that stopping. no matter the age of your kids, i encourage you to check out the survey and have your say. participate in the survey by clicking here: www.haveyoursayottawa.ca this post is brought to you by the city of ottawa but the opinions and images are my own. rebecca 5 min read march 30, 2017 2 replies your babies grow up but they still need you as they grow, parenting parents, if you have newborns or toddlers, everything feels beyond overwhelming. trust me. i know. because i’ve been there. there seems to be an endless need for something – attention, physical contact, learning – it’s all part of what we signed on for as parents. however, the difficult moments, when they are yelling at the top of their lungs or lying on the ground refusing to move out the front door, seem like they will never end. i’m here to tell you that they do, and i also want you to know that it changes. now, as my children are 8 and 10, we’ve entered a new stage of parenting. every age and stage has brought moments of pure joy and happiness, as every stage also brings stress, guilt and fear (this age is no different), but our pre-teen, post-preschool age that we are in right now is proving pretty amazing. they are beyond easy to travel with, they are able to communicate (most of the time) what they need, when they are hungry, or if something is bothering them. they are fun people to play with and be around! now, this post isn’t one to tell you to slow things down, and appreciate each toddler tantrum or baby wake up in the middle of the night because it’s fleeting. if you are a parent, you already know that a) time becomes something you can’t control at all and it accelerates to a new warp speed you didn’t realize was possible and b) simultaneously, some days feel like they will never, ever end and you will forever be trapped in the most uncomfortable rocking chair with a child pinching your nipple while the toddler demands answers about why their crackers are upside down suddenly. you know about time. you don’t need a lecture about enjoying the moments because while those tough times are there, for every age, you also know how your heart might burst from your chest at any moment, or that you get teary eyed at the silliest things your kids do. i know you know this. if you want to hear that there is something beyond the toddler tantrums, i will happily reassure you that there is (um, i’ll just gloss over how i think age 4 is the toughest ever, okay?) set aside the need and desire for time to slow down or for the tough moments to pass quicker. this post is to tell you that even as my kids gain more independence, even as i grow prouder and happier with the people they are becoming each and every day, even as they pour their own cereal before bed and complete their morning school routine without any intervention from me, i’m here to tell you they will still need you. and that’s what i want you to think about in the tough moments with the newborns and toddlers. because the thought of them not needing us can be far too overwhelming. last night my 8 year old crawled into the bed with me. i didn’t even wake. and in the morning, after i allowed us to sleep in as late as we possibly could she snuggled in tighter and wanted just a few more moments in my arms. she’s perfectly able to get out of the bed and get ready for school herself, but in those early morning moments, she just needed me. my 10 year old has more freedom to make decisions on his own now and is given space and opportunity to do so. but he’s still the one giving me a hug when he says goodbye in the school yard. he still wants to chat about our recent adventure and spend time recapping every moment while planning for the next. he still needs me. those are the moments we will remember as parents. in every stage, even as they grow and their need for us changes on a daily basis, but i’ve also come to realize that just like us, they want an extra long hug sometimes. i know they do. they will push away in their own subtle ways while they are growing but they still need us. those moments, the tough ones, feel long. they do even now when we deal with random angry outbursts or hurt feelings or the usual parental disciplinary decisions that are ‘completely unfair’ and that ‘ruin their lives’ somehow. but that doesn’t change how we all feel about each other. they still need us. they probably always will in some way or another, we just need to be there for them. and really, when we are in those rocking chairs in the middle of the night with a newborn on us, that’s the same message and need as it is now. we’ll always be there. i really want them to know that. your babies will grow but will they’ll still need you via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rebecca 3 min read march 8, 2017 no reply summer camp registration begins at shenkman art centre around ottawa summer camp registration at @shenkmanarts begins today! #ottawa click to tweet have you thought about summer camp yet? if you aren’t sure what camp to sign up for this year, consider shenkman art centre in orleans! it’s right off the highway in orleans and is offering a variety of exciting, creative summer camps. if you haven’t been to shenkman arts centre for an event, performance or activity, it’s really a must-see facility. i love the open space, the theatre options and art that is constantly on display. both my kids enjoy browsing the halls at shenkman arts centre, looking at the exhibits or attending a show. this summer, if you are still considering summer camp options for your children, you’ll want to check out the amazing offerings at shenkman. why consider camp at shenkman arts centre? i know many camps across the city offer sports and swimming and a lot of running around which is wonderful for our kids. however, i’m a huge fan at the thought of introducing creative, imaginative and hands-on skills as well and i think that theatre, creative arts and being a ‘maker’ is so important for many kids. i know that both of my kids would love a variety of these camps (and even though we haven’t done camp because of travel, i’m thinking this year might be time to give them a try!) what kind of camps do they offer? below is a sample of their summer camp line up. all of them can be found on their summer camp registration page. many of these programs are also offered in partnership with other organizations like the orleans young players theatre school and the ottawa school of art. this is just another example of the richness and quality of content that families can enjoy! musical theatre (ages 8-11) dance and pottery (ages 6-8 and 9-12) feature film making (ages ages 9-14) building an art porfolio (ages 13-15) art inspired by the outdoors (ages 6-8) the art of photography (ages 13-15) pottery half day ( ages7-12) pottery wheel half day (ages 12+) i selected just a handful that sound amazing and included a variety of ages, but really, i could have listed all of them – there are so many creative, interesting choices. i know many kids who would love to go to camp to learn how to record a music video or stand on stage and become actors. browse the entire selection to find the right fit for your child. camps are for kids aged 6 and older and i love that there is so much selection for teens as well. if you are thinking about signing up for summer camp at shenkman arts centre, registration is now open. sign up early to ensure the camp your child wants is still available. this summer, let your child’s creativity shine at shenkman arts centre! *shenkman arts centre is a blog advertiser rebecca 1 min read january 27, 2017 no reply toddler speak as they grow, parenting do your kids have special ways of saying certain words? even as my kids have gotten older, there are still a few sayings of theirs that remain unique, like they have their own language. especially when they are speaking to each other. when the kids were first learning how to talk, and were toddlers, they had certain ways of saying words. here are a few: lone = phone mummin = muffin ot = off hat = have i wrote those down so that i wouldn’t forget. at the time, i told myself there was no way to forget their cute words. now, i know there were so many others! some words, like earmuffins (for ear muffs) still make me laugh. those are the memories that sometimes fade; the little mannerisms of the sweet voiced toddler. they have long been replaced with a confident, older voice that my older kids now have. but those wee voices still remain in the back of my mind, yet, they seem a bit foggy now. has it really been that long since i’ve had a toddler? (the answer is yes, my youngest turns 8 soon!) looking back on those toddler years, these unique words, that are cute and sweet, are cherished memories. does your child have a special way of saying something? my recommendation is to write it down so you don’t forget! rebecca 5 min read december 2, 2016 12 replies two minutes to balance {and a giveaway} health and wellness we are always trying to find our balance. balance is kind of a word that we use a lot – as parents, we are either always in search of balance, or struggling to maintain what we see as our balance. i personally don’t think balance can exist all the time, but instead, we discover ways to incorporate moments of balance in our lives. i think parents are always in a state of balance searching. how do we work and ensure our kids are getting the best of our time? how do we stay at home with the kids but still find other passions that fulfill us? how do i balance being a parent and a partner to my spouse? to me, finding balance isn’t about the day or weeks taken as a whole. they are about those few moments taken each and every day, where we can find some peace, calm and isolate a way to reconnect with our own selves. it took me years to give myself permission to take time for myself. i had all the support in the world from family, friends and especially my husband when the kids first came along, and yet, convincing myself that it was perfectly okay (and at times crucial) to enjoy a few moments alone was difficult. fast forward to now and i have no problem enjoying those moments. i have recognized over the years just how essential they are for my own well-being. i find a hot bubble bath or cuddling up with a good book very rewarding. and my balance doesn’t always mean i want to fly solo. sometimes the balance is about less work or screen time for me, and more time outside with the kids. or maybe it’s about andy and i sitting on the couch and recapping our week together as a couple. balance isn’t one-size-fits all. we each create our own. one of my favourite ways to find those couple of minutes to myself is with a cup of tea. andy was the one who was the tea drinker first, but it’s a ritual i have completely gotten on board with. in the afternoon or evening especially, i love sitting down with a hot cup of tea and just pausing. sometimes i fall into old habits and bring the mug to my computer to get more work done, but on days when i am really present, and aware that i need a mental break, i pour a steaming cup and just sit. it takes barely two minutes to wait for the water to boil, get my cup ready and head to the couch. i have really been enjoying these new tetley ayurvedic balance teas – each one has been carefully and expertly created with balance in mind. here’s some info from tetley: “tetley ayurvedic balance teas were inspired by ayurveda, a 5,000 year old system of knowledge, which teaches that balancing of the mind, body and spirit is essential for holistic well-being. working with ayurvedic experts, our blends were lovingly crafted to address the needs for balance at all stages of our lives.” what are the different teas, and how have i been enjoying them? poise-vata is a calming tea for when you are worried or feeling scattered (guess which one i’ve been drinking the most of lately!). cool-pitta is meant to help cool you if you are feeling overheated (spoiler alert: there’s definitely a certain time during the month when i think this will help me!) vigour-kapha is to help when you are feeling sluggish. (as i write this post, i am enjoying a cup of vigour-kapha because i stayed up late reading last night! see, this is how i balance!) it’s not always easy, especially this time of year, to discover our balance and to hold onto it; to make sure that we are feeling well-rounded, in our activities and in our spirit. however, once we find it, only for a few moments, it’s a rewarding feeling. for more information about the teas and their ingredients visit the tetley website. enter to win enter to win a tetley tea prize pack from @bitofmomsense #tetleyfindyourbalance. ends dec 6 click to tweet thanks to tetley, you have a chance to win a wonderful tea package – perfect to help find your moments of balance, or to gift to someone you know will love it. the gift is for a selection of tetley teas, including tetley ayurvedic balance teas and a tea bodem (value is approx. $45!) to enter, simply comment below and tell me how you find your moments of balance. giveaway is open to canadian residents of legal age, void in qc. one entry per person. giveaway is open until december 6, 5 pm est. one winner will be drawn at random from eligible entries. winner’s name and address will be provided to a third party to facilitate mailing of the prize. disclosure: this post is sponsored by tetley but all opinions are my own. tea is a great way to find my balance! older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.