nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop home » travel guides » france travel guide for 2019 » paris travel guide paris travel guide last updated: march 18, 2020 paris. poets, artists, playwrights, writers, journalists, and more have all written about their love of this city….and it’s hard not to fall in love with paris. it’s a place that exudes culture, sophistication, class, and style. and, like the millions before me, i fell in love with this city the first time i visited. paris is one of the few cities in the world that truly lives up to its hype. as hemingway said, “if you are lucky enough to have lived in paris as a young man, then wherever you go for the rest of your life, it stays with you, for paris is a moveable feast.” paris is gigantic, with thousands of years of history. it would take a lifetime to visit all of paris. it can be overwhelming for most people. i’ve spent years visiting, running tours, and even living here and this travel guide to paris will help you plan the perfect trip to this beautiful city by giving you on and off the beaten path things, costs, money saving tips, and everything in between! table of contents things to see and do typical costs suggested budget money saving tips where to stay how to get around when to go how to stay safe best places to book your trip gear and packing list suggested books my detailed guidebooks related blogs on paris paris top 5 things to see and do in paris 1. scale the eiffel tower built for the 1889 world fair, the 300-meter tower is an engineering feat that was originally hated by locals. they called it “the metal asparagus.” now it’s a symbol of the city. get there early to avoid the lines. 2. the palace of versailles a visit here requires a whole day (don’t skip marie antoinette’s home and spend time walking spacious gardens). summer weekends are the best time to visit the garden, as the fountains are set to music then. admission to the palace is €20 ($22 usd) and admission to both the palace and the gardens is €27 ($30 usd). 3. explore the louvre the louvre is the biggest museum in the world with thousands of square feet of space and millions of works, including everything from the mona lisa to the venus de milo. to see it all, you’ll need at least two full days, but you can do the highlights in a full afternoon. it costs €17 ($19 usd). 4. take in the latin quarter a historic area near the notre dame, the latin quarter is filled with tiny, winding streets that turn at weird angles to open into little cafe-lined squares. i love wandering around here: it always feels like you’re stepping back a few hundred years in history. there are a lot of restaurants, bars, and jazz clubs here. 5. visit sainte-chapelle this is my favorite church in paris. i find this gothic church to be far more beautiful than the nearby notre-dame. it’s tiny, but the (mostly) original interior and stained glass and décor are exquisite, and one of the few remaining examples of original stained glass in france. there’s usually a long line but museum pass holders can skip it. it’s €15 ($17 usd). other things to see and do in paris 1. go museum hopping the louvre might get most of the attention, but there are plenty of other great museums in the city. make sure you especially check out the musee d’orsay for great impressionist work, the amazing rodin museum, holocaust museum (one of the best in the world), musee d’orangerie (more impressionist work), and the interesting sewer museum to start. there are so many museums in the city that you won’t run out of something to see! a museum pass is the most affordable way to do this. a two-day pass costs €48 ($53 usd), a four-day pass costs €62 ($69 usd), and a six-day pass costs €74 ($82 usd). 2. walk the champs elysees this is a very prestigious avenue in paris with cinemas, cafes, luxury specialty shops. it’s also one of the most famous streets in the world, running down from the arc de triomphe to the louvre. it is always busy and always expensive, but it’s a great place to club hop at night or snap photos during the day. come in the very early morning to see the place utterly deserted. it makes for great photos. 3. visit the panthéon located in the latin quarter, this neoclassical building was originally built as a church but was turned into a state burial site for france’s heroes, like marie curie, victor hugo, jean-jacques rousseau, louis braille, and voltaire. the scale of the building is impressive — after all, it the peristyle was inspired by the pantheon in rome. admission is €9 ($10 usd). 4. relax in jardin du luxembourg the jardin du luxembourg is the largest public park in paris. the garden contains just over a hundred statues, monuments, and fountains, all scattered throughout the grounds. in the morning, you’ll see lots of runners. at lunch on a nice day, a park full of people having a picnic (which is something i highly recommend you do!). 5. view the city from montemartre home to starving artists for decades, montmartre offers a stunning view of paris, arty cafés and bars, cobblestone streets, and the only winery within the city limits (vignes du clos montmartre). it’s one of the hipper parts of paris, even if it has lost some of its old grandeur. it’s great for those wanting to visit the hangout spots of folks like hemingway and gertrude stein! 6. visit notre dame paris’s gothic masterpiece was constructed between 1163-1334. climb from the north tower to the south to appreciate the masonry, and get a close-up view of the gallery of chimeras, the fantastic birds and beasts gazing over the balustrade. the outside facade has been cleaned up in recent years but the inside has a bit of that old gothic grimy charm. to climb the tower, it costs €10 ($11 usd). it’s open 10am-5:30pm every day with the exception of some holidays (and it’s open an hour later during the summer). note: notre dame is currently closed due to the 2019 fire. 7. stand under the arc de triomphe this monument stands in the center of the place charles de gaulle and is one of the most famous landmarks in paris. for €8 ($9 usd), visitors can climb 284 steps to reach the top of the arc where they will get information about the city’s history, as well as some panoramic views. it’s one of my favorite spots to see the city. 8. celebrate bastille day every july 14th, a series of spectacular events in paris celebrates the infamous storming of the bastille during the french revolution. there’s a huge, televised parade and a never-ending fireworks display (head to champ de mars or the jardins du trocadéro for the best views of it all). this is french independence day and one of the liveliest days in the country. 9. experience the cinema en plein air every july and august, paris rolls out the inflatable screen in the parc de la villete for this major outdoor cinema event in the 9th arrondissement. it’s hugely popular with locals who tend to bring food and wine! better yet, it’s free! 10. visit maison du victor hugo this beautiful apartment dates to 1605. its most famous resident was the writer victor hugo (author of les misérables and the hunchback of notre dame), who moved here when he was 30. his old apartment is now a museum dedicated to his life and writing. the museum is quite small, but hugo lovers (like me) will find it very interesting. open daily except for mondays from 10am-6pm and it’s free. note: at the time of writing this, the building has been closed for renovations. 11. climb through the paris catacombs underneath the city of paris, you’ll find a honeycomb of tunnels. the french resistance used these tunnels during world war ii, and rave parties flourished there during the 90s. within this maze of tunnels, lie the famous catacombs of paris. here you can visit the tunnels and see the old burial sites of the city. it’s one of the freakiest and coolest sites in paris, oftentimes missed by tourists. they’re open daily 10am-8:30pm except for mondays. guided tours start from €72 ($80 usd), but you can do audio guide tours from €40 ($44 usd). 12. dance the night away whether it’s modern clubs you like or classic jazz joints, you shouldn’t leave paris without tasting the music that attracted some of the best musicians and artists to the city. there is an especially abundant amount of good jazz clubs in the city. 13. walk amongst the tombstones the pere-lachaise graveyard is paris’ most famous cemetery. it’s a peaceful and hauntingly-beautiful area worth exploring. if you look closely you’ll be able to spot the graves of a handful of famous people (jim morrison, chopin, and oscar wilde are all buried here.) 14. visit the mémorial de la shoah despite having an excellent exhibit on france, anti-semitism, and the holocaust, the mémorial de la shoah never draws a lot of people. it’s a real shame, as the information and collection here is really great and in-depth. i’ve been to many holocaust museums, and this is one of the best and most detailed in the world. i highly recommend it. 15. take a walking tour there are dozens upon dozens of companies covering all aspects of life in paris, and it can be hard to make a sense of all those endless viator and tripadvisor listings. some are free like new europe’s tour where they’ll take you around the center of paris and give you a historical overview of the city. walks offer amazing in-depth tours starting from about €55 ($61 usd) where you’ll get specialized guides and skip the line to big attractions, like the louvre. i wrote a whole guide to the best walking tours in paris! 16. take a food tour you’re in france, you’ve got to appreciate the food! paris by mouth is a company that offers a handful of neighborhood tours highlighting the best food in paris. the groups are kept small (no more than eight people) and they are really focused on providing a lot of information on food, history, and culture. it’s like a mini-class more than it is a chance to just eat food (though you do that too). they even have a workshop just for cheese. tours are from €110 ($122 usd). (hey there! wait one second! did you know i also wrote an entire guidebook to paris filled with – not only even more detailed information on the things included on this page but also itineraries, practical information (i.e. hours of operation, phone numbers, websites, prices, etc), cultural insights, and so much more? it has everything you want in a guidebook – but with a focus on budget and cultural travel! if you want to go into more depth and have something to take on your trip, click here for more about the book!) paris travel costs hostel prices – during peak season, a bed in an eight bed room (or more) will cost from about €33 ($37 usd) per night. a bed in a four-six bed room will cost between €45-54 ($50-60 usd) per night. you can find beds for as low as €23 ($25 usd) per night, but they’re either far from town or have low ratings. in the off-season, a bed in an eight bed room (or more) will cost from about ($20 usd) per night, while a four to six bed room will cost from about €24 ($27 usd). a basic single private room with an ensuite bathroom costs from €108 ($120 usd) per night during peak season. in the off-season, a single private room with an ensuite bathroom costs from about €70 ($77 usd) per night. budget hotel prices – nightly rates for a budget two-star hotel room start at about €113 ($125 usd) per night in peak season. in the off-season, budget rooms start from €90 ($100 usd). on airbnb, you can find shared rooms in apartments averaging about €31 ($35 usd) per night. the average private room is €52 ($58 usd), while the average price for a full apartment is about €106 ($117 usd) per night. average cost of food – luckily, buying your own food is cheap. there are many bread, cheese, markets, and meat shops throughout the city. it’s common to pick up some ingredients and have a picnic in one of the city’s many parks. creating your own meal will cost around €9-15 ($10-17 usd), depending on what you buy and if you get wine. eating pre-made sandwiches from the city’s takeaway shops, crepes, or fast food generally costs between €6-10 ($7-11 usd). if you want to eat at a restaurant (the french are known for their culinary skills, after all!), try doing a “prix-fixe” meal. it’s a set menu that offers you a deal on a 2-3 course meal for about €20 ($22 usd). to save even more money, consider lunch instead of dinner (which, in france, is still typically two courses). expect to pay between €25-40 ($28-44 usd) for dinner at a nice restaurant including wine. try to avoid the tourist areas, where prices around about 10-30% higher, if you want to save money. if you’re cooking for yourself, you can expect to pay about €50 ($55 usd) for a week’s worth of groceries (basic staples), but if you find a discount grocer like aldi or lidl, you’ll pay way less. backpacking paris suggested budgets if you’re backpacking paris, my suggested budget is about €60 ($67 usd) per day. this budget will cover staying in a hostel dorm, making your own meals, eating a prix-fixe lunch, taking public transit twice a day, and admission to main attractions like the louvre and the eiffel tower. a mid-range budget of about €207 ($230 usd) will cover a room at a two-star budget hotel or a private hostel room, eating out at cheap restaurants, unlimited daily transit, and a couple of paid attractions per day. if you stick to mostly free attractions and eat cheaper, you can reduce this budget by about €40 ($45 usd). for a luxury budget of €415 ($460 usd) or more, you can do pretty much anything you want. you will stay in a four-star hotel, eat at excellent restaurants for all your meals, enjoy some wine, and do some tours. the sky is your limit! these are all focussed on peak season prices. if you come during the shoulder season or in the winter, you can reduce your accommodation budget by nearly 50%. you can use the chart below to get some idea of how much you need to budget daily. keep in mind these are daily averages – some days you’ll spend more, some days you’ll spend less (you might spend less every day). we just want to give you a general idea of how to make your budget. prices are in usd. accommodation food transportation attractions average daily cost backpacker $37 $20 $20 $5 $72 mid-range $125 $50 $40 $15 $230 luxury $270 $100 $60 $80 $460 paris travel guide: money saving tips since paris is so expensive, it’s important to find ways to save money. luckily, there are a lot of ways to do so while still experiencing the city’s beauty, charm, and cuisine. if you want to lower your costs, here are some ways to save money in paris: get discounts at the louvre – the louvre is free after 6pm on fridays if you’re under 26, and on the first sunday of october to march. it is closed on tuesdays. it’s located in the center of the city and has two metro stops – both marked “louvre.” get off at either one. if you enter from the louvre stop, you’ll be able to skip the line. buy a metro card – paris has over 300 subway stations, so it is easy to get around the city. a day pass is only €13.20 ($15 usd). moreover, if you buy 10 tickets or a “carnet”, it only costs about €14.50 ($16 usd), much cheaper than the €1.90 ($2.10 usd) for each individual ticket. the day pass, called parisvisite, also gives you discounts to some major parisian landmarks. have a picnic – with so many beautiful parks and outdoor gardens, it would be hard not to take advantage of this. eating in paris is cheap when you do your own shopping. buy some bread, cheese, and meat at the local shops and have an outdoor picnic. it’s fun and will cost you a fraction of what a restaurant would. paris museum pass – this is a prepaid card that gets you access to over 70 museums and monuments around paris. a two-day pass costs €48 ($53 usd), a four-day pass costs €62 ($69 usd), and a six-day pass costs €74 ($82 usd). this is perfect for the museum hopper and for anyone that wants to save money and get ahead in line. since most people visit lots of museums in the city, you’re pretty much guaranteed to save money. paris pass – this is a super-sized version of the paris museum pass and is for people who are going to be doing heavy sightseeing in a short period of time. you can purchase a two-day pass for €130 ($144 usd), a three-day pass for €165 ($183 usd), a four-day pass for €205 ($227 usd), or a six-day pass for €245 ($271 usd). it includes a ton of sights, the ability to skip lines, and a free hop-on, hop-off bus tour (in addition to everything in the paris museum pass). free museum admission – all national museums are free admission on the first sunday of every month. if you happen to hit this day, be aware of potentially large crowds and long lines. dine out during lunch – food in paris is not cheap. it will cost you an arm and a leg to eat here but during lunch, restaurants do a pre-fixe menu for between €10-15 ($11-17 usd). it’s the same food you would buy for dinner but at half the cost. when i eat out in paris, i do so during lunch so i can still eat amazing french food without it eating my entire wallet! cook your meals – the best way to save money on the road is to cook your own meals. many hostels, campsites, and guesthouses have kitchens. no kitchen? pack your own container and silverware and make some sandwiches and salads on the go. couchsurf – there are a lot of hosts in this city and with restaurants and accommodation so much, i highly recommend trying to find a host on the website where you can get a kitchen, a place to stay, and local friend to show you around. the community here is very active and friendly! save money on rideshares – uber is way cheaper than taxis and are the best way to get around a city if you don’t want to wait for a bus or pay for a taxi. the uber pool option is where can you share a ride to get even better savings (though you can get your own car too). you can save $15 off your first uber ride with this code: jlx6v. take a free walking tour – if you want to get a great overview of paris, take a free walking tour with new europe tours. don’t forget to tip! remember that water is free – when you order water at a restaurant, make sure you ask for tap water. they’ll try to provide bottled water and charge you for it, but tap water is free and safe to drink. (hey there! wait one second! did you know i also wrote an entire guidebook to paris filled with – not only even more detailed information on the things included on this page but also itineraries, practical information (i.e. hours of operation, phone numbers, websites, prices, etc), cultural insights, and so much more? it has everything you want in a guidebook – but with a focus on budget and cultural travel! if you want to go into more depth and have something to take on your trip, click here for more about the book!) where to stay in paris paris has lots of hostel and budget accommodation options. the city is so large that everything is about picking the neighbourhood you want and then finding the place in that area. here are my recommended places to stay in paris: st. christopher’s canal the loft boutique hostel les piaules st. christopher’s gare du nord st. christopher’s gare du nord for more hostel suggestions be sure to check out my list of the top 15 hostels in paris. and, to find out exactly where in the city you should stay, here’s a post that breakdowns the best neighborhoods in paris. how to get around paris metro – the paris public transport system is one of the world’s most comprehensive and efficient. every other block has a metro (subway) stop. a single-use metro/bus ticket costs €1.90/$2.10 usd) (€2/$2.20 usd if you buy it on the bus). a “carnet” of 10 single-use tickets costs about €14.50 ($16 usd). you can get a one day to five day pass (a parisvisite) for all modes of public transportation (bus, metro, trams, and suburban trains called the rer) for between €13.20-42.20 ($15-47 usd). it also gives you discounts to some major parisian landmarks. you can buy tickets at any metro station. (note: there are cheaper day passes available if you are under 26, as well as discounted prices on weekends and holidays, but they are only explained on the french website. if you can speak passable french, and are under 26, you can ask for those reduced fares instead.) rer train – the rer is an above-ground train that has five lines serving paris and il-de-france. it works exactly like the metro, and uses the same tickets, although you’ll have to use your ticket in the automatic barriers on your way out of the station as well (unlike the metro). if you have a connecting journey with the metro, you can use the same ticket. bus – there are 64 bus lines in paris’s metro network. if you already have your single-use metro/bus ticket, it costs €1.90/$2.10 usd. otherwise you’ll have to buy a ticket on the bus for €2 ($2.20 usd). your parisvisite pass also works on the bus. tram – there are four tram lines in paris that navigate the city’s perimeter. they work on the same ticketing system as the metro, rer, and bus. bike-sharing – velib’ is paris’s public bike sharing program. as a user, you’ll pay a flat fee for as many trips per day or per week as you like, and if you end up biking for less than 30 minutes during a trip, you won’t be charged above the subscription fee. a one-day pass is €5 ($5.55 usd) and a week pass is €15 ($17 usd), plus €1 ($1.10 usd) per 30 minutes after the first 30-minute trip. taxi – taxis in the city are expensive (rides cost a minimum of €6.50/$7.20 usd regardless of where you are going) and, with the metro running late into the night, there’s little reason to take them. avoid them if you can. uber – uber is available in paris. you can save $15 off your first uber ride with this code: jlx6v. when to go to paris the best time to visit is may, early june, september, or october, when there are fewer crowds and the weather is still sunny and warm. temperatures are often around 20–23ºc (68–73ºf) during these months. this is a good season to stroll around outside without tons of layers on or the sweltering sun beating down on you. prices for accommodation and activities also tend to be lower these times of year. summer is the most popular (and most expensive) season to visit, when the weather is warm and dry. while the weather will be optimal, that also means the crowds will be large and wait times for major attractions will be longer. if you are visiting in the summer, be sure to book your accommodation and activities in advance! average daily summer temperatures are in the high 70°fs (low 20°cs). winter can be dark and chilly, but while the weather may not be perfect, paris is particularly beautiful in the winter. it’s also the best time to find cheap airfare and hotel deals. although paris is never free from tourists, it does get less crowded at this time of year. this can be a great time to visit if you plan on spending most of your time in museums and historic sites. it’s also the rainiest during this time. (hey there! wait one second! did you know i also wrote an entire guidebook to paris filled with – not only even more detailed information on the things included on this page but also itineraries, practical information (i.e. hours of operation, phone numbers, websites, prices, etc), cultural insights, and so much more? it has everything you want in a guidebook – but with a focus on budget and cultural travel! if you want to go into more depth and have something to take on your trip, click here for more about the book!) how to stay safe in paris paris is very safe, and the risk of violent crime is very low. pick-pocketing is the biggest concern here, especially on public transit. don’t walk around at night by yousrelf in certain neighborhoods, like gare du nord, stalingrad, jaures, and les halles. due to some high profile terrorist attacks in europe in recent years (particularly paris), it’s reasonable to be nervous about visiting. i wrote a whole article about why europe is safe to visit right now. if you’re worried about getting scammed, you can read about the 14 travel scams to avoid right here. people are generally friendly and helpful, and you’re unlikely to get into trouble. always trust your gut instinct. avoid isolated areas at night, and be aware of your surroundings at all times. make copies of your personal documents, including your passport and id. if you don’t do it at home, don’t do it in paris! follow that rule, and you’ll be fine. the most important piece of advice i can offer is to purchase good travel insurance. travel insurance will protect you against illness, injury, theft, and cancellations. it’s comprehensive protection in case anything goes wrong. i never go on a trip without it as i’ve had to use it many times in the past. paris travel guide: the best booking resources these are my favorite companies to use when i travel to paris. they are included here because they consistently find deals, offer world-class customer service and great value, and overall, are better than their competitors. they are the ones i use the most and are always the starting points in my search for travel deals. momondo – this is my favorite booking site. i never book a flight without checking here first. skyscanner – skyscanner is another great flight search engline which searches a lot of different airlines, including many of the budget carriers that larger sites miss. while i always start with momondo, i use this site too as a way to compare prices. airbnb – airbnb is a great accommodation alternative for connecting with homeowners who rent out their homes or apartments. (if you’re new to airbnb, get $35 off your first stay!) hostelworld – this is the best hostel accommodation site out there, with the largest inventory, best search interface, and widest availability. couchsurfing – this website allows you to stay on people’s couches or spare rooms for free. it’s a great way to save money while meeting locals who can tell you the ins and outs of their city. the site also lists events you can attend to meet people (even if you’re not staying with someone). booking.com – the best all around booking site that constantly provides the cheapest and lowest rates. they have a no money down policy, great interface, and the widest selection of budget accommodation. in all my tests, they’ve always had the cheapest rates out of all bookers. rail europe – if you are going to europe and taking a lot of high speed or long distance trains, get a rail pass. i’ve used a rail pass three times and saved hundreds of dollars each time. the math just works. intrepid travel – if you want to do a group tour around europe, go with intrepid travel. they offer good small group tours that use local operators and leave a small environmental footprint. if you go on a tour with anyone, go with them. and, as a reader of this site, you’ll get exclusive discounts when you click the link! sta travel – a good company for those under 30 or for students, sta travel offers discounted airfare as well as travel passes that help you save on attractions. world nomads – i buy all my travel insurance from world nomads. they have great customer service, competitive prices, and in-depth coverage. i’ve been using them since i started traveling in 2003. don’t leave home without it! eatwith – this website allows you to eat home cooked meal with locals. locals post listings for dinner parties and specialty meals that you can sign up for. there is a fee (everyone sets their own price) but this is a great way to do something different, pick a local’s brain, and make a new friend. take walks – a day tour company in europe. what makes them so good is they get you inside access to attractions and places you can’t get elsewhere. their guides rock too! fat tire tours – if you want to see alot of sights in a short amount of time, take a bike tour with fat tire tours. they use expert local guides and their tours are always fun and informative. go deeper: nomadic matt’s in-depth budget guide to paris! there’s a lot of free information online but do you want to spend days searching for information? prob not! that’s why guidebooks exist. while i have a lot of free tips on paris, i also wrote an entire book that goes into great detail on everything you need to plan a trip here on a budget! you’ll get suggested itineraries, budgets, even more ways to save money, my favorites restaurants, prices, practical information (i.e. phone numbers, websites, prices, safety advice, etc etc), and cultural tips. i’ll give the insider view of paris that i got from living and running tours here! the downloadable guide can be used on your kindle, ipad, phone, or computer so you can have it with you when you go. click here to learn more about my book on paris! paris gear and packing guide if you’re heading to paris, here are my suggestions for the best travel backpack and tips on what to pack for your trip. the best backpack for paris what’s the best backpack for traveling around paris? i recommend the rei flash 45 pack. it’s light and comfy, front loading, and fits perfectly in an airplane’s overhead bin. size: 45-47l straps: thick and cushy with compression technology that pulls the pack’s load up and inwards so it doesn’t feel as heavy. features: removable top lid, large pocket at the front, hydration compatible, contoured hip belt if you want something different, refer to my article on how to choose the best travel backpack for tips on picking a pack and other backpack suggestions. what to pack for paris clothes 1 pair of jeans (heavy and not easily dried, but i like them; a good alternative is khaki pants) 1 pair of shorts 1 bathing suit 5 t-shirts 1 long-sleeved t-shirt 1 pair of flip-flops 1 pair of sneakers 6 pairs of socks (i always end up losing half) 5 pairs of boxer shorts (i’m not a briefs guy!) 1 toothbrush 1 tube of toothpaste 1 razor 1 package of dental floss 1 small bottle of shampoo 1 small bottle of shower gel 1 towel deodorant small medical kit (safety is important!!!) band-aids hydrocortisone cream antibacterial cream earplugs tylenol hand sanitizer (germs = sick = bad holiday) miscellaneous a key or combination lock (safety first) zip-lock bags (keeps things from leaking or exploding) plastic bags (great for laundry) universal charger/adaptor (this applies to everyone) lifestraw (a water bottle with a purifier) female travel packing list i’m not a woman, so i don’t know what a woman wears, but kristin addis, our solo female travel guru, wrote this list as an addition to the basics above: clothing 1 swimsuit 1 sarong 1 pair of stretchy jeans (they wash and dry easily) 1 pair of leggings (if it’s cold, they can go under your jeans, otherwise with a dress or shirt) 2-3 long-sleeve tops 2-3 t-shirts 3-4 spaghetti tops 1 light cardigan toiletries 1 dry shampoo spray & talc powder (keeps long hair grease-free in between washes) 1 hairbrush makeup you use hair bands & hair clips feminine hygiene products (you can opt to buy there too, but i prefer not to count on it, and most people have their preferred products) for more on packing, check out these posts: what i pack for my travels the ultimate list for female travelers how to choose and buy the right backpack france travel guide: suggested reading les misérables, by victor hugo this one is a classic you can’t pass up! jean valjean, a peasant imprisoned for stealing bread, is one of the most famous literary characters in history. victor hugo takes us through 19th century parisian life, and the uprising of 1832. it follows the story of valjean and his persecution by inspector javert, the struggles of prostitute fantine, and the immoral behavior of miscreant thénardier. it’s a clear criticism of the french political and legal systems. a moveable feast, by ernest hemingway if there is one era i’d want to visit more than any other, it’s paris in the 1920s. hemingway’s memoir is the next best thing. it was published after hemingway’s death, and recalls the time he spent living in paris where he developed his writing career. broke but happy, he spent his time writing in cafes along with other notorious authors like zelda fitzgerald and james joyce. paris was ours, by penelope rowlands this book showcases the work of 32 writers from around the world who moved to paris. they share personal stories of how they learned to cook, study, and integrate into parisian life. this book dives into the good, the bad, and the ugly but shows just how much of a lasting effect paris can have on people, even decades after they move away. if you are as obsessed with paris as i am, you’ll love the book. this book gives you an amazing perspective on the city – because you get to see the city through the eyes’ of so many people! a year in provence, by peter mayle i’d heard of this book before but never bothered to pick it up until multiple readers recommended it to me. i’m glad i finally read it — it was incredible. an autobiographical novel following the author peter mayle’s year living in provence, it details the struggles and joys of adapting to a new culture. i loved the interesting characters he meets and his description of the slow pace of life in france (which was a clear departure from his previous life in england). as a francophile, this book makes me want to move to france even more. wonderfully and wistfully written, i can understand why it continues to be such a classic. almost french: love and a new life in paris, by sarah turnbull sarah turnbull’s visit to the city of light was supposed to last a week, but she ends up staying permanently with the guy she had traveled to paris to visit (paris has that effect on people). this book follows turnbull’s life in the city as she navigates the highs and lows of trying to fit into a foreign culture while slowly falling more and more in love with it. its a fish-out-of-water tale and clichéd at many times, but it offers lessons on embracing life in a foreign culture that will never really accept you as one of its own. funny and witty, i found it to be a fun pager turner. my other must have guides for traveling to france how to get free flights this book shows you how to easily collect and redeem travel points so you can get free airfare and accommodation. conquering mountains: the guide to solo female travel kristin addis writes our solo female travel column and her detailed guide gives specific advice and tips for women travelers. backpacking europe get the definitive guide to backpacking europe! learn more about what to do, what to see, where to go, stay, eat, and how to save money. how to travel the world on $50 a day my best-selling book will teach how to master the art of travel so that you’ll save money and have a more local, richer travel experience. paris travel guide: related articles want more info? check out all the articles i’ve written on backpacking/traveling france and continue planning your trip: the best walking tours in paris 13 off-the-beaten-path things to see and do in paris life in paris, part 3: nothing lasts forever the 10 best day trips from paris life in paris, part 2: only one month left life in paris: one month downclick here for more articles---> photo credits: 5 get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site see and do costs where to stay how to get around when to go stay safe gear and packing guides related blogs