main navigation main navigation menu wordpress.com wordpress.com icon & logo. products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips let’s partner to make the web a better place. if you’ve got an idea, a product, or a business that can make the web a better place to publish and share, we’re all ears. contact us who we are started in 2005, the wordpress.com network welcomes more than 400+ million people viewing more than 15 billion pages each month. our users publish about 40+ million new posts and leave 60+ million new comments each month. these stats are current as of january 2019. powers 36% of the internet 400m+ people 40m+ new posts/mo 15b+ pageviews/mo 60m+ new comments/mo partnering with us as an open source platform, collaboration has been the bedrock of our growth, ensuring a strong community and product. we continue this model by partnering with companies, organizations, and individuals in a variety of ways. if you have technology or product features, are a marketing or publishing platform, offer a service our customers might benefit from, or simply want to discuss something else, we’d love to hear about it. to begin a conversation, use the form below. 40m+ new posts per month 15b+ monthly page views 60m+ new comments per month all set? contact us! please tell us more about yourself and your interest in partnering with wordpress.com. we review every single inquiry and should respond to you within a week. please contact our wordpress.com vip, jetpack, or woocommerce teams directly. to learn more about building a wordpress.com integration, visit our developer page. to become an affiliate, please visit our affiliate program. … and thanks! name * email * phone number * company * share your idea or tell us what you’d like to discuss. * submit bottom navigation menu themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo