about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans) 197 comments jump to recipe the italians have graced us with countless delicious recipes. this is indisputable! i’ve loved pizza and spaghetti for as long as i can remember, of course, but i’ve only recently discovered pasta e fagioli. pasta e fagioli translates to “pasta and beans.” pasta and beans may not sound terribly enticing (unless you’re me), but i assure you that this italian stew is truly irresistible. lots of aromatics, crushed tomatoes, fresh parsley and tuscan kale turn pasta and beans into a hearty meal-in-a-bowl situation. i can’t claim that this recipe is 100 percent authentic, but it’s the best i can do. if you appreciate homemade minestrone soup, marinara, lasagna or baked ziti, i think you’ll love this stew. it’ll warm you right up on cold days, and tastes even better the next day. i designed this pasta e fagioli recipe to make use of canned beans, so this stew is ready in about an hour! i bet you have most of the ingredients in your kitchen already. it’s an excellent candidate for a relaxed weeknight. how to make the best pasta e fagioli how do we turn basic ingredients into something magical? the trick is in the method. you’ll find the full recipe below, but here’s a rundown with some extra reasoning behind it: first, we’ll cook chopped onion, celery and carrot in olive oil until tender. we won’t cook them long enough to form a true soffritto, but they form the backbone of flavor in this dish nonetheless. then, we’ll add garlic and cook just long enough to take the edge off (there’s nothing worse than burnt garlic flavor, and it’ll have plenty of time to continue cooking as we simmer the soup). next, add crushed tomatoes and let them come to a healthy simmer—i’m convinced cooking canned tomatoes turns them from tinny to vibrant. we’ll pour in one quart of vegetable broth and a few cups water. the water adds volume without additional sodium. we’re cooking the pasta in the liquid, so we need plenty of it, but i’m getting ahead of myself. we’ll season the soup with bay leaves, dried oregano, and red pepper flakes, and cook for ten minutes to bring it all together. i want to say that the blending step is optional (and if you don’t have a blender, you can certainly skip it), but—this step is what produces the luscious, creamy-yet-cream-less texture you see here. all we do is scoop out some of the hot liquid and blend it with a portion of the beans. pour it back in, and your soup has been transformed. almost done! we’ll add the remaining beans, plus the pasta, kale and parsley. we’ll cook until the pasta and kale are tender. the final step, once we’ve removed the soup from the heat, is to add even more flavor with a tablespoon each of fresh lemon juice and olive oil. taste it before and after (carefully!) and you’ll understand what a difference this makes. watch how to make pasta e fagioli please let me know how your pasta e fagioli turns out in the comments! i’m always so happy to hear from you. craving more soups this winter? if you love this recipe, you’ll also enjoy: classic minestrone soup the best lentil soup seriously good vegetable soup homemade vegetarian chili quinoa vegetable soup with kale print pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans) author: cookie and kate prep time: 20 minutes cook time: 40 minutes total time: 1 hour yield: 6 bowls 1x category: stew method: stovetop cuisine: italian ★★★★★ 4.9 from 86 reviews pasta e fagioli means “pasta and beans” in italian—this recipe is much more than that! this hearty vegetarian stew is full of irresistible fresh flavor. it’s vegan, too, as long as you don’t top it with cheese. recipe yields 6 bowls or 8 cups of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided 1 medium-to-large yellow onion, finely chopped 2 carrots, scrubbed clean, finely chopped 2 ribs celery, finely chopped ¾ teaspoon fine sea salt, divided freshly ground black pepper, to taste 4 cloves garlic, pressed or minced 1 can (15 ounces) crushed tomatoes* 4 cups vegetable broth 3 cups water 2 bay leaves 1 teaspoon dried oregano ¼ teaspoon red pepper flakes, omit if sensitive to spice 2 cans (15 ounces each) cannellini beans, great northern beans, or chickpeas, rinsed and drained (or 3 cups cooked beans) 1 cup (about 4 ounces) cavatelli, ditalini, elbow or small shell pasta of choice 2 cups chopped tuscan kale (tough ribs removed first), or chard or collard greens ¼ cup finely chopped italian parsley 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice (about ½ medium lemon) optional garnishes: additional chopped parsley, black pepper, grated parmesan cheese or light drizzle of olive oil instructions in a large dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat, warm 3 tablespoons of the olive oil until shimmering. add the chopped onion, carrot, celery, ½ teaspoon of the salt, and about 10 twists of black pepper. cook, stirring often, until the vegetables have softened and the onions are turning translucent, about 6 to 10 minutes. add the garlic and cook, stirring constantly, until fragrant, about 30 seconds. add the tomatoes, stir, and cook until the tomatoes are bubbling all over. add the broth, water, bay leaves, oregano, and red pepper flakes. raise the heat to medium-high and bring the mixture to a simmer. cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, and reducing the heat as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer. use a heat-safe measuring cup to transfer about 1 ½ cups of the soup (avoiding the bay leaves) to a blender. add about ¾ cup of the drained beans. securely fasten the lid and blend until completely smooth, being careful to avoid hot steam escaping from the lid. pour the blended mixture back into the soup. add the remaining beans, pasta, kale and parsley to the simmering soup. continue cooking, stirring often to prevent the pasta from sticking to the bottom of the pot, for about 20 minutes, or until the pasta and greens are pleasantly tender. remove the pot from the heat, then remove and discard the bay leaves. stir in the lemon juice, the remaining tablespoon of olive oil, and remaining ¼ teaspoon salt. taste and season with more salt (i usually add another ¼ teaspoon) and pepper until the flavors really sing. garnish bowls of soup as desired, and serve. leftovers taste even better the next day. allow leftover soup to cool to room temperature, then cover and refrigerate for up to 5 days. or, freeze leftover soup in individual portions and defrost as necessary. notes recipe adapted from my minestrone recipe, with reference to bon appétit (and their comments section!). *tomato recommendation: i always use muir glen tomatoes, and used their fire-roasted crushed tomatoes since they don’t offer plain. make it gluten free: use a small, sturdy, gluten-free noodle, such as a corn and quinoa blend. make it dairy free/vegan: don’t add cheese. simple as that. if you don’t have a stand blender: you can use an immersion blender to blend (carefully) a portion of the liquid with the beans in a separate (heat-safe) container. or, skip this step altogether. your soup will be a little more chunky and less creamy, but still very good. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes quinoa vegetable soup with kale classic minestrone soup lemony green pasta with peas & ricotta share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, egg free, fall, italian, main dishes, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients chard, kale, pasta, white beans ↢ newer my top 10 tools for healthy cooking older ↣ what to cook this january by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) robyn march 8, 2020 wow!!!!!! this might be the best soup/stew i have ever made. followed recipe exactly – had to sub dried parsley for fresh and garnished with pecorino romano. reply kate march 12, 2020 i love to hear that! thanks for sharing, robyn. reply lauren jane march 9, 2020 i made this last night and it was delicious! blending a portion of the broth with the beans created such a luscious consistency. i added a little more crushed red pepper for some extra spice plus a teaspoon of miso while it was simmering for some extra richness. so so so tasty!!! ★★★★★ reply kate march 11, 2020 i’m so happy you loved it, lauren! i appreciate your review. reply frances march 10, 2020 i used your recipe, however, i added a package of mild italian sausage, casings removed, and a pound of ground beef both cooked prior to adding to pot. it was delicious. ★★★★★ reply kate march 12, 2020 i’m happy you loved it, frances! thanks for your review. reply claire a watson march 13, 2020 i love how you can double the recipe with just a click- even the text part! great recipe btw! this one is in the regular winter rotation! ★★★★★ reply rita p. march 14, 2020 hi kate, made this soup yesterday, absolutely delicious!!!! for my husband to say that this soup is better than his mother’s, you know that it has to be good. the flavor is even better the next day. thank you for all of your wonderful, healthy recipes and tips. we especially like the apple muffins and banana bread/muffins as well. many compliments, rita ★★★★★ reply martha march 14, 2020 love this recipe. used can of diced tomatoes, as it was all i had. added a couple table spoons of tomato paste. it was hearty and very tasty ★★★★★ reply angelo ciotti march 16, 2020 this recipe yields a dish as close to my mother’s as i have found! my mom has been gone near 40 years but always right next to me when i have pasta e fagoli ★★★★★ reply alma march 20, 2020 loved this recipe!! i topped it with brazil nut parmesan and it was perfection! ★★★★★ reply kate march 20, 2020 thank you for trying it! reply josie march 22, 2020 it’s a cold march day here in france during the lockdown so this stew was very comforting. delicious & easy to make with staple ingredients! ★★★★★ reply meghan march 22, 2020 amazing soup, my husband and i loved this so much. we paired it with your garlic bread recipe and it was so good! ★★★★★ reply gina march 24, 2020 is it possible to sub tomato paste somehow for the can of tomatoes? reply kate march 25, 2020 hi gina! yes, i think you could substitute a few tablespoons of tomato paste. reply odette march 25, 2020 this was the best pasta fagiole. you would have thought nonna made this. my fussy vegetarian daughter absolutely loved it. so did my italian husband. thank you ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 hooray! i’m glad she could enjoy it too, odette:) reply lee march 26, 2020 kale in pasta e fagioli? no pancetta? no parmigiana or pecorino? reply kate march 27, 2020 hi lee! i tried to keep this as authentic as i good, but also adding my touch :) reply anna march 27, 2020 this soup tastes absolutely wonderful. i’ve cooked it a few times already and it’s become a regular vegetarian meal in my kitchen. my daughter, who is not fond of beans, loves it! thank you for this fantastic recipe ★★★★★ reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}