kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about pbs see also... tv video movies science ken burns trailers war physics civil rights politics gunsgermsandsteel jared diamond stream ken burns’ baseball documentary series for free on pbs posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 it would have been opening day for baseball here in the us. since we’re without the actual thing due to covid-19, ken burns asked pbs to allow people to stream his 18-hour documentary series on baseball from 1994 for free (us & canada). here’s part one: (via open culture) more about... baseball ken burns pbs sports tv video ads via carbon frontline - amazon empire: the rise and reign of jeff bezos posted by jason kottke feb 20, 2020 from pbs’s frontline comes amazon empire: the rise and reign of jeff bezos, a feature-length documentary investigation into amazon and its founder. jeff bezos is not only the richest man in the world, he has built a business that is without precedent in the history of american capitalism. his power to shape everything from the future of work to the future of commerce to the future of technology is unrivaled. as politicians and regulators around the world start to consider the global impact of amazon — and how to rein in bezos’ power — frontline investigates how he executed a plan to build one of the most influential economic and cultural forces in the world. one of the 10 key takeaways from the film is how deliberately amazon attacked the publishing industry: “amazon took over a large market share of the publishing industry very, very fast,” james marcus, a former senior amazon.com editor, tells frontline — a situation that he says prompted publishers to realize, “‘oh, wait a minute, they’re our partner, but they now have the beginnings of a boot on our windpipe’.” inside the company, the team had launched a strategy that some called “the gazelle project,” because they’d heard bezos wanted them to pursue publishers the way a cheetah pursues a sickly gazelle. “well, you don’t go after the strongest,” randy miller, who ran the european book team, says of the strategy. “he’s like, ‘the cheetah. the cheetah looks for the weak, looks for the sick, looks for the small.’” that way, by the time it comes to take on the publishers at the top, “the noise has gotten back to them. they’re going to know this is coming, and chances are you may be able to settle that without a full-on war.” here’s a trailer but the whole thing is available online, embedded above and on youtube. more about... amazon jeff bezos pbs tv video how miles davis made “kind of blue” posted by jason kottke feb 20, 2020 from the feature-length documentary miles davis: birth of the cool that’s debuting on pbs’s american masters next week, this is a short clip about how miles’ masterpiece, kind of blue, came together in the studio. miles davis didn’t provide sheet music for his musicians during the recording of his iconic album “kind of blue.” he said that “i didn’t write out the music for ‘kind of blue.’ but brought in sketches ‘cause i wanted a lot of spontaneity in the playing.” here’s the trailer and a couple of other clips from the film. (via @tedgioia) more about... miles davis miles davis: birth of the cool movies pbs trailers tv video the civil war, remastered posted by jason kottke sep 07, 2015 twenty-five years after its first airing on pbs, ken burns has remastered his epic documentary, the civil war, and pbs will be airing the new version all this week, starting tonight. the remastered series will also be available on blu-ray in october. more about... civil war ken burns pbs the civil war tv video war the roosevelts posted by jason kottke may 08, 2014 the next ken burns pbs long thing will be a seven-part series on the roosevelts (theodore, eleanor, and franklin). this seven-part, fourteen hour film follows the roosevelts for more than a century, from theodore’s birth in 1858 to eleanor’s death in 1962. over the course of those years, theodore would become the 26th president of the united states and his beloved niece, eleanor, would marry his fifth cousin, franklin, who became the 32nd president of the united states. together, these three individuals not only redefined the relationship americans had with their government and with each other, but also redefined the role of the united states within the wider world. the series encompasses the history the roosevelts helped to shape: the creation of national parks, the digging of the panama canal, the passage of innovative new deal programs, the defeat of hitler, and the postwar struggles for civil rights at home and human rights abroad. it is also an intimate human story about love, betrayal, family loyalty, personal courage and the conquest of fear. fall 2014. (via @tcarmody) more about... eleanor roosevelt franklin roosevelt ken burns pbs theodore roosevelt the roosevelts tv llectuals posted by jason kottke aug 08, 2008 ‘llectuals is like gossip girls or 90210, except it’s on pbs and for english majors. girls gone wilde! (thx, matt) more about... pbs video set thy tivos: 49 up, the latest in posted by jason kottke oct 09, 2007 set thy tivos: 49 up, the latest in a series of documentary films in which the same group of people are interviewed every seven years, is on pbs tonight. it’s a cruel trick to confront people with the cold reality of the past. despite that, some enjoy being in the film and claim it as a thing to treasure; others take part under sufferance, persuaded that the films are unique and we should finish what we started. i thank them all for their generosity and courage in making these films possible. watch the trailer. (thx, mark) more about... 49up movies pbs sevenup trailers as those of you who love slow posted by jason kottke sep 06, 2007 as those of you who love slow pans over black and white photography are already aware, ken burns has a new documentary coming out on pbs on sept 23. the war “explores the history and horror of world war ii from an american perspective by following the fortunes of so-called ordinary men and women who became caught up in one of the greatest cataclysms in human history” in 7 episodes spanning over 15 hours. a 26-minute video preview is available on the pbs site and the dvd is already available for pre-order on amazon. more about... kenburns movies pbs thewar tv war world war ii i love youtube. this is a video posted by jason kottke apr 05, 2007 i love youtube. this is a video clip of a chef pulling noodle dough, doubling it over 12 times until the noodles are unbelievably fine. the clip is from a 1987 pbs science show that i watched once when i was 14[1] and i’ve remembered it ever since as one of the simplest, coolest, and most concrete illustrations of mathematics i’ve ever seen. (via seriouseats) [1] ooh, watching science shows on pbs at 14….how popular was i in school? more about... food mathematics pbs science tv video caught the first episode of wired science posted by jason kottke jan 05, 2007 caught the first episode of wired science on pbs last night and it wasn’t so bad. it’s like wired magazine, but on tv. if you missed it, the entire show is available online. more about... pbs science tv wired wiredscience “the mpemba effect is the observation that, posted by jason kottke dec 14, 2006 “the mpemba effect is the observation that, in some specific circumstances, hotter water freezes faster than colder water.” i remember hearing about this on an old episode of newton’s apple, but i think they never really got to the bottom of it on that show, which was highly disappointing to me at the time. more about... mpembaeffect newtonsapple pbs physics science tv eyes on the prize posted by jason kottke oct 03, 2006 i posted a link to this earlier, but after watching the first two hours earlier this evening, i must strongly caution against missing eyes on the prize on pbs this month. using nothing more than archival film footage, on-camera interviews, period music, and a narrator’s voiceover, the stories of emmitt till, the montgomery bus boycott, and the desegregation of southern schools riveted me to the couch like few viewing experiences have. as compelling as the history of the civil rights movement in america is, the production of the film deserves some of the credit for its power. to hear the stories of these momentous events told by the participants themselves, without embellishment, is quite extraordinary. from a media perspective, watching eyes on the prize gives me hope that we can survive the era of the crescendoing musical scores and 20-cuts-per-minute editing and still tell powerful, engaging stories without worrying about window dressing. i won’t soon forget the calm determination in the look and voice of moses wright or mississippi governor ross barnett thundering away about segregation. (for me, eyes is also a nice companion piece to my twin obsessions of late, the wire and the blind side, both of which deal with contemporary race relations in their own way. the pbs web site for the film lists dozens of resources for further exploration of the topic…does anyone have any specific recommendations for books about the civil rights movement? lemme know.) update: thanks for the recommendations, everyone…i posted a listing of them here. more about... books civil rights eyes on the prize movies pbs the blind side the wire tv must see/tivo tv: for the first posted by jason kottke oct 02, 2006 must see/tivo tv: for the first time in years, pbs is airing eyes on the prize, a 14-hour series on the american civil rights movement. (via steve) more about... civil rights eyesontheprize pbs tivo tv the american masters episode on woody guthrie posted by jason kottke jul 13, 2006 the american masters episode on woody guthrie is worth a look. more about... music pbs tv woodyguthrie design: e2 is an upcoming 6-part pbs posted by jason kottke may 12, 2006 design: e2 is an upcoming 6-part pbs special on the environment and the economy. more about... economics environment pbs you can watch the entire program of posted by jason kottke dec 01, 2005 you can watch the entire program of frontline’s the last abortion clinic online. “with states across the us passing regulations limiting access to abortion, does roe v. wade still matter?” more about... abortion frontline pbs politics video pbs has put up a companion web posted by jason kottke aug 18, 2005 pbs has put up a companion web site to the nova program on einstein airing in october. features include audio clips of several physicists describing e=mc^2 to non-physicists. more about... albert einstein nova pbs physics relativity tv pbs will be offering an online-only show posted by jason kottke jul 14, 2005 pbs will be offering an online-only show called nerdtv starting this fall. the series will feature “pbs technology columnist and industry insider robert x. cringely’s interviews with personalities from the ever-changing world of technology”. more about... nerdtv pbs robertcringely tv television documentaries are slow, repetetive, and information-poor posted by jason kottke jul 14, 2005 television documentaries are slow, repetetive, and information-poor. the brian greene series on string theory had the same problem. more about... documentaries gunsgermsandsteel jared diamond pbs science tv jared diamond’s gun, germs, and steel three-part posted by jason kottke jul 10, 2005 jared diamond’s gun, germs, and steel three-part series starts monday on pbs. more about... culturalanthropology gunsgermsandsteel jared diamond pbs tv wsj: we should fund pbs, but remove anything remotely liberal posted by jason kottke jun 16, 2005 wsj: we should fund pbs, but remove anything remotely liberal. “but real history, meaning something that happened in the past as opposed to the recent present, with which pbs, alas, cannot be trusted.” more about... pbs politics tv great list of favorite memories from sesame street posted by jason kottke apr 07, 2005 great list of favorite memories from sesame street. i’d completely forgotten about the noo-ne-noo-ne-noo typewriter. i’m gonna be humming that all day now. more about... nostalgia pbs sesame street tv kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives