skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports peer-to-peer lending one cool alternative investment channel is peer-to-peer loans. you can buy fractional ownership of unsecured notes, and earn a healthy return for doing so. the most common reasons people are borrowing money are for debt consolidation, home remodeling, or to start a business. my experiment in peer-to-peer lending began with prosper.com, and i now have over 5 years of performance history and double-digit returns. before you get started know your net worth. your net worth is the sum of all your assets (cash, savings, mutual funds, equity in your home, etc.) minus your liabilities (student loans, credit card debt, mortgages, etc.). one tool i like to help calculate your net worth is personal capital. it’s free! i began by allocating only a very small percentage of my net worth to peer-to-peer investing. don’t make any bets you can’t afford to lose. know your objective. what’s the goal of your investment? a goal of accumulating wealth to retire in 30 years is very different than a goal of earning $1000 a month in positive cash flow. my prosper loans spin off cash every month, so i consider it a good cash flow investment. peer-to-peer lending 6-year performance update october 16, 2018february 27, 2017 my experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com continues, though i’m not quite as bullish on it as i was a year ago. the platform has seen some impressive growth, both in terms of the number and volume of “originations,” and the number of lenders competing for the most attractive loans to lend on. i’m still … read more 8 comments peer-to-peer lending 5-year performance update october 15, 2018february 22, 2016 my experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com continues, and it’s been another busy year. the platform has seen some impressive growth, both in terms of the number and volume of “originations,” and the number of lenders competing for the most attractive loans to lend on. i used lending robot to automatically deploy idle cash for all of 2015, which has worked out pretty well so far. 12 comments prosper.com year 4 performance update october 15, 2018march 2, 2015 my experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com continues, and it’s been another busy year. the platform has seen some impressive growth, both in terms of the number and volume of “originations,” and the number of lenders competing for the most attractive loans to lend on. as my idle cash began to grow, i sought out a smarter way to deploy it and began using lending robot, which has worked out pretty well so far. 7 comments automating my peer-to-peer lending with lendingrobot october 15, 2018august 18, 2014 in my last peer-to-peer lending update, i noted that the returns and cash flow were still strong, but that it was almost impossible to find good loans to lend on anymore. turns out the “professional” p2p lenders are all using automated software that snaps up the most attractive loans in seconds. my old-fashioned method of logging into the site at 9am and 5pm when new loans were released was not going to cut it. 10 comments prosper.com year 3 performance update october 15, 2018march 17, 2014 my experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com continues, and it’s been another busy year. the platform has seen some impressive growth, both in terms of the number and volume of “originations,” and the number of lenders competing for the most attractive loans to lend on. in fact, there’s been a huge influx of institutional money … read more 4 comments lessons learned from 50+ prosper.com loan defaults october 15, 2018february 14, 2013 with two years of prosper.com lending under my belt, i wanted to take a deeper dive into the 50+ loans that have defaulted on me during that time. prosper does not make it easy to access or analyze this information on an aggregate level, so it turned into a pretty tedious data-entry project. (which i … read more 11 comments prosper.com 2-year performance update october 15, 2018february 13, 2013 my experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com continues, and it’s been a busy year. new listings are posted at 9am and 5pm, and because the account spins off cash almost daily, i’m kind of addicted to log in and see which new loans i can reinvest in. summary my loans are earning 9.88% (“seasoned”) and … read more 2 comments prosper.com 1-year performance update january 31, 2019march 12, 2012 i am happy to report my initial experiment with peer-to-peer lending at prosper.com has been a success. returns my investment has earned 11.11% so far, far greater than the <1% that money was earning in savings. there is more risk and it’s not as liquid but i’m happy with the results. strategy as part of … read more 2 comments search for: join the nation! free report reveals the 5 fastest ways to make more money! i'm a hustler! greatest hits 99 side hustle business ideas you can start today 200+ ways to make extra money in your spare time 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that actually work how to start a blog [free 6-part video course] credit card rewards 101: how to earn free cash and travel by spending smarter my tedx talk: and the story behind it. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok