instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "pei" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: pei rebecca 4 min read november 5, 2019 no reply visiting pei: a kid’s perspective family travel editor’s note: my son has written some articles about topics he’s chosen that he thinks readers, or maybe their kids will be interested in. here’s another one and it’s all about pei! i am often asked what we do with the kids when we go out east. his answers give you a little taste of what the kids love to do when we go. _________________________ my family and i have been to prince edward island for many years as a vacation. every year, we have a great time. the island is home to many historic places on the island. however, history is not the only thing available on the island. many other forms of fun can be enjoyed while on prince edward island. let’s see the top five best things to do on prince edward island. 5. visit the beaches some of the islands most popular areas are the beaches! there are currently 23 beaches located on the island, and all of them are different in their own way. some of our favourites are greenwich, north rustico & cavendish. however, those are just three. there are still twenty more waiting to be explored. also, be ready to swim! 4. explore the light houses another one of pei’s most popular destinations are the lighthouses. 63 lighthouses are found in pei. you may think that lighthouses are boring but they are pretty cool once you reach the top. yes, you read that right, you can climb the lighthouses. each of them are fairly similar in shape, color and size. however, some of them are pretty unique in their own way. here are some to check out. souris east lighthouse, north cape, point prim and panmure. these lighthouses are all cool and besides, there are 63 of them. victoria-by-the-sea 3. visit charlottetown pei’s capital and the birthplace of confederation, charlottetown is where the magic happens. perhaps you want a drink? they have it here. oh, you would like some french fries? they have it here. perhaps you want a great place to explore? they have it here. yes, charlottetown has it all. one thing you need to check out is the province house. they are currently renovating it so you most likely won’t be able to go in until 2020. nonetheless, charlottetown is a great way to spend a day at, as it has restaurants, tourist attractions and food. who doesn’t like food, right? 2. visit a cows ice cream shop cows is one of the best ice cream cones i’ve tasted in the last 10 years. i don’t think i’m alone. there are 12 locations on the island and even some in other places in canada. some of places are ontario, nova scotia, alberta and british columbia. you’ll recognize cows because it literally has a giant cow outside each of the shops. on top of that, make sure you visit the creamery too. it is where the ice cream is made. also, cows makes merchandise too. however, they are all parodies of popular movies and tv shows. an example is “farmite cattle royale” obviously after fortnite battle royale. try the ice cream it is some of the best you’ll ever have. 1. try all the food pei has all these great things, but the food is what really counts. i mean seafood, of course. lobster, oysters, mussels you name it they have it. you may think it’s just seafood you can find anywhere. we’re on an island of course it’s going to be better than any other seafood! you can have it for dinner, and lunch. as i said, charlottetown will have all of this seafood. however, some stores will carry it as well. i suggest that if you’re on vacation, you’ll want to eat as much as you can, because once you leave, you won’t be able to have it again. *editor’s note: he loves mussels now, and is a picky eater. thanks pei! so that’s what you should do if you go to pei. try the food, visit the lighthouses, swim at the beach and have a good time. i hope you enjoy your time in pei and have fun. rebecca 3 min read august 9, 2019 no reply family travel: visiting victoria-by-the-sea, pei family travel, travel over the many years we’ve been coming to pei in the summer, we’ve managed to visit every corner and many stops along the way. there have been many favourite locations we have discovered and returned to over the years, but one that we always make a point of going to is victoria by the sea. why we love victoria by the sea located only 20 minutes east of the confederation bridge (which is close to where we stay), it’s an easy drive to a coastal town that is perfectly picturesque. there is a lighthouse to climb and snap photos of (every pei trip should include lighthouse visits) and it’s situated with a backdrop that is worth seeing. give yourself enough time to walk around and shop the village. i love these two shops where you can purchase local gifts, decor and more! of course, we don’t go anywhere without knowing we’ll be eating some amazing local food. beachcombers on the wharf has a gorgeous on-the-water patio and serves breakfast, lunch and dinner (note: the kids’ meals are served on frisbees that they get to take home!). there’s the newly re-done landmark oyster house that we weren’t able to get to (yet, i’m hoping to make it there this trip!) but with daily specials that sound amazing (including a late afternoon oyster special) we’re excited to see this new(ish) addition in town. we always end up at the lobster barn for one of the best lobster rolls we can get (opt for the side of potato salad). i love that the kids’ meals are well priced and don’t include a drink or dessert. this gives us more flexibility with them. the service is always amazing and drinks on the patio is the perfect spot for a bite. for my own dessert i can’t help but order their sticky date pudding every year. i can’t even describe how amazingly good this is. there isn’t even a picture, i basically inhaled it. other places to visit there are many other places to check out in this small town, but here are a few more to consider: island chocolates will have treats for the family or gifts to bring home (if they make it that long!) and also serves locally roasted coffee. we always stop in the shop to buy chocolate for the kids, sometimes chocolate chips for cottage pancakes and gifts. you can see them making the chocolate too! the victoria playhouse offers a season of live theatre. it may not be for the kids, but if you are on a solo trip (or the kids are older) this may be worth checking out. the current play is a romantic comedy which basically screams that i should be seeing it! and finally, if you are feeling adventurous, you can rent kayaks or bicycles to tour around (or even learn how to kayak!) a few notes: as with almost every destination on the island, it’s worth checking to confirm that shops and restaurants are open and for what times. in high season, they are open more frequently but sometimes closed early or not at all, especially during the quiet seasons. there are a few small parking lots but you may end up needing to street park. bring a camera – this is a spot where you’ll be able to capture plenty of picturesque photos! rebecca 1 min read july 7, 2017 no reply visiting pei: the bottle houses family travel i think this is a bit of a hidden gem that not everyone who goes to pei visits, but we loved the bottle houses on the west side of the island. while we made a point of visiting as many lighthouses and beaches as we could over the years (even though after climbing some houses my son and i thought we would never climb down!), there are still so many places in pei to visit that are enchanting, exciting, and that feel special. the bottle houses are exactly like this. they have that whimsical, magical feeling to them. they are located on the north cape coastal drive in cap-egmont, pei. (according to their website, about 40 minutes from the bridge). the ‘village’ is a series of tiny buildings and houses that have been made from bottles. there is an admission fee but on a nice day, it’s a lovely way to spend part of a morning or afternoon. we had a lovely visit exploring the houses. the day we went it was sunny so the light was really able to shine in. the kids were younger when we went and this was a great spot, because there was plenty of space for them to explore and walk around in the gardens and houses. if you are looking for a unique stop when you head to pei, add this to your list! rebecca 2 min read september 6, 2015 1 reply family travel: greenwich, pei family travel there are so many gorgeous spots across pei that it’s hard to just narrow down the locations to highlight on the blog. if you follow my instagram, you’ll have noticed that in august i was sharing some of my favourite pictures from our trip to pei, including some great bites of food. during the two week were were on the island, we had gorgeous weather, short of a couple cooler, gray days, and we’ve had a perfect balance of touring the island, taking in the sites, and staying at our cottage. one of our most favourite places to visit is greenwich national park. this is a place that offers infinite beauty, as well as a nearby beach that is great for swimming, plus the feeling that we are at a truly stunning natural setting. the walk to get to the water when entering the greenwich national park can be long for tiny feet, so i recommend bringing a lot of water like we did. it was a hot day that only got hotter as we came back. but the walk is worth it. my husband described it to the kids as having four levels: a gravel, field walk way, a forest, a boardwalk, and a beach. each unique in it’s own beauty. everywhere you turn is a photo opportunity. after our walk and dipping our toes into the wavy water, we needed to swim, so we drove to the nearby life guarded swimming beach of greenwich, changed in the change rooms and jumped in. it was the cooling down we all needed. we splashed, we swam, we laugh. definitely a highlight of the day. planning to go? bring water for your walk! each way along the board walk is about 30-45 minutes. there is an outhouse at the beginning of the walk, but that’s hit. plan accordingly. strollers can go on the path, but once you get to the beach there’s an incline. i saw some people park their strollers to walk up and over the dunes into the beach area. looking to eat? we brought a picnic with us. there are a few picnic tables, but we just ate while in the parking lot. want a restaurant? the nearby rick’s fish and chips is worth the stop. on our way back, we grabbed some clam strips to munch on. rebecca 1 min read august 4, 2015 4 replies family vacation: pei 2015 – happy family travel once again, we’ve returned to pei for two weeks of fun, relaxation, food, beaches and family time. on sunday, our first full day at our cottage, was spent playing many sports (these two weeks are fantastic for my health!) including catch, soccer, and football, but also it was spent relaxing, walking on the beach and reading. i read an entire book yesterday. you read it correctly. it was a trope filled romance novel that i devoured. that’s the kind of day we had. we’ll be continuing with days like this, plus some island exploration. we hit a new beach yesterday that was worth the visit, but deserves its own post. we’ll also be returning to some old favourites along the way. i’m posting pictures on instagram so you can follow along there. the sun has been shining and the kids have been sleeping in, so there’s little to complain about. more to come! rebecca 7 min read january 10, 2014 20 replies family travel to pei: make summer plans now family travel, travel for years, we have been going to pei in the summer, and this year is no exception. if you’ve been following this blog, or my twitter account for a while, you know that pei holds a dear place in my heart. it’s become the most fantastic travel spot for our family each summer. we’ve been visiting since my youngest was 2 years old, so from a family travel perspective we’ve learned quite a few things along the way. it’s become one of our most loved trips to plan, primarily because we feel like locals when we go now. every year, i’m asked about our trips to pei and i highly encourage other families to make vacation plans to visit pei as well. the memories will last a lifetime. what to do in pei with kids most people ask me what we ‘do’ on pei while there with the kids. the answer is a bit confusing because we do nothing and everything all at once. we spend a lot of time on the beach, we eat fantastically, we explore, we find new places, we try new things, we watch the sunrise and sunset over the ocean water, the play, we laugh and ultimately we spend time together, just the four of us, that our responsibility-filled lives don’t usually allow for, at least not in the same way. every year, we seem to find a new local spot to hang out. but more and more, we just sit back and enjoy our time in the gorgeous space we have. one thing i recommend is to lean into what the kids love themselves. my son loves history so we usually find spots that have historic stories to share (charlottetown is the perfect place for this). my daughter, meanwhile, becomes a little mermaid when we head east so we look for new beaches or build into swimming time for her throughout the weeks. mostly, we spend a lot of time at our cottage making memories, playing games, reading, swimming and challenging each other to epic soccer tournaments and pop-fly 500 games. i do recommend a few places when people ask about visiting the island. most people will want to head north to cavendish (avonlea village has a lot of great food choices) and we always eat at the preserve company. there are so many beaches to choose from, and those visits usually depend on where we will be and the weather, but a few to look into are thunder cove, brackley beach, basin head, the argyle shore, and north rustico. i also always recommend you find some lighthouses to explore. there’s a map that you can get on the island that shows you where they all are. these make for amazing photos, history lessons, and a great way to see a lot of the province. pei vacation planning: want more information about pei? here are some posts i’ve written to help you make your own plans. visiting the pei bottle houses greenwich national park (why we love it and recommend visiting there) where to eat in pei (a short but delicious list – it’s older and i will update with a new one soon!) visiting victoria by the sea there’s so much to see and do on the island. it’s historical significance is being celebrated against the backdrop of green lands and glorious beaches. we are pretty excited about heading back each year. where to stay when visiting pei want to spend the afternoon looking at cottages? check out the tourism pei website to start. we’ve also used home away and rentalo in our searches. there are many parts of the island to stay on. we stay on the southern shore because we love the tide coming in and out, the red sand, the shallow (warmer) waters, and the bird life. but that area may not be for everyone. another spot we love is east (panmure island, souris if you go further north east). i always recommend you think about a) the beach you want to be on b) how close to the nearest larger city you want to be (charlottetown or summerside for example) you need to decide if you what type of beach you want to be on first (regular, sandy style beach, or the red sand and extreme tides?) and that should help. the closer you are to open water, the better the breeze typically which has helped us greatly with bugs and not having air conditioning. we typically would recommend you look for properties near or on the straight or coasts because the bays can sometimes not get enough breeze which means it can be really hot and really bug invested. what’s the weather like in pei? the weather on the island can vary in the summer months, but typically we deal with warm, summer weather and the nights tend to cool. some years have been much warmer than others but the cooler mornings and evenings only add to the attraction. we love sitting on the deck with our coffee and a sweater to start the day. it can rain, which will affect your beach time, but there are plenty of indoor activities and plans to make on rain days. but of course, we always hope for sunny weather! here’s more information about the pei weather in the summer. getting to pei we live in ottawa and it’s about a 14 hour drive from ottawa to pei. we drive and stay over for one night on the way before taking possession of the cottage rental. we have stayed in saint john and fredericton. the plan is typically to drive the furthers on the first day, and then have a leisurely morning the second day. we usually drive to fredericton and stop for a picnic lunch in la pocatiere, qc. when the tides are right, you could consider a stop at hopewell rocks (this is such an amazing area). we’ve done this on the way to pei and on the way home from pei before. on the drive home, we go all the way. pei also has an airport, so you could fly into charlottetown and rent a car to get around the island as well. summer vacation planning to pei is so much fun! enjoy! have you been to pei? going to summer? let me know below! pin it for later! rebecca 0 min read july 26, 2013 2 replies saying goodbye to pei family travel, travel um. can someone tell me where two weeks have gone? frankly, i know where they’ve gone. they’ve gone to laughter and good food and swimming and reading and playing on the beach. once again our summer vacation to pei (with stops in new brunswick) has been a blast. i have a series of posts coming up with a few of the new places we went this year, and a bit of a recap of what we did (because some things were repeats from last year). we ate well, we laughed often and we really relaxed. with sadness we say goodbye to the island tomorrow but it will be nice to get home to see family and friends. if you are thinking about heading east next year with the family, i can’t endorse it enough. you’ll love it, trust me. rebecca 1 min read july 27, 2012 2 replies pei: saying goodbye family travel, kids, parenting, travel i’d love to know where the week went. well, i *know* where it went – we were beaching it in pei, and eating well, and relaxing, and checking out lighthouses and having a lot of fun as a family. but still, it went by so quickly. we are currently packing to hit the road for ottawa tomorrow. this will be our last night watching the sun set from the deck over the ocean with the confederation bridge in the background. it was our last day to splash on the beach. to play at the cottage. to go to cows ice cream and indulge. to eat lobster (which, for the record, i was successful with operation eat-lobster-everyday! tonight, simple steamed whole lobster and butter). i will miss the temperatures, the salty air, the refreshing breeze and the friendliness every where we went. i will certainly miss the food and the time i got to spend with my family. of course i will be happy to get home, but i will long for these days with the four of us enjoying nature, and each other’s company. we ate well. we played hard. and we laughed often. thank you prince edward island for your hospitality once again. we can’t wait for our return. this is bill. my kids named him that. he’s actually the cows ice cream mascot cow. not sure if he has a name. but he will always be bill to us 🙂 rebecca 2 min read july 25, 2012 7 replies pei: lighthouses and seals family travel, kids, parenting, travel where does the time go? i’m not sure how this is already wednesday… today we spent time visiting lighthouses. there are many (if you travel here, pick up the handy lighthouse guide to determine which ones are open for visiting) and last year we saw 4. it was one of the highlights of the entire trip for the kids. they talked about it for months. when asked what they wanted to do on this trip in the weeks leading up to our departure, they would answer “cows ice cream and lighthouses”. today we headed towards the north-east of the island, as far east as we could go. we went to the lighthouse at souris (a town and area i would love to explore more). lighthouse at souris we climbed to the top and i did the same thing that i do every year i climb to the top of these lighthouses. panic. i couldn’t climb all of them last year because they seemed steep and scary to me (andy and my son did them all) but this year with my daughter aware that she didn’t want to miss out, i went ahead. getting up is easy. getting down is harder. getting down is tricky (and note with kids: mine had to be carried down) so despite the fact that i thought i would have a new home at the top of the lighthouse, i eventually did come down. they are really worth going up just for the view. next, we went as far east as possible to east point. what a beautiful area. the breeze was high, the salt air rushing into my lungs, the stunning views. it was wonderful. east point lighthouse if we had more time, or in future years, we are planning to take a boat out and do some seal watching but for today, we at least were able to see some seals in the water near the east point lighthouse. it was amazing. seals! we ended up at st. peter’s bay for lunch and enjoyed another food network “you’ve got to eat here” recommendation – rick’s fish and chips. possibly the best fish and chips i’ve ever had. another wonderful day – including more time at the cottage to play our new favourite game: family touch football. oh, and today’s operation eat-lobster-everyday selection: lobster caesar salad (paired with a clam chowder) from the lobster barn. lobster caesar salad and clam chowder from the lobster barn in victoria facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.