skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / windows / pella windows pella windows by blake hughes on march 4, 2020 in windows pella has been in the window and door industry since 1925. they provide a wide range of wood, fiberglass and vinyl window options. they also offer top-of-the-line windows with smart home technology that continues their tradition of industry innovation. their insynctive technology adds security sensors to every window and door in your home. you can monitor your home with their free app on both android and apple devices. whatever your needs, pella will have the right style and type of window for your home, including completely customized pieces. collect this idea s_photo / shuttershock pella windows products and pricing pella offers three different frame materials and several style options, including completely customized windows. the first step is to choose between wood, fiberglass and vinyl windows. architect series® wood windows come in traditional and contemporary styles. their architect series® traditional windows were also voted an energy star most efficient 2019 product and are compatible with their smart home technology. price range: $136 – $355 (for pella lifestyle series double hung windows) impervia® series if durability is important to you, their pella® impervia® fiberglass windows are a good option. they include duracast®, “the most durable material available in windows.” duracast is made of five layers that protect your windows from both extreme heat and cold. price range: $131 – $240 (for pella impervia series double hung windows) 350, 250 and encompass series vinyl windows are a great option if you’re looking for something simple, affordable and that are easy to maintain. pella offers three options, including their 350 series, 250 series and encompass by pella® series — one of their most affordable options. and they’re not just affordable. they are some of the easiest windows to maintain, also making them one of the longest-lasting. price range: $109 – $220 (for pella encompass series double hung windows) note that pricing for windows varies based on each individual project. to find out what your windows will cost, it’s best to contact a local dealer and get an estimate. they will also be able to tell you about specific warranties for each product. pella windows reviews, ratings, customer satisfaction pella is well-known in the industry. they have an a+ rating from the better business bureau and received a “better than most” score in operational performance and durability in the windows and patio doors satisfaction study (manufacturer) (2018) by j.d. power. reasons why pella windows is a great option pella replacement windows can offer homeowners a ton of benefits, including windows that exceed energy star requirements in all 50 states, enhanced noise reduction and innovative technologies like integrated blinds and built-in security sensors. few companies have as big of an impact in the industry with prices that are affordable and materials that stand the test of time. pella offers a limited lifetime warranty on many of its products, including wood, vinyl and fiberglass windows. pella replacement windows also come with the pella care guarantee for customers who purchase and install through a local pella window and door showroom. pella windows faqs how much do windows from pella cost? the cost will depend on the size of the project. you can expect to pay anywhere from $80 to $1,325 per window installed, depending on your choices and the price of installation. what types of windows does pella sell? pella sells wood, fiberglass and vinyl windows in a variety of styles. for more information, click here. where can i buy pella windows? to find a local dealer, visit this link and enter your zip code. also read bedroom windows bedroom windows buying guide windows best pella replacement windows popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss