home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty personal finance competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding pension planning: like ripping off a plaster the size of your entire body? (ad feature) miss thrifty2 october 28, 2016 where were we? ah yes: pension planning for the financially nerve wracked thirty something, courtesy of aviva’s new shape my future web tool. there i was, fingers poised over keyboard and mouse, about to find out if the lackadaisical pension planning follies of my youth were about to condemn me to a tap-water sandwich-fuelled retirement. i began by typing in my date of birth and my sex, so that shape my future could calculate when i am likely to retire. next, i typed in the amount i earn, the amount paid into my work pension every month and the current size of my pension pot. you’ll need this information to hand: you’ll find it on your monthly payslips, and the latest statement sent to you by your pension provider once a year. shape my future wanted to know if i would own my house outright by the time i retired, and if i had expectations of any additional income once i had signed off and out of work. as i filled out the form fields, a summary of all the information appeared on the right of my laptop screen, above a strolling lady who looked far more perky than i was feeling. at this stage, the tool added my pot and monthly contributions to the current state pension (£156 a week), and worked out how much income i am likely to receive every week. hang on a minute: was that right? £228 every week? with no mortgage to pay? that’s almost a grand a month. thanks to a frugal lifestyle, i could live off that, couldn’t i? what worried me, as per my previous post, was that by the time i retire, the state pension may be gone completely. the shape my future tool presumes that it will be intact: the tool relies on a lengthy list of presumptions, including the rate of inflation and pension fund management charges. these are spelled out though: the aviva tool is envisaged as a general guide, rather than a resource with laser-like precision. also, by giving myself a pat on the back that my retirement was going to be better than i had expected, i was getting ahead of the game. the next step was for the shape my future tool to analyse my likely outgoings, to calculate if i really could live within my likely means… the tool quizzed on all aspects of my life and spending, from the size of my accommodation and mobile phone use, to how much i planned to spend on the grandkids at christmas. each chunk of outgoings was allocated a multiple choice question, with various lifestyle and expenditure options. i must admit, i primped and preened a little when asked how much i would spend at the supermarket and on eating out: £28, £45, £54, £66 or £103? that deluxe, £103 option is as follows: i can do £28, easy. finally, the tool produced a breakdown of my outgoings – and concluded that i would be in the money (relatively speaking). i can’t begin to tell you how surprised i was. i thought i would be destitute: instead, i felt like scrooge mcduck diving into his cash pit. the mobile version of this tool is very neat, but i would recommend trying this on your laptop or desktop instead. you get a lot more detail, without having to scroll: so, this was what my old age could look like: a mortgage-free 2-bedroom flat, broadband, netflix, trips to the park and library with the grandchildren, gifting at christmas, a weekly exercise class, plenty of hobbies and some money put by every month. i felt like… like… a baby boomer! on a more serious note, this shape my future tool came along at just the right time for me. although my pension situation turned out to be (possibly) less perilous than i had feared, it forced my hand and encouraged me to take a long, hard, difficult look at my pension plans. it was cathartic and has given me the momentum to work out ways in which i can increase my likely retirement income going forward – in case my fears about the state pension are realised, or in case the stock market crashes just as i collect my carriage clock. if you are in this situation, aviva has a good selection of tools and articles on the [shape my future hub], which accompanies the tool. go on, i dare you: are you brave enough to do what i did and find out if you are going to be old and bold, or old and cold? if you try out the shape my future tool, i’d love to know if your envisaged retirement looks anything like mine… this post was produced in association with aviva. i was not-so-secretly pleased to have been approached by aviva to work with them on the shape my future project, partly because they are paying me, but mostly because i really needed a foot up my backside to confront my pension demons. ‘pension demons’? they must wear bowler hats, right? anyway, the aviva shape my future tool uses simple inputs to give a basic idea of retirement income. details of assumptions are available at aviva.co.uk. did you enjoy this post? share the love miss thrifty on: free daily digest get the latest posts and deals by emails: 2 responses to “pension planning: like ripping off a plaster the size of your entire body? (ad feature)” sarah @tortoisehappy.com says: i know it’s based on a load of assumptions and no one can predict the future, but i’ve not seen such an easy tool for working out what i’ll need in retirement and whether i’m on track for the life i want october 29, 2016 at 3:33 pm miss thrifty says: thanks sarah – it’s nice and easy, isn’t it? makes the scary stuff a little less scary, imo. november 2, 2016 at 1:58 pm leave a reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked *leave a comment *your email address will not be published.your name * your email * your website get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google