skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged performance it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 105 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 27, 2020 maintaining performance shared by chris coyier real talk from dave: i, dave rupert, a person who cares about web performance, a person who reads web performance blogs, a person who spends lots of hours trying to keep up on best practices, a person who co-hosts a weekly podcast about making websites and speak with web performance professionals… somehow goofed and added 33 seconds to their page load. this stuff is hard even when you care a lot. the 33 seconds came from font preloading rather than … read article “maintaining performance” our notes / read at daverupert.com font loading performance link march 26, 2020 get static shared by robin rendle in this piece, eric meyer argues that performance is more important than ever right now — especially for websites that contain critical information for the public:… read article “get static” our notes / read at meyerweb.com eleventy performance static site generators article march 24, 2020 performance links author chris coyier comments start conversation i've had a number of browser tabs open to articles all related to web performance and gosh darn it if blogging them is a way for me get some closure. they are all good! … read article “performance links” performance article march 16, 2020 build a node.js tool to record and compare google lighthouse reports author luke harrison 8 comments join conversation in this tutorial, i’ll show you step by step how to create a simple tool in node.js to run google lighthouse audits via the command line, save the reports they generate in json format and then compare them so web performance can be monitored as the website grows and develops. i’m hopeful this can serve as a good introduction for any developer interested in learning about how to work with google lighthouse programmatically.… read article “build a node.js tool to record and compare google lighthouse reports” lighthouse node performance link february 27, 2020 when css blocks shared by chris coyier tim kadlec: one particular pattern [for loading non-critical css] i’ve seen is the preload/polyfill pattern. with this approach, you load any stylesheets as preloads instead, and then use their onload events to change them back to a stylesheet once the browser has them ready. so you're trying to make your stylesheet more async, but it causes two big problems: you've kicked up the priority of the downloading higher than any other asset. you've blocked the html parser too (because … read article “when css blocks” our notes / read at timkadlec.com performance preload link february 26, 2020 in-browser performance linting with feature policies shared by robin rendle here’s a neat idea from tim kadlec. he uses the modheader extension to toggle custom headers in his browser. it also lets him see when images are too big and need to be optimized in some way. this is a great way to catch issues like this in a local environment because browsers will throw an error and won’t display them at all!… read article “in-browser performance linting with feature policies” our notes / read at timkadlec.com feature policy image optimization linting performance article february 19, 2020 do this to improve image loading on your website author robin rendle 6 comments join conversation in the video embedded below, jen simmons explains how to improve image loading by using width and height attributes. the issue is that there’s a lot of jank when an image is first loaded because an img will naturally have a height of 0 before the image asset has been successfully downloaded by the browser. then it needs to repaint the page after that which pushes all the content around. i’ve definitely seen this problem a lot on big news … read article “do this to improve image loading on your website” aspect ratio images performance link february 10, 2020 helping browsers optimize with the css contain property shared by chris coyier there is a growing number of things that we have to do to help the browser achieve for peak performance. responsive image syntax has several. for example, needing to tell the browser how large the image will be in our layout with the sizes attribute and how big the images are with w descriptors. regular images have always had width and height presentational attributes, which have always been somewhat useful and are now really useful. the will-change property in … read article “helping browsers optimize with the css contain property” our notes / read at www.smashingmagazine.com contain layout performance article january 31, 2020 innovation can’t keep the web fast author jeremy wagner comments start conversation every so often, the fruits of innovation bear fruit in the form of improvements to the foundational layers of the web. in 2015, http/2 became a published standard in an effort to update an aging protocol. this was was both necessary and overdue, as http/1 rendered web performance as an arcane sort of discipline in the form of strange workarounds of its limitations. though http/2 proliferation isn’t absolute — and there are kinks yet to be worked out — i … read article “innovation can’t keep the web fast” performance link january 31, 2020 lightning-fast web performance shared by chris coyier if you're interested in leveling up your knowledge and skill of web performance, you can't do better than learning directly from scott jehl.… read article “lightning-fast web performance” our notes / read at scottjehl.com performance 1 2 3 ... 11 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers