home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » plumbing » perfect showerhead for a small shower perfect showerhead for a small shower july 24, 2017 brittany bailey 11 comments 116shares facebook twitter pinterest perfect shower head for a small shower raise your hand if you have a small shower. have you ever struggled to find the perfect shower head for your tiny shower? i feel your pain. recently i had to replace a worn out shower head in our bathroom and i struggled to find the perfect hand held shower head. but, this story has a happy ending, because i stumbled upon the perfect showerhead for a small shower that works beautifully in our not so beautiful shower. i warn you, the harvest gold tile you are about to see may sear your eyes. i warned you. (i’ve included affiliate links for your convenience. i earn a small percentage from a purchase using these links. there is no additional cost to you. you can read more about affiliate links here.) i started by installing a moen twist shower head (that was given to me complimentary at haven last year.) the problem reared its (shower) head immediately. the first morning, after installing the new showerhead, i turned on the water to take a shower, and realized this new showerhead wasn’t going to work. i stepped into the shower and got a face full of water, because the spray was too high no matter where i angled it. i could barely stand under the shower spray unless i was pressed flat against the opposite wall. i removed it and installed the showerhead into the boy’s bathroom tub shower and it was a better fit. at the home improvement store, i studied all the showerheads like a crazy lady. i decided i needed to find one that didn’t sit in the shower arm at the bottom of the sprayer. i almost gave up until i saw the moen six function magnetic showerhead. it looked promising. but, i had to admit, i was skeptical of the magnetic technology. i tested several magnetic faucets that didn’t have the strength to really grab a faucet sprayer without being exactly against the base. after installing the new showerhead, i lifted the sprayer off the shower arm. it detached from the magnets with a firm tug. as i moved the showerhead back toward the arm, the magnets pulled and reseated the sprayer firmly in place. i was surprised and pleased by the magnetic grip. but, i was more interested to see how the spray pattern would measure up. with the water turned on full blast, i was pleased to see the spray didn’t hit the wall on the opposite side! here’s a good side-by-side comparison of the two spray heads (thanks to my wonky photoshop skills): overall, i’m very happy with the new moen six function magnetic showerhead. it is the perfect shower head for a tiny shower! i’m curious how many of you have a tiny coffin-like shower? let’s start a small shower support group so we can discuss the challenges of shaving your legs in confined spaces. disclosure: this is not a sponsored post or paid review. i purchased the showerhead with my own greenbacks. the first showerhead i installed was given to us in our swag bags at haven last year. 116shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: plumbing comments vanessa says july 24, 2017 at 12:55 pm my shower is in a full size tub, but i love my magnetic shower head. we have major water pressure and this shower stays firmly seated on the magnetic bracket – no twisting when the water comes on and shooting out across the floor! and for a water conserving shower, it has somewhat decent water flow. reply cherie says july 24, 2017 at 1:21 pm love moen’s magnetic shower head… btw, your pronunciation was correct. it’s caulk like hawk…whoever says the silent l?! bwahahaha reply jenny young says july 24, 2017 at 6:30 pm i think my shower is smaller than the one pictured though it’s open at the top. this shower head looks like it would spray over the top of my door. reply cathy says july 24, 2017 at 10:51 pm i think i have everyone beat because my shower measures 29″x29′. when i first moved in, i had to stand on a little plastic stool to get up to the water shooting across and hitting the wall. (i’m 5′ tall). i have a head that is lower now but it’s stationary. i’m going to give this one a try as i love a handheld..for one thing, it makes it easier to clean the shower. speaking of shaving legs….i don’t have a shelf or anything……i have to bust out the little plastic stool……. reply akshay says july 26, 2017 at 6:03 am i have big showerhead shower but it’s not magnetic… i had once tried magnetic shower which i loved it so i am willing to install it. reply ivory says july 31, 2017 at 12:18 pm in our basement we have a very small shower, this would be perfect for the space. thank you. reply jay craig says march 3, 2018 at 8:38 pm i just encountered the problem you had with the moen twist, only with a delta handshower. our old delta was angled down 30 degrees farther. the handshower is going back tomorrow, and i’m taking my old delta head with me for comparison. reply angie says june 7, 2018 at 10:16 am i have a small shower also, i’m going to have to check into this shower head. i have hell shaving my legs too. when i been over my behind sticks out of the shower water gets every where. lawd have mercy is not fun. reply shelby langsdale says august 9, 2019 at 4:53 pm does this head twist back to wall? reply brittany bailey says august 27, 2019 at 7:46 pm no, it doesn’t. reply rhonda says december 29, 2019 at 12:13 am we have this same shower head sprayer and love it! we felt like the pressure could be a little better. i googled it, and found a video about removing the pressure flow restrictor to get more pressure. it was simple to do and the pressure is great, now! reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok