about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ perfect roasted sweet potatoes 25 comments jump to recipe roasted sweet potatoes are my favorite! they’re pillowy-tender and sweet on the inside, and deliciously salty and caramelized on the outside. unlike sweet potato casseroles with marshmallows on top, roasted sweet potatoes have an inherently savory side to them. that’s why i love them. in fact, i didn’t even like sweet potatoes until i discovered sweet potato fries. roasted sweet potatoes were just a sidestep away, and they’re certainly healthier than deep-fried varieties. do you know that sweet potatoes are a great source of fiber, plus vitamins a and b6? since we’re going back to basics this month, i’m sharing my tested and perfected roasted sweet potatoes recipe. as you’ll see, roasted sweet potatoes make a wonderful side dish, snack or hearty plant-based meal component. crank up the oven and let’s get to it! how to roast sweet potatoes roasted sweet potatoes are easy to make and delicious, if you know these basic tips and tricks. 1) buy good sweet potatoes. look for sweet potatoes that feel heavy for their size, with even skin and no squishy bits. i try to buy sweet potatoes that are more rounded and evenly shaped, which is helpful when it comes to slicing them into even pieces. store your sweet potatoes in a dry, cool, dark place (like a pantry or cupboard, not the fridge). they should keep for a week or two. any variety of sweet potato will work for this recipe. the more colorful your sweet potatoes are on the inside, the more antioxidants they contain—truly! that’s why i always buy orange-fleshed (or occasionally purple-fleshed) sweet potatoes, rather than white. note that in the united states, “yams” are typically just sweet potatoes by another name (here’s what a real yam looks like). 2) peel or scrub them clean. this is up to you. i tend to peel my sweet potatoes out of habit, but you can leave the skin on if you don’t mind some additional texture. if you decide to leave the skin on, be sure to scrub them clean under running water and pat them dry before slicing. 3) cut them into even cubes, or close to it. start by slicing each sweet potato into one-inch wide rounds. then, cut each round as necessary to make chunks that are roughly one-inch cubes. they won’t be perfectly even, but that’s fine. 4) don’t overcrowd the pan. like all vegetables, sweet potatoes need some breathing room on the pan. otherwise, the cubes will produce so much steam that they’ll never turn golden on the edges. it’s better to use two pans, arranged on separate racks near the middle of the oven, than to cram too much onto one pan. tip: here are my favorite large, rimmed baking sheets (they’re called half-sheet pans, and that’s an affiliate link). each of these pans can accommodate up to two pounds of sweet potatoes. 5) roast at a relatively high temperature, turning halfway. we want the oven turned up high enough to yield delicious golden edges. not so high that the olive oil burns, which both smells and tastes bad. i recommend baking at 425 degrees fahrenheit. 6) don’t stop until deeply caramelized. if you roast the sweet potatoes long enough, their sugars will start to caramelize against the pan. those caramelized bits are the best parts! don’t worry if you see a few spots that look burnt—take it as a sign that your sweet potatoes are done. in all likelihood, the sweet potatoes will still taste great. uses for roasted sweet potatoes roasted sweet potatoes make a great side dish for a wide variety of meals. they’re an especially good option for quick stovetop dinners. put your sweet potatoes in the oven before you get started on the rest, and they’ll be done around the time your entrée is finished. as you skim through the suggestions provided below, you’ll see that i love to incorporate sweet potatoes into mexican (or even thai) meals. they’re sweet enough to contrast with spicy ingredients, and i can’t get enough. serve roasted sweet potatoes as a side dish for these meals: arugula and wild rice salad with zippy lemon dressing chilaquiles rojos or chilaquiles verdes crispy bean tostadas or favorite breakfast tacos spicy black bean soup you can also incorporate roasted sweet potatoes into your main dishes. here are a few examples: tacos or tostadas: sweet potato & black bean tacos with avocado-pepita dip or sweet potato & black bean tostadas burritos or burrito bowls: sweet potato burrito smothered in avocado salsa verde or spicy sweet potato and green rice burrito bowls casseroles: roasted veggie enchilada casserole finally, roasted sweet potatoes are a great addition to hearty salads with whole grains, including wild rice, farro and quinoa. here’s proof: sweet potato, arugula & wild rice salad with ginger dressing mediterranean roasted sweet potato & farro salad quinoa salad with roasted sweet potato, kale & pesto vinaigrette please let me know how your roasted sweet potatoes turn out in the comments. what’s your favorite way to enjoy sweet potatoes? if you’re craving more roasted veggies, here are a few more versatile recipes: roasted asparagus roasted broccoli (plus four variations) roasted brussels sprouts or balsamic roasted brussels sprouts with cranberries & pecans roasted carrots (three ways) roasted cauliflower (four ways) for a fun variation on roasted sweet potatoes, try my crispy baked sweet potato fries. they’re the perfect snack! print perfect roasted sweet potatoes author: cookie and kate prep time: 10 minutes cook time: 30 minutes total time: 40 minutes yield: 4 servings category: side dish method: roasted cuisine: american ★★★★★ 5 from 8 reviews roasted sweet potatoes are truly delicious, and so easy to make! this healthy recipe will become your new favorite side dish. recipe yields 4 side servings. ingredients 2 pounds sweet potatoes (3 to 4 medium sweet potatoes) 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil optional: 1 teaspoon chili powder or freshly ground black pepper, to taste ¼ teaspoon fine sea salt instructions preheat the oven to 425 degrees fahrenheit and line a large, rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper for easy clean-up. either scrub the sweet potatoes clean and pat dry, or peel them (i generally peel mine). to slice, use a sharp chef’s knife to cut them into 1-inch thick rounds. then, cut up each round to make 1-inch cubes. the “cubes” won’t be perfectly even, but that’s ok. place the sweet potatoes on the prepared baking sheet. drizzle the olive oil on top. if using, sprinkle the chili pepper or several twists of freshly ground black pepper on top, followed by the salt. toss until the sweet potatoes are all evenly coated in oil, and arrange them in a single layer. bake for 30 to 40 minutes, tossing halfway, until the sweet potatoes are tender and caramelizing at the edges. serve while warm. leftover sweet potatoes will keep in the refrigerator, covered, for about 4 days. gently reheat in the microwave or oven if desired. notes easy dipping sauce ideas: for a snack, i’ll serve these roasted sweet potatoes with ketchup, my shortcut aioli, or spicy mayonnaise (mayo mixed with sriracha, gochujang or hot sauce, to taste). ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes crispy baked sweet potato fries spicy sweet potato hummus savory mashed sweet potatoes share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, egg free, fall, gluten free, nut free, recipes, side dishes, snacks, soy free, spring, super bowl, tomato free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients sweet potatoes ↢ newer game day recipes + what to cook this february older ↣ creamy roasted carrot soup by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) t january 31, 2020 i roast up a sweet potato every sunday afternoon because my son will eat them cold in his lunchbox. he will also eat them hot straight off the pan, so i should say that i’ve learned the hard way to roast up *two* sweet potatoes every sunday afternoon. ★★★★★ reply arthur january 31, 2020 roasted sweet potatoes are awesome! instead of pepper or chili powder (and salt) try dusting the potatoes lightly with cinnamon! the cinnamon adds so much to the flavor – almost like a dessert! reply kate january 31, 2020 i like it! thanks for sharing, arthur. reply erik b. january 31, 2020 great timing, kate! i was making another batch of my sweet potato and pumpkin chili (i cube the sweet potato and use organic canned pumpkin) this morning and saw this post. cooked the sweet potato following your instructions (except i put them in my air fryer oven) and it is delicious! ★★★★★ reply kate january 31, 2020 i love when that happens! thanks for commenting, erik. reply katrina r. january 31, 2020 i love sweet potatoes, and wanted to share a dipping sauce that we use here with ours – had it once at a local burger joint, and we’ve been hooked ever since! it’s just mayo and pure maple syrup mixed together! it’s dee-lish!! reply kate january 31, 2020 sounds interesting, katrina! thanks for sharing. reply hayley january 31, 2020 my absolute favourite vegetable. i choose them over white potatoes all the time! i’ve used your method for roasted sweet potatoes since i made those green rice burrito bowls. definitely love the caramelization they get! reply kate january 31, 2020 thanks for commenting, hayley! reply brittany c january 31, 2020 i sprinkle them with cinnamon and curry powder. sounds like an odd pairing but i promise it’s a winning combo! reply kate january 31, 2020 i might need to try that! reply shirley january 31, 2020 i love roasted sweet potatoes in an arugula goat cheese salad. ottolenghi has an amazing roasted sweet potato recipe with lemongrass creme fraiche (not the healthiest thing to top sweet potatoes with but it doesn’t need much to add a lot of flavor with the lemongrass)! ★★★★★ reply kate january 31, 2020 thank you for sharing, shirley! i appreciate it. reply jean brown february 1, 2020 fantastic site – thank you kate for these delicious recipies. i find the videos the exceptional and ohhh so clear and simple to follow. i am delighted that i discovered cookie and kate – quite by chance, but a real find. jean brown ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 i’m happy you found the blog too, jean! thank you for your comment and review. reply simon andrew february 3, 2020 thanks for sharing this recipe. ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 you’re welcome, simon! reply catherine february 4, 2020 i tried this yesterday evening, turned out great, just finished eating the leftovers for lunch. these recipes are great, i purchased the book and it is supposed to be here today, so excited! ★★★★★ reply kate february 5, 2020 thank you for your support, catherine! i’m happy you love this recipe. reply emily february 5, 2020 these are fabulous! thank you! my husband even ate them (and he doesn’t particularly care for sweet potatoes). :) reply lisa loney february 5, 2020 oh, so that’s why they never got crispy on the outside. i was overcrowding the pan! you have taught me how to perfectly roast sweet pots! thank you. ps- whenever i bring your healthy side recipes to a party all i have to say is ‘cookie and kate’ and the response is always, ‘love her recipes’. you’re a house-hold name! ★★★★★ reply kate february 5, 2020 you’r’e welcome! i’m happy this one works for you. reply helena february 5, 2020 i’ve loved experiencing sweet potato through your blog. want to share a tip that i read through a swedish food blog after having tried your recipe. boil the sweet potato chunks in water with 1.5 tsp baking powder added to it (reacts with the pectin in sweet potato) for 4 minutes. drain, then proceed as in your recipe, but shorten oven time to 30 minutes. the chunks appear slightly mushy at the surface after boiling, but the final result became more evenly roasted and beautifully crisp. apparently, this tip can be used with other root veggies as well. thanks for your excellent recipes and loads of inspiration! keep them coming! ★★★★★ reply kate february 6, 2020 thank you for sharing your tip, helena! reply marilyn eickhoff february 7, 2020 i also cut the sweet potatoes in foil and cook them on the grill when we grill in the summer. reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}