home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more permissions policy with the exception of “guest posts” written by others (see the bottom of this page), i own the content on this web site. it is copyrighted in my name. i want to strike the appropriate balance between getting my content widely distributed while at the same time protecting my intellectual property rights. thanks in advance for your cooperation. without my permission you are free to do the following without my permission: link to my site or any specific post on my site. extract and re-post less than 200 words on any other site, provided you link back to my original post. print off my posts and photocopy up to 50 copies for internal distribution within your own company or organization. print my posts in any non-commercial publication (e.g., company newsletter, church newsletter, class syllabus, etc.), provided you include this copyright notice: “© 2016, michael s. hyatt. all rights reserved. originally published at www.michaelhyatt.com.” not without my permission you must have my express written consent to do any of the following: use this content in for commercial purposes, including selling or licensing printed or digital versions of my content. alter, transform, or build upon this work. re-posting and translation rights i do not permit the re-posting of my posts in their entirety. this is because google penalizes websites for publishing duplicate content. it often can’t tell which site hosts the original, so i risk getting penalized myself for granting permission. in addition, i don’t allow the translation and publication of my work in other languages. i simply don’t have the resources to validate the quality of the work. guest posts guest bloggers retain the copyright to the posts they write. the above permission guidelines do not apply to their work. if you are interested in re-posting or publishing their content, you must contact them directly. i cannot serve as a broker, agent, or contact point. if you have some use for my content that is not covered here, please email me. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed