home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: personal finance competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding personal finance what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas. old pound coins might not be legal tender anymore, but you can still spend them. don’t believe me? read on to discover the banks, charities, supermarkets and coin dealers who will take your old round pounds. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 october 22, 2017 personal finance zero to house-buying hero: how to save a mortgage deposit this time 10 years ago, we were buying a house: our first home, in north yorkshire. the floors were bare boards, the walls were covered in yellow vinyl wallpaper, and the gas and electricity were on pre-pay meters (on a frozen … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty38 february 13, 2017 personal finance retirement planning: your new year’s resolution for 2017? when it comes to saving for your retirement, are you a savings snail, a money mole or a wise owl? skipton building society asked me to team up with them to help raise awareness of the dire state of the nation’s retirement savings – and i have a challenge for you! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 december 8, 2016 personal finance pension planning: like ripping off a plaster the size of your entire body? (ad feature) i dare you: are you brave enough to do what i did and see a snapshot of what your retirement will look like? are you going to be old and bold, or old and cold? get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 october 28, 2016 personal finance how late is too late to plan for retirement? (ad feature) job-hopping in my 20s, self-employed in my 30s… is it too late to salvage a decent pension plan? this is my personal finance weakspot so, when aviva got in touch to ask me to test and write about their new shape my future tool, it seemed like the perfect time to face my bowler-hatted demons. (glurk.) get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 october 21, 2016 personal finance the student money-saving tips i wish i’d known if you follow me on facebook, you will know that i recently wrote a post for matalan’s blog, with some of my top money-saving tips for students. my number one piece of advice? don’t bother keeping up with the student joneses. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 september 23, 2016 personal finance the financial admin diet: little & often recent research from standard life found that just 26% of us regularly put time aside to review our finances. these are the habits i have developed to keep everything in check. it’s like a financial admin diet – except that you are putting pounds on, instead of losing them. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 may 17, 2016 personal finance your financial personality: ideas for money-saving superheroes of the 10 financial personality types, three are particularly common amongst miss thrifty readers: the turbo saver, the enlightened one and the dark striver. how can these financial personality types become smarter savers? get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 march 25, 2016 personal finance discover your financial personality: take the test insurance company aviva has created 10 financial personality types, from a research sample of more than 5,000 uk adults. which one are you? take this free test & find out. (apparently i’m a ‘turbo saver’…) get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 march 17, 2016 personal finance for money bloggers, good news comes in fivers right now, uk money bloggers are enjoying success and recognition. from awards to new website launches, there is plenty going on in our corner of the web. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 september 24, 2014 personal finance all change, all change… a new job, a rebirth as a commuter – and a monthly season ticket, the price of which is a thorn in my tightwad soul. plus some bloggy developments. yep, it’s all change around here… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 july 27, 2014 personal finance it’s not all about ebay! other popular sites for selling second-hand items if you want to make money from your old stuff, the buck doesn’t stop with ebay! here are some other popular sites for selling your second-hand items online. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty16 april 3, 2014 personal finance this is why you need an emergency fund. your emergency fund is supposed to be three to six months of living costs. easier said than done. so here is an emergency fund in use: lights, camera, action! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty16 march 13, 2014 personal finance eight all-time favourite money-saving tips the sun newspaper asked me for my eight top money-saving tips. after blogging about budget ideas for so long, it was difficult to choose. but here are my picks. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 february 12, 2014 personal finance become an expert haggler in four easy steps trust me: to haggle like a pro, you don’t need to be the most articulate or formidable person in the world. a little front goes a long way. here are my top haggling tips. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 january 16, 2014 personal finance ‘black friday’ and ‘cyber monday’: do we really have to do this? this year, my inbox is full to bursting with emails from pr companies and in-house marketing teams, all touting special uk black friday offers. i am unconvinced. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 november 29, 2013 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google