home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog locked in and knocked up – i never thought my first pregnancy would be like this – corona virus and pregnancy march 22, 2020 by erin weiss leave a comment hi friends! as you all know, i'm currently 21 weeks pregnant. my pregnancy started off as a very normal and standard pregnancy, but as weeks go by, my "normal" pregnancy has now been completely derailed due to the corona virus covid-19. i'm currently living in california and our state is on lock down so i really haven't left my house in about 14 days now other than taking the … [read more...] i’m pregnant! check out our pregnancy announcement with our dogs! january 21, 2020 by erin weiss leave a comment hello everyone!!! did i get your attention? i hope so! i am soo excited to share with you guys that i'm officially pregnant!! first time mom here at 36 years old and so excited and scared at the same time. i wanted to share how we announced because i think it's pretty darn cute. i wanted a pregnancy announcement with dogs since our dogs are our family. we have three dogs, … [read more...] my 14 day keto diet – my results are in! september 17, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 14 of my two week keto diet experiment it's day 14 ya'll!!! i survived my 14 day keto diet experiment and i'm here to share my last day experiences as well as my overall weight loss and feelings about how i feel about the diet in general. i can't believe it's been two weeks already! what i ate breakfast/lunch i had to run to the passport office to get a new … [read more...] my two week keto diet experiment – days 12 -13 september 16, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment days 12-13 of my two week keto diet experiment well guys, i do have to say i pretty much dominated this past weekend! i stayed on track for the most part and even created some tasty recipes! yes i had a few of my favorite alcoholic drinks (keto claws) but i'm not ashamed one bit! my two week keto diet is going better than i anticipated. what i … [read more...] my keto diet experiment – day 11 september 15, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 11 of my 14 day keto diet experiment day 11! i can't believe it's already been 11 days since i started this little keto diet adventure and it's getting a bit easier each day. today is a friday which always makes me nervous because i tend to make poor choices on weekends. i'm really going to do my best to be better than last weekend at least. what i … [read more...] my 14 day keto diet experiment – days 8-10 september 12, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment days 8-10 of my 14 day keto diet experiment i'm so sorry i didn't post every day the past couple days but i've been insanely busy with work and after work activities. i've tried pretty hard to stick to my keto diet but i have definitely had a few indulgences in the past couple days. tuesday night my chicago cubs were in san diego so i had to go see them and i may have … [read more...] keto weight loss first week results september 10, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 7 of my 14 day keto diet experiment it's now monday which means i've been on the keto diet for one full week now and have seen some great results in the first week! keto weight loss in the first week is totally possible and not too hard at all! what i ate breakfast i changed it up and had my absolute favorite protein shake for breakfast this morning. this shake … [read more...] my keto diet experiment – days 5-6 september 9, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment days 5-6 of my 14 day keto diet experiment hi friends! i made it through my first keto weekend alive! i was definitely not perfect, actually far from it this past weekend. the best part though was i was still able to see some weight loss! let me explain... what i ate this weekend breakfast breakfasts both saturday and sunday consisted of hard boiled eggs as normal. … [read more...] my keto diet experiment – day 4 september 9, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 4 of my 14 day keto diet experiment day 4 and still alive! it's the last day before the weekend so i'm a bit drained and hoping i don't derail my progress over the weekend on my journey through a 14 day keto diet experiment. what i ate breakfast i woke up a little late this morning and jumped straight into meetings and was too busy to eat. oops, but oh … [read more...] my keto diet experiment – day 3 september 6, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment day 3 and i'm still going. i haven't quit yet! if you're new here, i'm blogging my way through a two week experiment called the 14 day keto diet experiment where i'm attempting the keto diet and sticking to 25 net carbs or less each day. day 3 of my 14 day keto diet experiment day three was a little more difficult for me. i had a bit less motivation, wanted to cheat … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in