home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas latest articles product reviews shopping travel prevnext personalised gifts for the family this christmas – canvaschamp™ review leyla preston wed 31st oct 2018 0shares share tweet pin christmas is around the corner, which means fishing out the christmas tree and assorted decorations and planning your gifts for friends and family. i find the gift part of christmas particularly difficult because i always follow the natural thinking process of: will they like it? do they have it already? so, i am exercising damage control this year and i have opted to send personalised gifts because they are unique to the recipient and chances are they won’t have it already. table of contents but where can i find personalised gifts for the family? who are canvaschamp™? 12 x 12″ square photo pillow so how did the personalised photo cushions turn out? 16″ x 20″ personalised canvas types of canvases select the size image wrap borders optional colour finishing lamination options minor photo touching proof request what did i think of the personalised canvas? what do i think of canvaschamp™? but where can i find personalised gifts for the family? there are lots of websites online that offer personalised gifts and i found a great website called canvaschamp™ who are offering a massive sale at the moment, with canvas prints as low as £3.89. if you sign up now you will automatically receive a coupon for a free 8″x 8″ canvas print. who are canvaschamp™? canvaschamp™ provide personalised gifts, predominantly canvases, at very reasonable prices. they also offer specialised prints, accessories, wall displays, photo gifts and calendars. i will be reviewing three of canvaschamp™‘s personalised gifts, i.e two 12″ x 12″ personalised square cushions and one 16″ x 20″ canvas. 12 x 12″ square photo pillow my sister is leaving to amsterdam soon and one of my best friends has moved back to london from new york, so i wanted to find special gifts for christmas this year that portrayed how important they are to me. i have purchased personalised photo pillows in the past for other family members and friends, and they were all very well received. they still showcase their own personalised pillows on their couch when people come to visit. ordering a photo pillow on canvaschamp™ is very simple. you head over to the ‘photo gifts’ section and then select the first section, ‘photo cushions,’ like below: once you click on ‘photo cushions’, you’ll be taken to the main page, where you can click on ‘start order’ to, well, start your order. you will then be taken to an interactive ‘pillow tool’ where you can select either a square pillow or a rectangle pillow in various sizes. you can also opt for the back side of the pillow to either have a block colour or for an extra £1.99, you can add a personalised photo on the back. my suggestion is that for £1.99 only it’s worth personalising the back with photos. click in the middle of the pillow in the main window to upload your photo. i used a tool called canva to create a collage of photos before i uploaded my image, as you can see below: once you’ve sorted out the image on the front, go to the back side of the pillow. if you are adding an image to the back, then click the right arrow to ‘continue to upload images’. in this section you can choose to upload your image either from your computer, gallery, facebook or instagram. when you have finished uploading your image, you will be taken to the palette colour option, but this is only for the back side if you have chosen to use a block colour. you won’t see the colour palette if you are adding a personalised photo on this side. you also have the option of adding text to your pillow, if you wanted to. finally, you can preview your pillow and if you’re happy, click save and add to your cart. you should receive your personalised photo pillow within 3 to 10 business days. currently, 12″ x 12″ square pillows are only £8.75, which is a price massive reduction from £62.50. plus, when you buy two pillows you get one worth over £30 for free. the code is on the website, so i would utilise this free offer in time for christmas! so how did the personalised photo cushions turn out? interestingly, the photo cushions arrived in a pink bin with the pillow squashed inside and the cover separate (also squashed). i was initially confused as to why canvaschamp™ sent the pillow in this way because it meant that the cover was creased. however, when i took the pillow out of the pink bin (which i’m now using as my food bin) and placed the cover over the pillow, the shape of the pillow ironed out the creases. i am not entirely convinced that the cushion is made of expensive material, but the overall look was pleasing to the eye and i would be happy to send one of these personalised cushions as a christmas gift to a valued family member or friend. 16″ x 20″ personalised canvas my dad’s birthday is coming up on 31st december and he has expressed on many occasions that he would like a sentimental photo of him and his two grandkids that he can put up in his office. so, i thought, here’s my chance to send him a personalised canvas of him and his grandkids! check it out! much like the process for the personalised photo cushion, you head over to ‘canvas products’ and then click on ‘canvas prints’ to take you to the page where you can select the size you want. prices range according to sizes, but there is a huge sale now, so you can receive a canvas for as little as £3.89! that’s crazy! when you’ve selected your canvas, click on ‘start order’ and follow the steps to create your canvas. types of canvases you have options to make your print a wall display, photo collage, hexagon prints, split canvas, photo mosaic, word print, acrylic prints, metal prints, photo boards, lyric on canvas, 3d photo prints or even a bus roll! select the size once you’ve picked your style, upload an image and then select the size you want the canvas to be. canvaschamp™ will recommend a size according to your image if you are unsure. image wrap next you can opt for how you’d like the image to wrap around the canvas. you can go for a thin or thick gallery wrap, a rolled canvas, or a hanging canvas. borders if you’d prefer a border, there are various options for those too. once you’ve selected your choice you will then be given an option to hang your canvas with hooks, a sawtooth hanger, an easel stand, or a dust cover back. optional colour finishing you have the option of changing the colour and style of your canvas, using well known colour finishers like sepia, grayscale and even an andy-warhol effect. there are lots more to choose from so it’s worth playing around a bit with the finish lamination options if you want to laminate your canvas that’s an extra £3.74 on top, otherwise you can opt not to if you don’t want to pay extra minor photo touching if you require any touches to your image like red eye remove or you need to enhance the colour, you can in this section. you can also leave instructions to canvaschamp™ if you require to change something specific proof request you can even ask for canvaschamp™ to send you an email with the design proof before they print to canvas, so you can make sure your image looks perfect before you receive the finished product. what did i think of the personalised canvas? i am impressed with the sturdiness that the thin mfi board at the back of the canvas provides. it means that you’re less likely to poke a hole through the front by accident when propping up against the wall. i would suggest you pick the lamination option so that the quality comes out as best as it can get, but at its most basic setting, the picture quality is great, and i think my dad will be very happy to receive this canvas as his birthday gift. what do i think of canvaschamp™? canvaschamp™ is quite widely used around the world and so has already built up a reputation for quality and reliability. i would say that more care can be taken in the presentation of the photo cushions. but, at least there is a multi-purpose to the bin they provide. i’m more impressed with the sturdiness of the canvas which i haven’t seen when purchasing from other companies. i also found the multitude of options available to you online easy to use and ideal when you are trying to make your gift as unique as possible. i would recommend using canvaschamp™ as a great personalised gifts service. but, i’d start shopping now so you don’t miss the shipping time. *in collaboration with canvaschamp* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:christmaschristmas presentschristmas shoppingpersonalised giftspillow related posts call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... fun things to do with the kids over wint... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... making christmas shopping easier with ch... have you visited the winter wonderland y... mark that special anniversary occasion w... the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... half term fun at ora’s cookery event all i want for christmas is a cardboard ... how to help reduce poverty and change pe... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... six simple ways to decorate your home fo... how to give back a little during christm... looking after your money after christmas ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... how to save money on gifts this christma... christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... my 1st years xylophones product review amazon black friday! what’s on your wish... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... how you can use matched betting to save ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok