skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: personal essay a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on mar 12, 2020 posted in: personal essay, random musings my city feels strangely still right now. i normally hear the sounds from the elementary school nearby, or people walking their dogs, the swish of cars driving by on the street. but it’s oddly quiet at the moment, the only sound the squawking from a few irritable crows whose life mission is to make sure… keep reading i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on feb 24, 2020 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings harvey weinstein was found guilty today on some (but not all) of the charges brought against him by the state of new york. and i find this unbelievable, not because i believed in his innocence in any measure, but because i believe in the ability – as old as history and time itself – of… keep reading 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on jul 30, 2019 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings my husband turned 40 at the beginning of july. i wanted a bacchanalian celebration, cake and lights and streamers and swarms of people, forgetting entirely that this milestone wasn’t about me. the realization would hit me eventually, before too much planning had occurred: he didn’t want a big to-do. nor did he want, he insisted,… keep reading become invincible. then make cadbury creme egg mayonnaise. posted on may 24, 2019 posted in: food, life at home, nothing to do with travel, personal essay the problem with any writer who happens to experience that rare, fleeting phenomenon known as “external validation” is that for a few moments, we go a little mad. which is to say: we start believing our own hype. and for a writer, truly, what greater madness is there than believing in yourself? don’t get me… keep reading the tragedy of monica geller posted on may 14, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay i graduated high school in 1998, either (depending on which arbitrary marker you choose) the last of gen-xers or the first of the millennials. like so many of us who came of age in the 90s, friends was a delightful, aspirational glimpse of the future. (i had no perspective to realize that my friends of… keep reading i have a james beard award and i think you are so great. posted on may 6, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings, site news, writing my writing pitches don’t get accepted often. sometimes an editor will contact me directly, and i’ll send them a piece, and if it gets published, it may do quite well (my piece on bullying for the washington post was an example of that), but it rarely gets to that point. more often than not, i’ll… keep reading what is left when we go. posted on apr 12, 2019 posted in: personal essay, random musings we went to germany, and i cried. not right away. it wasn’t until the last day that i finally did. rand asked if i wanted to rent a car to go down to see my father’s grave. he asked me in the early hours of the morning, when jet lag had us both exhausted but… keep reading there is no such thing as closure posted on mar 29, 2019 posted in: personal essay, random musings i am scheduled to leave for germany in several days. i have already told my husband that i don’t want to go, in a whining tone that stretches syllables out so far that the words they once formed are barely recognizable. as a woman nearing the aging of forty, this is how i am coping… keep reading when online threats become real. (it’s not just trolling.) posted on mar 15, 2019 posted in: personal essay (note: this piece does not link to any of the shooter’s video or manifesto directly, but some of the news sites that i link to may do so. a few include screencaps of his 4-chan forum discussions. please click with caution.) 49 people died yesterday, gunned down in two mosques in coordinated attacks across new… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 6 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.