skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources pet peeves on how much i hate reading class at school february 22, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment since i can remember, i've loved reading. because my love of reading is so well known, and because i strongly advocate literacy and education, it comes as a surprise to many that i hate "reading" as … continue reading about on how much i hate reading class at school thanks, society, for undermining my efforts to keep my son from getting caught up with traditional gender roles february 11, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments not too long ago, while visiting at my parents' house, a trip to home depot was suggested for the sake of obtaining necessary items for a small home improvement project. out of my son's mouth came … continue reading about thanks, society, for undermining my efforts to keep my son from getting caught up with traditional gender roles trying to work through my problems with patriarchy february 7, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments one of the sayings i remember hearing from the way back is, "whom the lord calls, the lord qualifies." i also remember an institute teacher telling the class that when there are two spirits together, … continue reading about trying to work through my problems with patriarchy i hate that my local movie theater doesn’t allow print at home tickets january 2, 2014 by miranda marquit 2 comments we bought movie tickets to see the new hobbit movie, and we went yesterday. we bought our tickets online. i received an email from megaplex asking for feedback. so i let them have it. here's what i … continue reading about i hate that my local movie theater doesn’t allow print at home tickets keeping it real: why our son has never believed in santa claus december 20, 2013 by miranda marquit 8 comments this week, i saw passed around on facebook, a post on the "sweetest" way to let your child know the truth about santa claus. the post shares a story of a mom who answered her daughter's request for … continue reading about keeping it real: why our son has never believed in santa claus so much for art appreciation march 20, 2013 by miranda marquit leave a comment "i don't enjoy children this age."my son's teacher looked at me in disbelief. she had just asked if i would be willing to accompany the class on a field trip. i told her that i was available, and … continue reading about so much for art appreciation go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 go to page 4 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com