home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer politics 3/26/20 8:49am read time: 2 minutes comments peter 'i hate china' navarro slams pelosi for hannity never forget that jared found peter navarro by doing a search on amazon for anti-china trade wankers. by frances langum 1 day ago by heather views: the trump white house is dangerously understaffed, and the staff they have is unqualified hacks like peter navarro. note how he explains to hannity what his job is, so trump has a clue. this interview is so obviously a chance for navarro to justify his employment to donald j. trump. even hannity ends the segment with a "great job," knowing who the audience of one is. and the attack on pelosi is there to keep donnie's interest up. sad! hannity: joining us now, peter navarro. let's talk about the bill. we talked to steve mnuchin. tell us in your words, a lot of crap. how a government is unconscionable. why the american workers had to wait for this coverage. your thoughts. peter navarro: i have been watching this with great dismay. my job here at the white house really is making sure that americans at the front lines get all the protective gear they need. my lane in this whole thing is the supply chain. with the leadership of president trump, the full force of the federal government and the full power of private enterprise, what i have been trying to do his work with companies around this country to get places like new york city, getting gloves and goggles on ventilators. i am focused on that. every time i look over and see nancy pelosi doing stuff like she just did, it does turn my stomach. this is a time that tries our souls. the president is doing a beautiful job and for this to be politicized, that's just wrong. my focus, sean, is making sure that at the front lines on behalf of the president, our health workers are protected so we can beat the virus. hannity: what about the pharmaceutical supplies and medical supplies that we get from china? is that going to be disrupted in any way and how quickly can we produce these things in america? navarro: so glad you raised it. i'm working with an executive order with the president to get our supplies back, our pharmaceuticals back. we have 20 companies, sean, that provide us -- excuse me, 20 countries that provide us $120 billion worth of pharmaceuticals every year. ten of them have already imposed export restrictions, including china. china is the worst. there's others. we need to buy american, sean, for our pharmaceutical industry. the president is going to get that done. hannity: peter navarro, great job. thank you. tags: peter navarro facebook twitter pinterest flipboard email can you help us out? for 16 years we have been exposing washington lies and untangling media deceit. we work 7 days a week, 16 hours a day for our labor of love, but with rising hosting and associated costs, we need your help! could you donate $20 for 2020? please consider a one time or recurring donation of whatever amount you can spare. it will be greatly appreciated and help us continue our mission of exposing the real fake news! donate via: kindest donate via paypal or mail checks to: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 more c&l coverage wh trade advisor insists chinese tariffs are 'not hurting anybody here' despite evidence to the contrary, white house trade advisor peter navarro tells cnn's jake tapper that trump's trade war with china isn't "hurting anybody" in the united states. aug 18, 2019 by heather peter navarro attacks pelosi for supposedly politicizing covid-19 crisis peter navarro takes time out from not doing his job getting supplies to where they're supposed to be going for the coronavirus pandemic to attack nancy pelosi for partisanship with fox's sean hannity. mar 26, 2020 by heather cnn's keilar sends peter navarro packing: 'you're wasting our time' navarro tried to blame obama and china for trump's ineptitude and lack of preparedness for the covid-19 pandemic. keilar destroyed him. mar 26, 2020 by aliza worthington navarro: trump’s trade war ‘about god, country, the american worker’ on fox news, white house trade-policy adviser peter navarro tore into the wall street journal, another murdoch-controlled news outlet, for daring to blame the economic slowdown on donald trump’s trade war with china. sep 10, 2019 by newshound ellen trump's trade czar navarro can't answer economy questions poppy harlow tried to get him to focus: "people are freaking out here." mar 16, 2020 by frances langum ana navarro: latino voters will not get 'election amnesia' about trump ana navarro doesn't buy the trump campaign's 'pivot' on immigration. aug 24, 2016 by frances langum comments we welcome relevant, respectful comments. any comments that are sexist or in any other way deemed hateful by our staff will be deleted and constitute grounds for a ban from posting on the site. please refer to our terms of service (revised 3/17/2016) for information on our posting policy. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc