newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close pets at home here’s how to exercise your dog indoors, according to a professional trainerliving keep your dog happy and healthy, without leaving the house. inigo del castillo about 5 hours ago a dog made a snack run and other ways pet owners are getting creative while quarantinednews pet owners are getting creative during this uncertain time. arielle tschinkel yesterday this new brand loves cats so much, even its boxes convert to cat housesnews they make well-designed products for your favorite felines. kenya foy 3 days ago this cat tree looks like actual tree, so you can bring nature indoorsnews you can even add autumn leaves. inigo del castillo mar 20, 2020 “dogs working from home” is the instagram account we can all relate to right nownews as many of us are only finding out now, working from home isn’t easy. some might say it’s even ruff. inigo del castillo mar 20, 2020 one redditor turned a rescue dog’s shedding hair into artnews a fantastical photo series. kenya foy mar 17, 2020 amazon shoppers are obsessed with this special broom meant for pet hairorganize & clean it has nearly 5,000 5-star reviews. lauren masur mar 10, 2020 reddit has a genius diy “lap” for keeping clingy pets happy when you’re working from homenews this couple used a pair of sweatpants stuffed with a duvet cover and a heating mat, propped up on the couch to make the fake lap. arielle tschinkel mar 7, 2020 the best small dogs for apartments, according to a dog trainerliving looking for a pup that will thrive in a small space or hankering for a lap dog? ashley abramson mar 7, 2020 this handheld vacuum is made for pet hair and has over 4,000 5-star reviewsorganize & clean plus, it's 16 percent off right now. nicole lund mar 3, 2020 this roller pet hair remover is a must if your pet sheds—and it’s 30% off right nowliving it has over 6,000 5-star reviews! nicole lund feb 28, 2020 what you should look for (and avoid) when shopping for a pet-friendly rugliving let us help you find a rug that both you and your pet can agree on. kelsie schrader feb 27, 2020 having a dog could make your child a better reader, according to a studynews while you probably already know that owning a dog can teach children responsibility, it turns out that dogs can motivate kids to read for longer periods, too. laura martisiute feb 24, 2020 looking to pamper your pet? nordstrom has the paw-fect pop-upnews items range from comfy beds, novelty toys, and outfits so adorable we want a matching set. stephanie trovato feb 23, 2020 12 surprising things you need to hear about fostering dogsliving "feel the heartbreak and do it anyway! because it's not about you, it's about the dog.” olivia muenter feb 18, 2020 this bespoke cabinet opens up to reveal a hidden ‘cat flat’news it’s described as “the world’s first non-ugly cat furniture.” inigo del castillo feb 15, 2020 this modular cat house kit is the upgraded cardboard box your pet has always wantednews the katbox can become “a tent, room, attic, tower, hideaway, lookout tower: the list goes on and on.” laura martisiute feb 8, 2020 you’re more likely to splurge on your dog than your cat—here’s whynews a recent study explains why you might be spending more for fido than fluffy. laura martisiute feb 6, 2020 this robot will keep your cat entertained when you’re not homenews this robot is purr-fect. laura martisiute feb 2, 2020 5 things people renting with pets should never doreal estate so you can get your security deposit back. jennifer billock jan 19, 2020 amazon prime has free ‘cat tv’ that you can stream for your petsnews this week, i was introduced to the wonders of tv for cats. tara bellucci jan 16, 2020 21 great dog breeds for small apartmentsliving if you’re an animal lover living in a small apartment, we have good news: your square footage doesn’t have to disqualify you from getting a dog.dog trainer russell hartstein, ceo of fun paw care puppy and dog training in los angeles, says dogs are time intensive, not space intensive—meaning the time you spend with them ultimately matters more than the size of your home. ashley abramson jan 2, 2020 let your pet share your bed—you might just sleep betternews apparently, co-sleeping with a furry friend goes a lot further than having a warm body to snuggle next to. kenya foy dec 17, 2019 5 pretty plants that are safe for catshome projects cat parents, rejoice! you don't need to worry about your pet nibbling on these plants. molly williams nov 13, 2019 celebrate national cat day with these top-rated amazon finds that cat parents swear byliving ten thoughtful treats for your kitty (and you!) on national cat day! sholeen damarwala oct 29, 2019 your cat is as loyal to you as a dog, according to this studynews doggo devotees are unlikely to relinquish the rights to refer to their furry companions as “man’s best friend,” but a group of oregon researchers gathered evidence that suggests cats are equally faithful. kenya foy oct 28, 2019 here’s how to adopt a retired police dogliving working dogs—just like working humans—retire eventually, so where do k9s go when they’re done with their life’s work? hopefully right into your home. l. daniela alvarez oct 17, 2019 these pups failed to become guide dogs—here’s how to adopt themliving career change dogs, also unfortunately known as failed training dogs, are a great alternative to many families who desire a specific breed and/or a pet with an obedience training background. l. daniela alvarez oct 4, 2019 this travel company wants to pay your dog as its next ‘furrfluencer’news the truth is that the cost of dog ownership averages somewhere between $1,400 and $4,300 annually, which is a substantial amount for family members that can’t support themselves or contribute to household expenses…or can they? kenya foy oct 4, 2019 spoil your pup with halloween-themed dog toys, all under $10living the chew toys are stuffed fabric versions of classic halloween candies. mia nakaji monnier sep 17, 2019 spoil your pup on national dog day with walks and treats (of course)news canine lovers don’t need an excuse to smother their animal besties in affection, belly rubs and doggie treats. that’s pretty much done on a daily basis due to dogs’ tendency to be irresistible and all-around awesome creatures. however, since it’s officially national dog day, more doggo spoiling activities are in order so humans listen up and brace yourselves for endless hours of fetch and more. kenya foy aug 26, 2019 this beagle-shaped airbnb is puptasticnews doggone it, why didn't we think of it? kenya foy aug 26, 2019 i tried that tennis ball phone attachment to improve my dog selfies, and it kinda workedshop it didn’t exactly go as planned. elizabeth entenman jul 13, 2019 9 amazon products (under $35) that will solve your “hair everywhere” problemsorganize & clean if it feels like your home is literally covered in hair — whether it's yours or your pet's — you're not alone. kaitlin stanford jun 13, 2019 the most popular cat names of 2019 might surprise youliving we can safely say that the following list of most popular cat names of 2019 is something that only people are concerned about, since cats know their names but decide to ignore you. since we know plenty of fur parents put a ton of thought into choosing suitable cat monikers (from using pet name generators to seeking cat-naming advice from animal experts), let’s dive right into some of this year’s most common cat names as revealed by uk cat homing organization cats protection. kenya foy jun 13, 2019 7 tips for moving with pets, according to animal trainersreal estate to help make the moving process easier on fido and fluffy, we’ve asked animal trainers and behaviorists for their best pet-friendly moving tips. brittany anas jun 7, 2019 7 questions every pet owner should ask before signing a leasereal estate want to make sure your pet is really welcome in that new apartment? experts say to ask these seven questions before signing a lease. brittany anas may 30, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc