skip to main content advertisment search search toggle navigation main navigation life sciences physical sciences environment social sciences education policy medicine brain & behavior technology free thought pharyngula paul z. meyers posts by this author friday cephalopod: i succumb to peer pressure and will mention octopolis september 22, 2017 wow. every person on the planet saw one version or another of this "octopolis" story and had to send it to me. it was the subject of a friday cephalopod a year ago, you know. apparently, this is the second octopus city discovered, which is interesting -- they're exhibiting more complex social… friday cephalopod: we all float down here september 15, 2017 pale, drifting quietly, long grasping arms, cold and anoxic…we all float down here. yes, i'm going to go see it this evening. it won't be half as creepy as the reality of the dark deep, though. friday cephalopod: reflecting my current mood september 8, 2017 stephanie bush friday cephalopod: sinking blue september 1, 2017 i think it's a portrait of my mood right now. friday cephalopod: undead squid penis august 25, 2017 first, a little background: when squid mate, a male transfers its sperm to a female enclosed in complex structures called spermatophores. these are accumulated in the spermatophoric sac, a storage organ inside the mantle cavity, before ejaculation through the penis. squid that spawn in shelf waters… friday cephalopod: squink august 18, 2017 if you've ever wondered what squid ink is made of, here's your answer: generally, cephalopod ink includes melanin, enzymes related to melanin production, catecholamines, peptidoglycans, free amino acids and metals. but mostly melanin. and mucus. mary's monday metazoan: son of spongebob august 14, 2017 the sequel is going to go a bit dark: this is a deep ocean sponge. it's dark and ominous, and it's also carnivorous, with sticky spines for capturing and killing passing animals. i think that thing has been waiting for me in a lot of my nightmares. friday cephalopod: that reminds me -- it's lunchtime august 4, 2017 time to forage. friday cephalopod: tomorrow is an open house at mbari, and i have to miss it july 28, 2017 you californians have no excuse. go to the coast and stop by the monterey bay aquarium research institute and see the vampyroteuthis. oh, wait, that's the fake inflatable one. i don't think you'll get to dive down into the deep dark and see a real one. you might not want to. friday cephalopod: it's a whole weekend of developmental biology july 14, 2017 thenode friday cephalopod: live slow, grow big july 7, 2017 living a languorous life and occasionally nibbling on a jellyfish has its virtues. mary's monday metazoan: a very handsome schnozz july 3, 2017 nikola rahmé friday cephalopod: it's always bondage with these guys june 30, 2017 mike bartick friday cephalopod: the good news about global warming june 23, 2017 we're making the planet a better place for cephalopods. it also helps that humans are busily destroying teleost populations. david wiltshire p.s. there's a video at the link titled "8 reasons octopuses rule the oceans". don't bother with it. it is 8 incredibly idiotic reasons that have nothing… friday cephalopod: beats a fake nose, glasses, and a mustache june 16, 2017 friday cephalopod: at last, my pretty, i have you trapped! june 9, 2017 trapped in a cunning prison! oh, no, what are you doing now? foiled again! friday cephalopod: needs a cephalopod deity on the right june 2, 2017 roy caldwell, via tony morelli mary's monday metazoan: that's not a tumor, it's a sponge may 29, 2017 australian geographic where do numbers come from? may 20, 2017 when i was addressing this lunacy about how god exists because minds and mathematics are supernatural, i was also thinking about a related set of questions: biologically, how are numbers represented in the brain? how did this ability evolve? i knew there was some interesting work by ramachandran on… friday cephalopod: face like a puckered sphincter may 19, 2017 i usually only have good things to say about cephalopods, but it's hard to avoid the truth here: vampire squid aren't exactly beauty queens. mbari mary's monday metazoan: the aliens are everywhere! may 8, 2017 this is an echinoderm, a feather star, out for a swim. (via owl mirror) friday cephalopod: all we're missing is the spinach may 5, 2017 i was reading this account of an encounter between three cuttlefish -- a consort male escorting a female, who is challenged by an intruder -- and the story was weirdly familiar. the intruder’s pupil dilation and arm extension began the first of three brief bouts over the course of about four… mary's monday metazoan: what big eyes you have! may 1, 2017 hhmi friday cephalopod: goin' in for the big hug april 28, 2017 coral reef photos mary's monday metazoan: if you could dance like that, i'd be all eyes for you april 24, 2017 i'm relieved my courtin' days are over, because even if i did paint my butt iridescent colors, i don't think i could twerk it up over my head. friday cephalopod: we was so poor, all we'd have to eat is the shell of the crab april 21, 2017 and we liked it! the nautilus files tissue organization field theory april 14, 2017 it's been a while since i brought everyone up to date on the progress of my ecological development course, because i've been busy. so have the students. after our spring break i subjected them to the dreaded oral exam, which actually isn't so bad. i tried to engage them less in an adversarial role… botanical wednesday: i am not fooled april 12, 2017 that isn't the carrizo plain national monument. it's obviously oz. mary's monday metazoan: salpflower april 10, 2017 ethogram cephalopods are natural-born editors april 7, 2017 did you know cephalopods may have traded evolution gains for extra smarts? i didn't either. i don't believe it, anyway. the paper is fine, though, it's just the weird spin the media has been putting on it. the actual title of the paper is trade-off between transcriptome plasticity and genome… pagination current page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 page 5 page 6 page 7 page 8 page 9 next page next › last page last » advertisment donate scienceblogs is where scientists communicate directly with the public. we are part of science 2.0, a science education nonprofit operating under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. please make a tax-deductible donation if you value independent science communication, collaboration, participation, and open access. you can also shop using amazon smile and though you pay nothing more we get a tiny something. science 2.0 oxygen overshoot: the mass extinction of 75 percent of life on earth dear boris johnson - uk's policy on covid-19 needs evidence based science debate - we must not delay - every minute saves lives is triscuit a portmanteau of 'electricity' and biscuit? 'whiskey webs' could be used to identify counterfeit spirits coronavirus and world economics: cause for optimism science codex german scientists identify microbe that could help degrade polyurethane-based plastics brain mapping study suggests motor regions for the hand also connect to the entire body insights from ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in patients with kidney disease global study shows how marine species respond as oceans warm study shows legal marijuana products too strong for pain relief more reads breaking the standard model is really, really hard! “faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, dead perfection; no more” -lord alfred tennyson ahh, the standard model of elementary particles and their interactions. it's right up there with general relativity -- our theory of gravitation in the universe -- as the most successful physical theory of all-time. image credit: doe, nsf, lbnl, and cpep, via http://www.cpepphysics.org/. while… weekend diversion: the simplest solution to rising co2 (synopsis) “i believe that we are here for each other, not against each other. everything comes from an understanding that you are a gift in my life — whoever you are, whatever our differences.” -john denver so why not lead by example? if you think there's too much carbon in the atmosphere (because there is), if you think the earth is undergoing global warming and climate change because of it (which the… the one and only serbian restaurant in manhattan a couple of times over the past few years i tried to find if there was a serbian restaurant in new york city, but google could not find one. so, i gave up looking and assumed there wasn't one. and that was true - until recently. last night at the meetup, nikola trbovic told me there is one now - opened just last june: kafana on avenue c (between 8th and 9th street, see reviews here and here). so… © 2006-2020 science 2.0. all rights reserved. privacy statement. scienceblogs is a registered trademark of science 2.0, a science media nonprofit operating under section 501(c)(3) of the internal revenue code. contributions are fully tax-deductible.