skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides philadelphia on the first snowfall of the season posted on jan 9, 2018 posted in: city guide, random musings our friends insist they are not romantics. when they were married in philadelphia half a decade ago, an unexpected storm had shut down the city. no one showed up to open the church that day so they were married in the snowy lot outside, the drift coming up to their knees. they celebrate their anniversary on the first snowfall of the season not because they are romantics, they insist, but because they are bad with dates. the result is that they never quite know when it will be. when the snow starts to fall, they make a reservation, they uncork a bottle. they insist they aren’t romantics, but when they tell us this, i swoon. this year, we were in philadelphia for the first snowfall of the season. we are from the pacific northwest; any precipitation that isn’t rain is always a bit of a novelty. we walked through philadelphia in the snow. and i noticed how it stuck to his hair and his eyebrows. and how the city looked like a model train set. it never got dark. deep lavender is the best that a night sky can achieve when there’s snow on the ground. this rebellion against darkness has always been my absolute favorite part of any snow day. like the earth is defying its own bedtime. we wished our friends a happy anniversary as they insisted that they were not romantics. we nodded. they’re full of shit. share this post facebook twitter tags philadelphia, snow never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: post navigation previous post next post leave a comment more from the blog a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on: mar 12, 2020 read more i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on: feb 24, 2020 read more anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on: feb 14, 2020 read more view posts by category... "lifestyle" 24 hours advice air travel ask the everywhereist attractions awesome book city guide complaint letters cupcake death match dialogues dick move events festivals food food porn friday geological marvels guest posts hotels infographics life at home life in the rest of the world local color lost in translation loving the entrepreneur mondays with mindy museums nothing to do with travel packing paris parks personal essay photos polls products random musings rants and raves restaurant round-up restaurants road trips s.t.i.n.k.s scams shopping shows site news sites somewhat useful info steal this idea stories the week in travel top ten tuesday reverie uncategorized why i travel writing wtf wtf wednesdays view archives facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.