welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog 3 spooky courses for the halloween season published on: oct 31, 2017 by justine goulart 3415 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether you celebrate halloween, all hallows’ eve, día de los muertos (day of the dead) or just like to get dressed up and go trick or treating for candy, these spooky courses will give you a bit of a scare as you learn about the origins of human fossils, our skeletons, unravel the mysteries and the meanings of life and death and explore the history and... read more about 3 spooky courses for the halloween season get college ready with 8 great edx courses published on: jun 15, 2017 by sara reich 4835 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post if you’re starting college soon, it’s important to make sure you’re prepared for your classes by refreshing your knowledge of the fundamentals or learning something new. explore these 8 prep and introductory courses on edx to kick-start or restart your college career! what online courses should i take to prepare for college? published on: jan 16, 2017 by alice randall 10194 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post refine your writing and language skills get ahead in computer science refresh your math knowledge learn how to effectively communicate train your brain to think critically if you’re headed to college later this year, it’s likely that you’ve already completed your application forms, sat entrance exams and will (hopefully!) accept an offer to attend a school. you might think you’ve done all you can to... read more about what online courses should i take to prepare for college? computer science, language & philosophy. courses starting soon on edx! published on: mar 04, 2016 by monil shah 5312 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! engage in thought provoking discussions about philosophy, learn a new language or examine facial recognition software. edx has exciting new courses from the world’s best institutions and universities starting soon. go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy published on: feb 02, 2016 by justine goulart 4332 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post punxsutawney phil did not see his shadow. so, is it really an early spring? every year, on february 2nd, punxsutawney phil emerges from his burrow in the early morning hours as thousands watch in suspense to see if he will see his shadow. legend goes, if punxsutawney phil sees his shadow, there will be six more weeks of winter weather in the u.s. if he doesn’t... read more about go beyond groundhog day – learn science and philosophy philosophy, apps & music. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 29, 2016 by monil shah 4097 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post explore our courses and enroll today! learn how to better study consciousness, interact with virtual patients or build the next big mobile app. edx has exciting new courses starting soon in a variety of subjects to help enhance your skills and knowledge. space, philosophy and analytics. courses starting soon on edx! published on: nov 20, 2015 by justine goulart 4954 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn the history behind space travel, how to use business intelligence tools to share data, or discover the depths of your own creativity and thought process. check out an edx course today and learn from the world’s leading universities and institutions. engaging new courses are starting soon! celebrate world philosophy day with edx published on: nov 19, 2015 by becky pineo 4809 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post “everyone thinks, of course, but to think well requires first thinking about thinking.” world philosophy day, celebrated each year on november 19, was created by unesco to honor philosophical reflection, encourage the sharing of philosophical heritage, open minds to new ideas, and inspire public debate on the challenges confronting our society. this year, world philosophy day will emphasize the use of new communication technologies to... read more about celebrate world philosophy day with edx mahesh nanwani: connecting legal and moral philosophy published on: jan 26, 2015 by becky pineo 3497 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post hong kong i am originally from pune, india, and migrated to hong kong in 1997, where i attended delia memorial school. i am a recent graduate from university of london with bachelor of laws (hons.), and work in a solicitor firm based in hong kong’s legal jurisdiction. i took harvardx justice, which focused on moral philosophy, complimenting my undergraduate degree in law. the connection between legal... read more about mahesh nanwani: connecting legal and moral philosophy search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close