home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads sociologist anne wortham on authenticity, the real meaning of individualism, and the choice to abstain from activism chinua achebe on how storytelling helps us survive history’s rough patches the intelligence of emotions: philosopher martha nussbaum on how storytelling rewires us and why befriending our neediness is essential for happiness labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks philosopher martha nussbaum on how to live with our human fragility “to be a good human being is to have a kind of openness to the world, an ability to trust uncertain things beyond your own control.” by maria popova in 1988, bill moyers produced a series of intelligent, inspiring, provocative conversations with a diverse set of cultural icons, ranging from isaac asimov to noam chomsky to chinua achebe. it was unlike any public discourse to have ever graced the national television airwaves before. the following year, the interviews were transcribed and collected in the magnificent tome bill moyers: a world of ideas (public library). but for all its evenness of brilliance, one conversation in the series stands out for its depth, dimension, intensity, and timelessness — that with philosopher martha nussbaum, one of the most remarkable and luminous minds of our time, who sat down to talk with moyers shortly after the publication of her enormously stimulating book the fragility of goodness: luck and ethics in greek tragedy and philosophy. martha nussbaum moyers begins by framing nussbaum’s singular approach to philosophy and, by extension, to the art of living: moyers: the common perception of a philosopher is of a thinker of abstract thoughts. but stories and myths seem to be important to you as a philosopher. nussbaum: very important, because i think that the language of philosophy has to come back from the abstract heights on which it so often lives to the richness of everyday discourse and humanity. it has to listen to the ways that people talk about themselves and what matters to them. one very good way to do this is to listen to stories. reflecting on the timeless wisdom of the greek myths and tragedies, particularly euripides’s hecuba, nussbaum considers the essence of good personhood, which necessitates accepting the basic insecurity of existence and embracing uncertainty. she tells moyers: the condition of being good is that it should always be possible for you to be morally destroyed by something you couldn’t prevent. to be a good human being is to have a kind of openness to the world, an ability to trust uncertain things beyond your own control, that can lead you to be shattered in very extreme circumstances for which you were not to blame. that says something very important about the human condition of the ethical life: that it is based on a trust in the uncertain and on a willingness to be exposed; it’s based on being more like a plant than like a jewel, something rather fragile, but whose very particular beauty is inseparable from its fragility. the paradox of the human condition, nussbaum reminds us, is that while our capacity for vulnerability — and, by extension, our ability to trust others — may be what allows for tragedy to befall us, the greatest tragedy of all is the attempt to guard against hurt by petrifying that essential softness of the soul, for that denies our basic humanity: being a human means accepting promises from other people and trusting that other people will be good to you. when that is too much to bear, it is always possible to retreat into the thought, “i’ll live for my own comfort, for my own revenge, for my own anger, and i just won’t be a member of society anymore.” that really means, “i won’t be a human being anymore.” you see people doing that today where they feel that society has let them down, and they can’t ask anything of it, and they can’t put their hopes on anything outside themselves. you see them actually retreating to a life in which they think only of their own satisfaction, and maybe the satisfaction of their revenge against society. but the life that no longer trusts another human being and no longer forms ties to the political community is not a human life any longer. illustration by alice and martin provensen from ‘the iliad and the odyssey: a giant golden book.’ click image for details. things get significantly more complicated, however, when we find ourselves in binds that seem to call for tragedy by asking us to make impossible choices between multiple things we hold dear. nussbaum illustrates this by pointing to aeschylus’s agamemnon, in which the king-protagonist has to choose between saving his army and saving his daughter. the same tragedy plays out on a smaller scale in everyday dilemmas, such as juggling your career with being a good parent. most of the time, as nussbaum puts it, the two “enrich each other and make the life of each of them better.” but sometimes, practical circumstances pose such insurmountable challenges like an important meeting and your child’s school play happening at the same time — one of these two priorities inevitably suffers, not because you are a bad parent or a bad leader, but because life just happens that way. therein lies the human predicament — the more we aspire to live well, according to our commitments and priorities, the more we welcome such tragic choices. and yet the solution isn’t not to aspire. nussbaum tells moyers: tragedy happens only when you are trying to live well, because for a heedless person who doesn’t have deep commitments to others, agamemnon’s conflict isn’t a tragedy… now the lesson certainly is not to try to maximize conflict or to romanticize struggle and suffering, but it’s rather that you should care about things in a way that makes it a possibility that tragedy will happen to you. if you hold your commitments lightly, in such a way that you can always divest yourself from one or the other of them if they conflict, then it doesn’t hurt you when things go badly. but you want people to live their lives with a deep seriousness of commitment: not to adjust their desires to the way the world actually goes, but rather to try to wrest from the world the good life that they desire. and sometimes that does lead them into tragedy. perhaps alan watts was right when he advised not to fight the world’s contradictions but to conceive of the universe as “a harmonious system of contained conflicts.” bill moyers: a world of ideas is a treasure trove in its entirety, featuring many more conversations with luminaries spanning art, science, psychology, literature, the creative spirit, and just about every aspect of life. complement this particular one with nussbaum’s advice on living a full life. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 14, 2014 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2014/03/14/martha-nussbaum-bill-moyers-world-of-ideas/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturemartha nussbaumphilosophypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.