about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ photo and recipe sharing policy thank you for your interest. please keep in mind that my content is copyrighted material and i’ve worked very hard to produce it. photo use using my photo to promote my recipe or my blog in general: you are welcome to share one photo as long as you prominently link back to the original post. please do not share more than one image from a post without my explicit permission (email me). note that you may not republish the recipe itself. thank you for promoting my work! using my photo to promote something else: you must request permission beforehand. i do not allow my photos to be used as clip art/stock images unless we’ve negotiated compensation and licensing details. recipe use you may not republish my recipe(s). i don’t allow other websites or publications to publish my recipes. i simply receive far too many requests, and i want cookieandkate.com to remain the exclusive source for my recipes. again, my recipes are copyrighted material and may not be published elsewhere. content syndication i don’t allow my recipes or posts to be syndicated. no exceptions. thank you for your understanding. there is no need to contact me for confirmation of the permissions presented on this page. for questions that are not answered above, email me at hello (at) cookieandkate.com. comments maggie april 9, 2013 hi there, we recently found and loved your post about chai coconut ice cream. we featured it on our blog and adhered to your policies. we just wanted to let you know! you can see it here: http://blog.foodservicewarehouse.com/2013/04/09/dessert-ideas/ thanks! maggie reply kate april 13, 2013 thank you, maggie! i appreciate it. reply hannah february 5, 2017 hi kate, i’m a big fan of your healthy banana bread recipe (heck, all of your recipes for that matter!) which inspired me to create an altered version. of course i linked the post back to your original recipe and stated that my inspiration came from your recipe – i hope this is ok? :) here is the post: https://hannahandfitness.com/2017/02/05/the-best-healthy-banana-bread/ thanks! hannah x reply lauren may 1, 2013 hi kate! i loved your chai coconut ice cream recipe and featured it on my blog today! i linked back to your blog, of course. here is the link: http://adashofcinema.com/2013/05/01/flavor-of-the-month-chai/. thanks! lauren reply kate may 6, 2013 lauren, thank you so much for the feature! i love all things chai. reply maryn may 24, 2013 hi kate! you have a beautiful blog. we featured two of your photos with a link back to your recipes here and here: http://sandyandmaryn.com/wear/memorial-day-style/ http://sandyandmaryn.com/wear/cinco-de-mayo-style/ thanks for inspiring us! maryn reply kate may 29, 2013 thank you, maryn! reply amy august 13, 2013 a friend recommended some recipes on your website and i love them! i write the newsletter for my local farmers csa and included a link to your summer squash tacos with avocado chimichurri sauce. thanks! here’s a link to our site and our newsletter. www.sierrabounty.org http://us5.campaign-archive1.com/?u=d337efaa7bf7f01b8eafcf129&id=4432e79cc1 reply kate august 14, 2013 amy, thank you so much for promoting my recipe/blog. your csa sounds like a wonderful program! reply carolyn september 21, 2013 i loved your winter apple slaw recipe. here is the link to my blog’s promotion of your recipe. i used my own photo that i took after making the recipe. http://dcwellnessscout.com/?p=2403 reply cate january 18, 2014 hi kate in crete we traditionally always bake with olive oil – we do have rather a lot of it! i love your recipe for olive oil, lemon and rosemary shortbread, a winning combination. having baked it i’ve shared it on our facebook page and twitter, obviously crediting you with a link to your site. hope that’s ok. you can see it here http://on.fb.me/1az6agr. have only just discovered your lovely site and look forward to a lot more exploring. reply kate january 24, 2014 cate, thank you for sharing! i’m glad you enjoyed the cookies. reply tina april 3, 2015 hi kate, i love your site! i shared a link to your green goddess hummus recipe in mine. i hope this is ok. if not, please let me know. i’m new to blogging and want to do the right thing. here’s the link: http://radiantbloom.net/?p=34 i make many of your recipes at home on a regular basis. my freezer is usually stocked with your sweet potato black bean veggie burgers. reply kate april 4, 2015 hey tina, yes, you did the right thing! you’re always welcome to link to my site! (i don’t know any blogger who wouldn’t want you to link to their site, btw.) your hummus looks fantastic! reply amy october 15, 2015 kate, we’d like to include your autumn kale salad with fennel, honeycrisp and goat cheese in our healthy eating in all stages of pregnancy class. do we need permission to print and distribute copies to class participants and, if we do, how do we get permission? it’s a great recipe! amy reply kate october 25, 2015 hi amy! i’m so sorry i didn’t see your question sooner. i am fine with you printing the recipe for educational purposes. please be sure to credit my website for the recipe! reply jaime october 28, 2015 hello! i just wanted to let you know i plan to share your whole grain pumpkin waffle and easy gluten free waffle recipes as part of a post on my site. i used one picture and linked to both the recipes and your home page. i believe i followed your policy. i haven’t publicized the post yet, but you can see it here: http://thewellnesshq.com/my-fav-pancake-and-waffle-recipes/. let me know if you have any concerns. thank you for the recipes! we love them! reply kate october 29, 2015 thanks, jaime! love your post! reply jackie november 17, 2015 i made your butternut quash vegan chili and loved it, so did my granddaughter she is vegan. i tried to print the recipe but could not! is this something that we can’t do ? reply kate november 17, 2015 hi jackie! i’m so glad you two enjoyed the chili. i’m sorry you had trouble printing the recipe. i don’t recommend printing from my website like you do other websites (by going to file > print). instead, look for the little print icon to the right of the recipe title. then you’ll be able to print just the recipe! reply shamira west november 23, 2015 hi kate! i featured a recipe on my blog, but adhered to your policies! i used my own photos, because i had the opportunity to make your recipe myself! it was so good and i really wanted to share it. i just spoke about how much i loved how simple the recipe was etc. i hope that is okay! http://www.shamirawest.com/blog/blogger-spotlight-cookie-and-kate-broasted-butternut-squash-soup reply kate november 28, 2015 thank you, shamira! your site is lovely. reply andrea beazley february 5, 2016 hi kate, i used two of your recipes in my latest blogpost with one photo and a link back to your blog. thank you for all the wonderful recipes (i’m always pinning them). cookie is adorable btw. post is here: http://goodhealthgirl.com/super-healthy-super-bowl-snacks/ reply adrienne march 1, 2016 hey, i made your banana muffins and they were amazing. i’m posting my pics on instagram and crediting you with your blog link for the recipe. thanks and best, adrienne inger rdn reply elle @ only taste matters april 11, 2016 hiya, i featured your arugula and cremini quiche on my blog, only taste matters, and adhered to your policies. i just wanted give you a heads up in case you wanted to share it! you can see it here: http://onlytastematters.com/breakfast-baking-with-veggies-75-gluten-free-recipes/ thanks! reply corey april 23, 2016 kate, i’ve been following you since i gave up meat last fall. hands down your recipes are the best! btw you are very attractive. reply laura april 28, 2016 hi kate, i just wanted to share with you, that we have featured your sun-dried tomato, spinach and quinoa salad in a blog post. link is below. thank you for sharing your recipes on your blog, they are an inspiration to us all! laura, you me and number three. http://www.youmenumberthree.com/#!new-find-cookie-kate-celebrating-whole-foods/c21kp/5722756c0cf232b075d1568c reply lori plank may 7, 2016 i made you butternut squash frittata with fried sage recipe for the family this morning and everyone loved it. i was a little worried about my little one but she ate it all up! thanks for the recipe and keep on sharing. reply shalva june 6, 2016 thanks for the recipe inspiration! i just linked back to your sweet potato salad recipe on my weekly meal plan blog post. https://lifeisnoyoke.com/meal-plan-week-1/ reply the going green couple february 8, 2017 hi kate, we came across your apple and kohlrabi salad and loved the idea. we included it here in our curated list of 10 easy work lunches for the newbie vegetarian http://www.thegoinggreencouple.com/10-easy-work-lunches-newbie-vegetarian/ and we of course prominently linked to your site. thanks for making such delicious recipes. sincerely, the going green couple reply kate february 9, 2017 thank you for including my recipe! i appreciate the promotion. reply shawn d. legg march 11, 2017 hello- just wanting to make sure i am complying with your policies. yesterday i shared the link to your spaghetti squash burrito bowl on my site- facebook.com/nurse2realtor/ is this ok? your blog is inspiring. thank you, shawn reply kate march 13, 2017 of course, shawn! thanks for the share. reply nikki, choosing differently march 19, 2017 hi kate, i was looking for healthy recipes using broccoli the other day, and found your amazing greek broccoli salad. (i love the photo of cookie with the broccoli stalk – it’s my favourite part too!) i wanted to let you know that i shared a link to your recipe in an article on my site about the top anti-cancer foods (one of which is broccoli). you can see the article here: https://choosingdifferently.com/article/anti-cancer-foods/#broccoli and i followed your “one photo with link” rule as outlined above. thanks for all of your great recipes. nikki reply christine birnbaum april 4, 2017 i was looking for quick pickling recipes as part of the food in jars april challenge and came across your spicy pickled radish recipe. an extra plus was that used honey (that’s how i found your site initially; made your banana bread recipe using honey last week and it was excellent). so easy to make and the color of the product was incredible; and it tasted wonderful. here’s a link to the fb food in jars community site where i posted a link to your recipe. https://www.facebook.com/groups/foodinjarscommunity/ hope to make the pickled cauliflower recipe next. love the look and feel of your site as well as all of the tips for creating a site. thanks! christine reply kate april 6, 2017 thanks so much, christine, and thanks so much for sharing! reply andrea christian parks, md/mba april 27, 2017 i put a link on my blog from your advice on how to best make quinoa light and fluffy – i’ve tried your way and it works wonderfully! i made sure to site you as the author and did not put the actual recipe on my site, just a link to your website for the recipe. it’s on ajourneytowholeness.com under eating green and will go live on 4/28/17. thanks for your wonderful recipes! andrea reply kate april 27, 2017 thank you for letting me know, andrea, and for including me in your post! i appreciate the support. :) reply carol june 16, 2017 hello kate, just a short note to tell you – i love your recipes. i have two copies of your new cook book. one to remain perfect. the other is already getting splashed and “gooped-up” while i try your recipes. ha, ha – is “gooped-up” even a real word??? thank you so much for coming into my life. kindness regards, carol reply kate june 16, 2017 it’s a word now! and that’s a great idea–i always sauce up my cookbook pages, too. i’m so glad you found my blog, and that you love the book, too! reply janis july 4, 2017 hi kate, i’m an editor at lifetime daily. we publish articles on active aging and healthy living. i just wanted to let you know that we love your cashew milk recipe! we included it as one of our favorite recipes in today’s article on how to choose meat and dairy substitutes. http://www.lifetimedaily.com/dairy-and-meat-substitutes/ best, janis reply kate july 9, 2017 thank you, janis! reply leanne july 31, 2017 hi kate, my name is leanne and i have a food blog called crumb top baking. i just wanted to let you know that i recently posted a recipe for 5-minute red pepper arugula hummus that was inspired by your recipe for green goddess hummus. i stated in my post that your recipe was the inspiration and i provided links to both your recipe post and your cookbook. i hope that’s okay. you can view my post at http://www.crumbtopbaking.com/5-minute-red-pepper-arugula-hummus/ also, i just wanted to say that i’m loving your cookbook! your recipes for honey whole wheat pizza dough and peanut butter chocolate chip cookies are now staples in our house! all the best, leanne reply adrienne september 14, 2017 hi kate, i create a monthly newsletter with information for women in high performance work environments about building a better brain and a better life. i like to include fun facts, and among others, this month i decided to include the research linking maple syrup to prevent cell clumping in the brain that leads to dementia. so… what do you put maple syrup on? pancakes of course. and given that so many people benefit from a gluten-free diet, i’m going to include the picture plus a link to your recipe for pumpkin spice pancakes. just wanted to let you know and say thank you for the great recipes you create! cheers, adrienne www.mycommsadvisor.com/blog twitter: @commsadvisor reply kate september 25, 2017 sounds good, thanks adrienne! reply kate moss january 17, 2018 the cinnamon toast quinoa so good!!!! i love quinoa anyway, but this is yummy …and so simple that i had to share your website w/friends on fb. i did not print recipe…just title…and where interested ones could find it and you!!! i hope this was all ok!!! i plan to follow your lead as i want healthier style of eating. i was a vegan for 5 years and veghead for 10!!! i moved closer to family some time back and adopted some not-so-healthy habits!! thank u. ] reply kate january 18, 2018 i’m happy you like it! and yes, totally ok to share on facebook. i appreciate the support. if you would want to leave a star review since you liked it so much, that would be great! thank you, kate. reply paul daniel march 22, 2018 hi kate, i absolutely love your recipes. every week i look for something new to cook from your blog; you have a real impact on others. thank you for giving me joy when cooking something new from your page. cheers, paul reply kate march 24, 2018 i’m glad you are finding joy in cooking! that’s what it is about, paul. thank you! reply ew july 1, 2018 wanted to let you know that hallmark channel has posted an almost identical version of your spinach artichoke enchiladas. the instructions are different (and they suggest using “your favorite enchilada sauce”) but the filling ingredients are basically identical. not sure if this is a violation or not just wanted to give you a heads up just in case. http://www.hallmarkchannel.com/home-and-family/recipes/artichoke-enchiladas reply kate july 2, 2018 thank you, ew for sharing. i will take a look. reply earlyne wiebe july 31, 2018 hi cookieandkate! just made your ‘best vegetable lasagna ‘ oh my! my husband who is a meat n potatoes kinda guy had two helpings. it was so so good. i grated the carrots and zucchini and added chopped mushrooms. i will make this recipe again for sure. love your recipes, can’t wait to make more. i give it 5 stars ⭐️ thanks! earlyne wiebe reply kate august 3, 2018 thank you! reply adrianne delgado april 25, 2019 hi kate, i am a dietitian and huge fan of your work. i direct patients all of the time to your website. i recently wrote a book about healthier eating and would like to include 5 star recipes at the end of each lesson (i call them 5 stars because 5 out of 5 of my kids will eat them). i have a few favorites from your website and cookbook that i would love to share but i realize you have strict policies. is there a way i can get your name and work out to more people without violating your policies? thanks so much for your help. reply kate april 25, 2019 hi adrianne! i’m so happy to hear that you are loving my recipes and sharing them with your clients. unfortunately, my content is copyrighted and i just get far too many requests. you can share a link to the recipe, but that’s it. here is more on my policy: https://cookieandkate.com/cookie-and-kates-photo-and-recipe-policy/ reply suki august 31, 2019 hi kate! i originally found your website while googling vegan lentil soup recipes. yours was/is delicious!! (i add some mashed yams or sweet potatoes to my version wh i think enhances the flavors.) but i wanted to share an idea i came up with that you might find useful. i make a lot of burritos and one day decided to cook them in our panini maker. they turned out great! crispy w/o frying and wonderful w a good green sauce, some yogurt or sour cream and other fresh veggies on top. thanks for all your creativity and healthy recipes! suki reply raquel january 16, 2020 hello! i featured your scrambled eggs w/goat cheese in a blog post that went live today. i followed your policy, but wanted to let you know! here’s the link reply kate january 16, 2020 thanks for the highlight, raquel! i will have to take a look. reply e february 15, 2020 hi. you might want to check sevenoaksmums [dot] com – they have copied your healthy banana bread recipe in full, including image. reply arjun march 11, 2020 hi kate, i would like to use your recipe and one picture on my blog linking back to your blog. is that okay ? best regards, arjun reply kate march 11, 2020 hello, unfortunately i get far too many requests for you to share my recipe itself. you can post one picture and directly link to the blog, but not the recipe itself. reply leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}