can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × reader's photos photo: hummingbird is a lovely little marvel design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows environmental carpe diem design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement slideshows science reader's photos photo: hummingbird is a lovely little marvel 2 of 1647 credit: loren chipman / flickr our photo of the day comes from california's beautiful central coast. photographer loren chipman identifies this petite pixie aa a rufus hummingbird ... or at least she thinks so. she writes, "um, i'm pretty sure. less certain as to male/female. all i know for absolute certain is that it was fascinating to watch, and inspirational as to mother nature's ability to have such marvelous creatures for us to admire." after further consideration and help from commenters, she adds, "now much more certain it’s a rufus and not our more usual anna’s guests! see comments. i’ve been rescued." regardless, we are just smitten with the cuteness of those tiny feet... would you like to see your nature photo featured as the treehugger photo of the day? join treehugger’s reader photo pool on flickr and add your pictures to the group. alternatively, send it to photos@treehugger.com with "photo of the day" in the subject line. 2 of 1647 team treehugger march 26, 2020 more slideshows photo: pelican packs itself up like a pro photo: young weedy seadragon soars like a superhero photo: stop the presses, we've got fluffy owlets photo: a little leaf beetle that lives in the rainforest photo: and they're off! photo: american pika delivers a spring bouquet photo: great gray owl goes hunting photo: king of the pier piling show more slideshows please enable javascript to view the comments. about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved