home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » photography a walk in the woods november 7, 2016 brittany bailey 15 comments last week i waved goodbye to my son as he hopped onto the school bus. as i walked back toward our house i began ruminating on why i'd been feeling low and irritable. usually the cause is because i've been working too hard or spending excess time taking care of the family's needs. … [read more...] fall leaves, inspiration, photography diy photography light studio set up january 23, 2013 brittany bailey 60 comments can i just tell you that i have a bone to pick with mother nature lately. she seems to sense when i'm just finishing up a diy project that really needs to be photographed. case in point, last week i wanted to photograph my "you rule valentines", but we had 4 days of gloomy … [read more...] photography photography tips – better composition and lighting tips january 30, 2012 brittany bailey 46 comments i know y'all have your favorite blogs. if you think about one of them now, can you tell me what it is you love about the blog? okay, maybe the subject matter or the writing. but, how does the site look? is the design appealing? how about the photos? i know i am personally drawn … [read more...] photography better composition – improving your photographs june 3, 2011 brittany bailey 4 comments my friend kristi has dedicated june to "spreading the bloggy love". she asked several (fabulous) bloggers to "give back" by writing a post sharing their best blogging tips. you aren't going to want to miss a day, because she has some big names sharing their tips and … [read more...] guests, photography photography secrets for shooting in your home may 12, 2011 brittany bailey 59 comments i'm not sure what i ever did to annoy mother nature, but it seems to me that every time i finish a project and need to photograph it, the weather turns ugly. case in point: my cake stand was completed the day the tornadoes ripped through north carolina. but, rather than be … [read more...] photography hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok