skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about photography best photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts by jamie whether you’re a budding artist looking to make your photos pop, a blogger who wants to create awesome featured images and pinterest pins, or a seasoned professional interested in streamlining your workflow, photo-editing software is a must-have. high-performance software is an important tool to have in your arsenal. it can help you make the most … read morebest photo editing software for photographers 2020 – novice to experts categories photography, graphic design how to sell photos online – comprehensive guide for 2020 by jamie do your friends and family rave about your photography skills and think you should try to sell your photos online? think they’re right but not sure how or where to get started? today, you can easily sell photos and make some extra cash. if you’re good and you know how and where to sell photos … read morehow to sell photos online – comprehensive guide for 2020 categories make money online, photography 2020 social media image sizes cheat sheet by jamie social media platforms are forever changing the image sizes and formats, so to keep you all updated i have re-created the 2016 social media image sizes cheat sheet and updated it to 2017. the need for strong social media presence has soared in 2016 and will only increase in prominence in 2017. this is why you really need to keep up to speed with your business… categories social, cheat sheets, photography the best gifts for photographers – 2020 edition by jamie if you’ve spent even a little bit of time with a photographer, you know that their hobby tends to run on the expensive side. lenses, lighting kits, computer software and even new cameras are all regular and expensive purchases. even if you have the hundreds of dollars some of these items cost, knowing the specific … read morethe best gifts for photographers – 2020 edition categories photography, tech buying guides the best cameras for vloggers and vlogging – definitive buyers guide 2020 by jamie everything you need to know about cameras that are perfect for vlogging in 2020! with the explosive growth of vlogging, thousands of consumers are grabbing their smartphones and making vlogs of their daily life. if you’d like to do the same, you should invest in a high-quality vlogging camera. although it’s possible to use the … read morethe best cameras for vloggers and vlogging – definitive buyers guide 2020 categories photography, tech buying guides best free image hosting sites guide for 2020 by jamie when you want to share a photo or a gallery with friends, family, a message board, or even the entire internet, an image hosting site is the best way to upload, store, and share your files. however, there are many image hosting sites, all with different features. the best site for you will depend on … read morebest free image hosting sites guide for 2020 categories photography, blogging 50 of the best photography books – 2020 by jamie while anyone can grab a camera or smartphone and take a picture, that doesn’t necessarily make them a photographer. what separates professional photographers from amateurs is knowing about concepts such as lighting, negative space and focus. the best way to improve your craft is to practice and learn from professionals. photography experts agree that one … read more50 of the best photography books – 2020 categories photography, tech buying guides the best laptops for photo editing 2020 by jamie a complete buyers guide for laptops that are ideal for creative photoshop graphic designers & photographersover time, the software programs used to edit photos have undergone significant improvements, and photo editing has become an activity that anyone can do. as the software for editing photos becomes more advanced, it will require better hardware for smooth operation. … read morethe best laptops for photo editing 2020 categories tech buying guides, photography the best wordpress themes for photographers in 2020 by jamie whether you’re a casual photographer who is learning the trade or an experienced photographer who snaps photos for a living, you know that presentation is everything. when it comes to creating a wordpress website to show off your photos, you want only the best; while the standard wordpress theme is more than suitable for showcasing … read morethe best wordpress themes for photographers in 2020 categories wordpress, photography image formats cheat sheet – all you need to know about jpegs, tiffs, gifs, pngs & bmps by jamie not all image formats are created equal. all have different uses and different attributes. know exactly what image format to use for web use, print, social platforms, logos and much more with this handy cheat sheet. share this image on your site! <!—– copy and paste this code into your post —-></p><br /><br /> <h3>image … read moreimage formats cheat sheet – all you need to know about jpegs, tiffs, gifs, pngs & bmps categories cheat sheets, photography best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub