skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search photography assignments you can do if you’re stuck at home all day practical ideas: 1. shoot 4k video on your camera (or 1080p), then play the video on your laptop or phone, and pause and shoot screenshots of whatever stills you like. for example i watched this video in full-screen, and just took screenshots of any stills i liked: 2. do 20 bodyweight pushups (right now) then photograph anything you see around the house which interests you. just shoot your food or whatever! these don’t gotta be “good” photos. just have fun with it! 3. shoot videos, then turn them into animated gif’s i really like ‘giphy capture‘ on the mac. this is how i make my animated gif’s from my videos. 4. selfie project just shoot selfies of yourself at home. you don’t gotta share them with anyone. your own face is the best face to shoot. 5. curate your portfolio of your favorite photos look through all your old photos, and select your favorites. upload them to your website/blog. curating your photos means selecting the photos you care for! henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta