project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure crafts kids craft ideas photo bookmark diy gift idea share pin how to make a personalized photo bookmark diy using your photos “reading gives us someplace to go when we have to stay where we are.” –mason cooley in a world full of technology like digital music, social media, and cell phones i think i will always love the feel of a physical book versus a digital one. i enjoy turning the pages and keeping my mark. now that my daughter is officially reading chapter books, i thought i’d make a photo bookmark for each of us. here is how to make these fun extra-large photo bookmarks. time: 30 minutes materials: photos scrapbook paper paper cutter glue stick hole punch yarn scissors photo bookmark instructions: i used sprocket photos that are 2″ x 3″ inches, so you want to trim your paper to a slightly larger size to create a boarder. alternatively, you can print and cut any type of photo you like. social media is a great resource to find the perfect ones. i trimmed these bookmarks to 8” x 3.5”. cut both the brochure paper and scrapbook paper to create a sturdy bookmark. i got this paper in a scrapbook pad i got from michael’s. glue the two pieces together and cut a hole for the tassel using a hole punch. to make the tassel, wrap yarn around four fingers spread out about 20 times. cut one looped end keeping the yarn folded. cut a long piece of yarn for the tassel string and tuck it inside the looped yarn. tie another piece of yarn around the top looped end to form the tassel. trim the end of the tassel and tie it onto the bookmark. lastly, print your favorite photos. you may need to crop and resize them. stick three pictures on the front and back of your bookmark. diy bookmarks kids can make i don’t think i will ever get used to reading digital books. i love the feel of a bounded book in my hands and turning those pages to find out what happens next in the story. you may have noticed that because of this, i’ve made a lot of diy bookmarks! here are a few: diy felt pizza bookmark diy pug bookmark printable definition bookmarks printable coloring bookmarks paint color sample bookmarks these make great gifts for: teachers grandparents friends parents coaches change the patterns and colors of paper to fit a certain holiday like red and green for christmas stocking stuffers or pastels for an easter basket. more diy bookmark videos if you need more inspiration for bookmarks. here are two video tutorials i did for a fun felt pizza bookmark and for an easy paper pug bookmark that i made for mia’s friends from school. how to make a felt pizza bookmark how to make a paper pug bookmark hope you like these! i’ll leave you with one more quote. “books are a uniquely portable magic.” –stephen king this post was originally published in 2017 for hp and has since been updated and improved. 2 comments join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « 12 spring craft ideas for adults reader interactions comments susan says january 15, 2019 at 8:23 am what size do you make the bookmarks. length and width? reply dinah wulf says january 15, 2019 at 8:46 am hi susan! hp sprocket photos are 2x3 inches, so you want to trim your paper to a slightly larger size to create a boarder. i trimmed these bookmarks to 8” x 3.5”. cut both the brochure paper and scrapbook paper to create a sturdy bookmark. glue the two pieces together and cut a hole for the tassel using a hole punch. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas diy costume beard and mustache copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more