welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog how to start your stem career – six science courses published on: jul 12, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 8004 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post the shortage of qualified candidates for stem – science, technology, engineering, and mathematics – jobs has dominated headlines in recent years. there were nearly 8.6 million stem jobs in may 2015, representing 6.2 percent of u.s. employment, and this will only increase in the years ahead. in fact, many top companies, such as ge, have launched workplace initiatives to curate and train talent to fill... read more about how to start your stem career – six science courses may the fourth be with you published on: may 03, 2017 by jill fisher 18528 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post androids, aerodynamics, and avoiding the dark side: edx courses for star wars fans it’s safe to say that the team at edx hq has its fair share of star wars fans. this film franchise has everything: an epic hero-story that spans galaxies, family angst that spans generations, a mystical force that transcends good and evil, and perhaps most importantly: robots, rockets, aliens, and lasers. here... read more about may the fourth be with you esther jose: acing the ap physics test with edx published on: mar 17, 2016 by monil shah 5650 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post esther jose, age 16, a high school senior from chennai, india, contacted us to share her story about how edx courses helped her achieve the highest score (5/5) on the ap physics exam. the school i attend follows the tamil nadu state board of education, this is a system that primarily emphasizes rote memorization. to illustrate, we have books issued by the government for each... read more about esther jose: acing the ap physics test with edx go beyond the exam. learn the physics of everyday life. published on: feb 16, 2016 by linda huber 5974 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post this is a guest blog post from georgetownx’s ap physics c: electricity & magnetism exam course team. in 2014, more than 4 million students took an advanced placement (ap) exam to assess their level of preparation for rigorous college courses and, in some cases, to achieve college credit while still in high school. leading up to the ap exams in may, online courses present an excellent way for... read more about go beyond the exam. learn the physics of everyday life. business, language and engineering. courses starting soon on edx! published on: jan 22, 2016 by justine goulart 5678 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn something new with edx learn a new language, how to pitch to a venture capitalist, or understand the different notes and chords of a song. with over 85 global partners, edx courses offer high-quality education from the world’s leading universities. whether you’re looking to expand your knowledge or develop a new skill, edx has the course for you. check out our courses and enroll today! marketing, physics and economics. courses starting in 2016 from edx! published on: dec 18, 2015 by justine goulart 6466 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn about marketing’s role within an organization, issac newton’s three laws of motion, how to preserve our tropical ecosystems or how to apply calculus and economics to real world problems. as the year winds down and you look forward to celebrating the holidays with family and friends, we hope you will take some time to explore edx courses, especially those starting in the new year. start 2016 smart and... read more about marketing, physics and economics. courses starting in 2016 from edx! career development, physics and data analysis. courses starting soon on edx! published on: dec 11, 2015 by justine goulart 5506 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn the value of a flexible work environment, the importance of effective communication, how to design accessible software across multiple markets and cultures, or discover the myths about climate change. set a personal goal to learn something new and enroll in an edx course today. calling all learners: nine new courses starting on edx published on: sep 18, 2015 by rachel lapal 5691 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post becoming an edx student is easy! once you’ve registered, find a course that interests you and start learning today. edx enables you to take courses from the best professors, universities and institutions across the globe, while connecting with smart and passionate people, just like you. today we’re highlighting nine new courses that start next week. start learning today! spotlighting ten new online courses published on: sep 13, 2015 by patrick cavallario 5126 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what do application development, learning spanish, international law and environmental science have in common? they’re just a few of the new online course starting soon on edx. whether this is your first course or you’re a seasoned online learner, check out our spotlight of ten new courses and enroll in one today!*advanced placement® and ap® are trademarks registered and/or owned by the college board, which... read more about spotlighting ten new online courses 7 free courses to spark your curiosity this fall published on: sep 04, 2015 by rebecca.sacks 6283 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post curiosity is the key to a long and happy life. whether you are preparing for your first ap* exam, seeking advice from top entrepreneurs, or curious to understand how electric circuits impact the world around us, there’s a course for you on edx. take a look at these exciting and innovative courses starting soon, and enroll in one today! *advanced placement® and ap® are trademarks... read more about 7 free courses to spark your curiosity this fall page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close