home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv latest headlines coronavirus royal family prince andrew world news arts headlines most read wires games my profile logout login feedback friday, mar 27th 2020 7pm 42°f 10pm 40°f 5-day forecast advertisement show ad piers morgan for mailonline's recent articles piers morgan: coronavirus doesn't give a damn about the economy, president trump - if you recklessly reopen america anytime soon, you'll expose millions of people to extreme danger and prove you care more about money than lives 24/03/20 11:56 president trump wants to reopen america for business. frustrated by the election-threatening collapse of the us economy, he is desperate to see his beloved stock and job numbers going up again rather than continuing to dive. trump is bemused as to why everything has had to grind to a sudden halt and would like everything back to normal 'very soon'. there's just one problem: coronavirus hasn't got the presidential memo - and doesn't care what the president of the united states has to say about anything. ...read piers morgan: boris johnson's shameful dangerous dithering will have already cost a lot of british lives - lock the country down now, prime minister, before coronavirus runs us over 23/03/20 12:55 piers morgan: the harsh reality is that boris johnson is flailing - and flailing so badly it's going to cost a lot of lives. from the moment the coronavirus reared its ugly head, he's shown an extraordinary reluctance to tackle it head on. the world health organisation first signalled its concern that we could be facing a global pandemic in the middle of january. yet as china, where it started in the city of wuhan, instantly threw the kitchen sink at trying to defeat it, britain pretty much turned a blind eye. ...read piers morgan: if coronavirus killed young people like it does the old, we would have shut down society weeks ago - so the least dumb, selfish millennials like vanessa hudgens can do is stop partying and like, wake the f*ck up 18/03/20 11:53 the staggeringly crass and selfish stupidity of spoiled millennial idiots like vanessa hudgens will help coronavirus kill more people and they need to drop their blinkered stupidity and wake up! yesterday, the high school musical star turned on her instagram live 'story' and broadcast her insensitive thoughts on the coronavirus to her 38.4 million followers, many of them young and impressionable. the tone-deaf actress said it was inevitable people would die from the virus and then issued a lame apology the next day which only compounded her error. indeed, amid the terrifying coroanvirus crisis, despite some millennials being stoic and sensible, some are behaving like complete and utter cretins. i couldn't believe the idiocy of so many spring break students flocking to the beach in florida, hugging and kissing each other like it was ve-day. or the crass stupidity of all those flocking to bars on st patrick's day around america yesterday, when even ireland shut down every pub in the country. in the general scheme of things right now, the thoughts of someone like vanessa hudgens shouldn't matter. but when someone with 38.4 million followers who hang on her every word is spewing such dangerous nonsense, it actually does matter. it can literally mean people live or die. ...read march 2020 piers morgan: don't be comical donny, mr president - you don't have this lethal virus under 'tremendous control' and americans who can see this with their own eyes will punish you at the ballot box if you keep lying to them piers morgan: coronavirus has declared war on the world - so we must all stop our selfish whining and remember that you can't fight - and win - wars without making some sacrifices piers morgan: stop playing down the deadly threat of coronavirus, mr president, and start telling americans the truth - or it may cost you your presidency piers morgan: even i was charmed by meghan and harry's joyful grinning in the rain photo - so why don't they do more of this and less of the hypocritical preaching and moaning? piers morgan: right now it feels like we're living through the first reel of a zombie movie and unless our leaders have the guts to take some hard decisions soon we could be stumbling into a coronavirus horror story february 2020 piers morgan: bloomberg's got all the gear but no idea - moderate democrats were pinning their hopes on monotone mike to save them from bernie but his diabolical debate performance proved he's got no chance against trump piers morgan: pardon the crooked swamp creatures - if you must - mr president - even though it makes you look like a hypocrite. but if you start acting like america's lawman it makes you a dictator piers morgan: harry and meghan claimed they quit for peace, privacy and time to focus on saving the planet - in fact they just wanted the freedom to exploit diana's death for millions of dollars from environment-destroying bankers piers morgan: this was the worst, wokest oscars in history - but as hollywood's virtue-signalling hypocrites milked their woke preaching dry, the joker was on them piers morgan: j-lo and shakira's semi-naked, pole-writhing, crotch-grabbing halftime show was outrageously hot and sexy - but had nothing to do with feminist empowerment and was totally inappropriate for a super bowl watched by millions of kids piers morgan: the democrats' smug, sanctimonious schiff show impeachment debacle has gifted president trump a super bowl-sized touchdown just as election 2020 kicks off - and left them needing a hail mary in november january 2020 piers morgan: i can only conclude prince andrew's refusal to talk to the fbi about his pedo pal epstein is because he's a sniveling coward with something to hide. the queen should stop him hiding behind her skirts piers morgan: kobe bryant personified the power of hard work, sacrifice, playing to win and never giving up - here are 10 of his greatest life lessons that could help us all be a mamba president trump's got davos cheering the us economy, hillary beating up a socialist heading the dem polls, and an impeachment farce heading towards another big win for him. no wonder he's laughing his way back to the white house piers morgan: spare me your 'patriotic' crocodile tears, harry - you didn't have to quit. you chose to ditch the queen, the monarchy, your military comrades and your country… to become a royal kardashian and keep meghan happy piers morgan: thomas markle's anguished text messages expose meghan and harry as a heartless pair who care more for complete strangers than their own family piers morgan: meghan and harry haven't been criticized because of her color but because she's a selfish social climber and he's a weak whiner - and by playing this despicable race card they have grossly libeled all of britain page 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 next where did boris johnson catch coronavirus… and who did he infect? how pm came into close contact with politicians and health chiefs over past 10 days before testing positive the prime minister has been holding press conferences at downing street in recent days with the likes of chancellor rishi sunak, communities secretary robert jenrick and uk health chiefs. 804 comments 8 videos 82 shares who boris johnson has been in close contact with over past ten days global deaths from coronavirus races past 20,000 with 450,000 confirmed cases as 182 countries and territories battle the deadly virus - with 3 billion people now in lockdown worldwide the tallies, using data collected from national authorities and information from the who, are likely to reflect only a fraction of the actual number of infections. pictured: a boy in palestine. 506 comments 3 videos 4.2k shares global deaths from coronavirus races past 20,000 with 450,000 cases priti patel calls for uk borders to be closed to stop new coronavirus cases being imported from worldwide hotspots the home secretary priti patel wants to close uk borders to international arrivals. mrs patel is concerned about arrivals from the us, china and iran, and less worried about eu arrivals, a source has said. 3.6k comments 2 videos 58k shares no 10 slaps down priti patel over call for uk borders to close 'it's chaos. we're simply lambs to the slaughter': as government continues to come under fire for not ensuring medics are tested for coronavirus, one nhs doctor hits out at the 'shameful decision' that is keeping vital staff away from the front line an nhs doctor has shared the view from the frontline as staff are banned from getting fresh air during shifts. the doctor, working from a south england hospital says wards are 'thick with contamination'. 380 comments 1 video 187 shares nhs doctor describes 'chaos' in britain's hospitals rick stein refuses to pay staff wages while his restaurants are closed due to coronavirus... just days after praising his workers on social media workers voiced anger at how stein, 73 - whose restaurant empire started in cornwall - had talked publicly about their importance while leaving them unable to pay their bills. 494 comments 1 video 3.3k shares rick stein won't pay staff during coronavirus crisis we'll all have to foot bill: chancellor rishi sunak hints that taxes will rise in future to pay for his enormous coronavirus rescue packages rishi sunak last night hinted that future taxes will have to rise to pay for the unprecedented economic bailouts for business, workers and the self-employed. 2.6k comments 1 video 677 shares rishi sunak hints that taxes will rise in future to pay for packages new articleshometop back to top home u.k. news sports u.s. showbiz australia femail health science money video travel columnists dailymailtv sitemap archive video archive topics index mobile apps screensaver rss text-based site reader prints our papers top of page daily mail mail on sunday this is money metro jobsite mail travel zoopla.co.uk prime location published by associated newspapers ltd part of the daily mail, the mail on sunday & metro media group dmg media contact us how to complain leadership team advertise with us contributors work with us terms do not sell my info privacy policy & cookies advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement