wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » themes » pixelgrade coupon pixelgrade coupon pixelgrade is a popular wordpress commercial theme shop. they offer beautiful wordpress themes for several business niches including blogging, magazine, photography, portfolio, restaurants, and directory listings. all their themes are highly flexible for advanced style customizations. the themes are also compatible with popular wordpress page builders, so you can easily design custom landing pages. the best part is that wpbeginner users can get a 15% off on the purchase of pixelgrade using our exclusive pixelgrade coupon code. coupon code clickhere (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use pixelgrade coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive pixelgrade coupon code helps you get 15% off on their wordpress themes. all you have to do is follow our instructions below to properly redeem pixelgrade coupon code, so you can get the best discount on pixelgrade. first you need to visit the pixelgrade website using our link on wpbeginner and click on the ‘browse our themes’ button. this will take you to the premium themes page. you’ll see a message that coupon code is applied successfully. scroll down and select a theme that you want to purchase from pixelgrade. on the next page, you’ll see the complete details and images of the theme that you selected. click on the ‘view pricing’ button to continue. this will take you to the pricing page. you can either pay per year or pay a one-time purchase fee. it also gives you an option to buy the complete themes bundle. click on the ‘purchase’ button below the plan that you want to purchase. this will take you to the checkout page. you need to add your billing details and select a payment method. scroll down and click on the ‘complete my purchase’ button to complete the purchase. we hope you found our pixelgrade coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals. other amazing deals inmotion hosting coupon get 50% off inmotion business class hosting and a free domain. view this deal » updraftplus coupon save 40% on updraftplus, a fully-featured backup plugin for wordpress! view this deal » fancythemes coupon get 15% off on all fancythemes when you use this exclusive coupon for wpbeginner users. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.