newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close plants gardening this rental has rustic brick, vintage finds, tons of plants, and one cute cattours the unit’s arched windows, exposed beams, and rustic brick are charming, and the building’s location can't be beat—just steps away from art galleries, cozy cafes, and the nation’s oldest residential street. apartment therapy submissions 2 days ago this bohemian rental apartment has tons of plant-displaying ideas to stealtours it's also got some very adorable cats! apartment therapy submissions 3 days ago you can virtually tour these lush gardens around the world to celebrate the first day of springnews what better way to welcome spring? nicoletta richardson mar 19, 2020 grow a garden salad these 13 vegetables you can plant in early springhome projects turn your garden into a produce aisle with these 13 easy-to-grow vegetables. erin johnson mar 15, 2020 jumpstart your spring garden by planting these colorful blooming perennialshome projects 16 different flowering perennials that will give your garden charm year after year. erin johnson mar 14, 2020 these popular houseplants are under $5 at aldi right nownews it's one of the store's weekly deals. inigo del castillo mar 10, 2020 deal alert: costco has 7-foot-tall palms for less than $30 eachhome projects you can bring home a royal-looking palm for a commoner's price. megan baker mar 9, 2020 this $5 ikea item solves the most stressful part of plant parenthoodnews it takes the guesswork out of watering. inigo del castillo mar 8, 2020 7 easier under-the-radar alternatives to the most popular yet finicky houseplantshome projects all the beauty, without all the hassle. molly williams feb 27, 2020 4 tips for keeping plants happy and healthy during the winterliving if you’ve managed to get through the winter so far (partially) unscathed, congrats! it takes a lot of will power to prep your home for the cold weather, maintain your mental health (winter blues are the worst), and play holiday host while holding it all together. obviously, self-care is super important during this time of year, but the plants in your life also require additional, seasonal-specific tlc to survive the winter fully intact. kenya foy feb 27, 2020 this affordable fake tree on amazon has 4.5 stars and over 2,000 reviewsliving it costs under $60! stephanie trovato feb 12, 2020 we ordered the 5 most popular fake succulents—and this is the best oneliving succulents are hard, and you're not a failure if you've killed one (hundred) of them. just... don't buy any more. live ones, i mean. taryn williford feb 10, 2020 these stacked shipping containers are actually high-tech farmsnews there's a whole sea of produce inside. kenya foy feb 2, 2020 6 unique succulents that aren’t all over instagram (yet)home projects these six beauties are real head-turners. molly williams jan 30, 2020 how not to kill your houseplants, according to botanistsliving these professionals know what they're talking about. inigo del castillo jan 29, 2020 you can buy a loved one (or yourself) a heart-shaped succulent on amazonnews a green way to say “i love you.” nicoletta richardson jan 24, 2020 $9 at trader joe's could get you good luck all year—or at least, a pretty planthome projects this little guy's perfectly tiny-home-sized. megan baker jan 23, 2020 7 overlooked plants that thrive in an apartment with overzealous heathome projects landlord got your apartment a little too toasty? no worries—these plants can take it. erin johnson jan 22, 2020 this sustainable candle has a terracotta vase that doubles as a planternews this new candle collection's lifespan goes beyond the wax. nicoletta richardson jan 22, 2020 feeling lonely? tending a garden can help, experts saynews we’re not talking about making friends with your plants (but that could work too). inigo del castillo jan 22, 2020 do plants feel pain? well, kind ofliving it's a fair question. this botanist thinks the answer comes down to linguistics. ashley abramson jan 21, 2020 how to choose fake plants that actually look good, according to home stagers real estate faux it 'til you grow it. kate streit jan 17, 2020 4 surprising plants that can thrive in a drafty apartmenthome projects just because your landlord won't upgrade your windows doesn't mean you have to stick with faux plants. audrey carleton jan 16, 2020 how to force bulbs so they bloom indoors any time of yearhome projects it's like a natural magic trick! molly williams jan 8, 2020 this minimal boho renovated home has plant & art displaying ideas in every roomtours the heidi house is a 1949 ranch in the heart of east nashville, tennessee malori futral and her husband nate slowly renovated over two and a half years. apartment therapy submissions jan 7, 2020 a small shared seattle apartment is full of green plants and smart storagetours it's a quiet little oasis in the hustle and bustle of a city that grows and changes everyday. apartment therapy submissions jan 5, 2020 these will be 2020’s most popular plants, according to one expert “plant mom”news these plants are sure to be seen taking over interiors throughout 2020. kenya foy dec 24, 2019 how to grow and care for paperwhites (and make it spring year-round)home projects yes, you can grow bulbs inside! here's how. molly williams dec 18, 2019 the $20 amazon find every (big!) plant lover needs to have at homeliving if you don’t have plants, it seems like customers are using these for other purposes as well. olivia muenter dec 17, 2019 ficus audrey is 2020's fiddle-leaf fig tree, according to plant expertsstyle get ready to see her pop up in house tours galore. sarah lyon dec 11, 2019 check out this pastel christmas tree made of succulentsstyle this festive decor is nothing short of #treegoals. kenya foy dec 11, 2019 one super simple way to make your hanging planter look high-endhome projects this fix is cheap, easy, and super luxe-looking. erin johnson dec 9, 2019 7 easy and affordable ways to keep your plants alive this winter, according to amazon reviewershome projects nope, they are not wilting under our watch! sholeen damarwala dec 9, 2019 a 650-square-foot berlin apartment fuses lush fabrics with over 76 plantstours most of the objects and furniture in this rental apartment are either handmade, refinished, found, or upcycled! apartment therapy submissions nov 30, 2019 7 big leaf houseplants to bring big style to your homehome projects want to make max impact with your plants? try one of these beauties. rebecca straus nov 21, 2019 how to grow and care for ornamental kale and cabbagehome projects it's not just for salads! this cool weather-loving plant is a colorful addition to window boxes and other outdoor planters. molly williams nov 18, 2019 this 100-year-old new orleans home is a tropical paradise inside and outtours before diogo moved in, the 100-year-old spanish revival home looked like a frat house. there were couches everywhere, different colors on the walls in every room, and the yard was a wreck. jacqueline marque nov 18, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc