home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum playlists 55 posts the big four 2018% solid pop music the year's best music. it's quite long! listen to this one on shuffle. big hit energy 21 hits and songs that sound like they should be. new music friday updated every week. best at the top, worst at the bottom. 21st century pop a work in progress. the century's greatest pop moments. and the whole lot… have a read playlists the briefing celebrate horse february with the ultimate neighlist listen along as popjustice celebrates pop's greatest horse-related imagery have a read playlists the briefing best to worst — every uk christmas number one single lots of songs people liked during lots of decembers have a read playlists i'm streaming of a shite christmas no no no. like ho ho ho, but not. have a read playlists 21st century pop the 21st century has thrown up its fair share of monster bangers. here they all are in one playlist. have a read playlists big hit energy a playlist for those in a hurry: the best 21 songs of right this very moment. have a read playlists the briefing a 100-track playlist featuring the best song from every now that's what i call music album from now 1 to now 100 in six and a half hours. have a read playlists i love gdpr we have updated our playlist policy. have a read playlists the popjustice in-store playlist new artists and an exciting shopping experience. have a read playlists 2018% solid pop music an ongoing playlist of the year's best new music. have a read playlists playlist: bell end — songs with bongs is there anything better than a song with a bell in it? no there is not. welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 27: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 2 months, 0 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits an amazing charli xcx interview-slash-chat mutya keisha siobhan: their amazingness is legally binding 100 things the rihanna album's better than further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled