can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × lawn & garden please eat the dandelions: 9 edible garden weeds design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows driving sustainability mainstream design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement living lawn & garden please eat the dandelions: 9 edible garden weeds derek markham derekmarkham may 16, 2019 cc by 2.0 cristian v./flickr instead of trying to get rid of those lawn and garden weeds, harvest them for free homegrown meals. all too often, homeowners and gardeners wage war in their lawns and gardens against the plants that grow incredibly well there, but that aren't intentionally planted. and many times, the justification for these battles all comes down to the words we use to describe them. when we buy and plant packets of common flower, vegetable, or herb seeds, we spend a lot of time, energy, and water in our efforts to get those seeds to germinate and grow, and take pride in our green thumb and homegrown food supply. but when a plant that we identify as being a weed is found growing in our lawn or garden, out comes the trowel and hoe (or for the ruthless and impatient gardeners, weedkillers such as roundup), and we may spend the entire growing season keeping these opportunistic and resilient plants at bay, in order to have neat and tidy garden beds and uniform lawns. and it's too bad, really, as many of the common garden weeds are not only edible and nutritious, but can be a great homegrown (and free) addition to our meals. part of the resistance to eating plants that we believe to be weeds, in my opinion, is that we are conditioned to only consider the items we find in the grocery store as food, and not things that the rest of the neighborhood sees as unwelcome invaders in lawns and gardens. and unless we've been exposed to eating plants that are seen as common garden weeds, and had them prepared for us, we're probably not likely to try to eat them on our own. once in a while, we might come across dandelion greens or purslane for sale in the produce section of the grocery store, or the farmers market, but for the most part, many common edible garden weeds aren't available anywhere else except for our lawns or garden beds. and that's a shame. although the edible weeds that you can find in your yard might be different ones than the ones i find in my yard, due to weather, soil conditions, and geography, here are some of the most common garden weeds that can be used for both meals and medicine: 1. dandelion the quintessential garden and lawn weed, dandelions have a bad reputation among those who want grass that looks as uniform as a golf course, but every part of this common edible weed is tasty both raw and cooked, from the roots to the blossoms. dandelion leaves can be harvested at any point in the growing season, and while the youngest leaves are considered to be less bitter and more palatable raw, the bigger leaves can be eaten as well, especially as an addition to a green salad. if raw dandelion leaves don't appeal to you, they can also be steamed or added to a stir-fry or soup, which can make them taste less bitter. the flowers are sweet and crunchy, and can be eaten raw, or breaded and fried, or even used to make dandelion syrup or wine. the root of the dandelion can be dried and roasted and used as a coffee substitute, or added to any recipe that calls for root vegetables. 2. purslane zoofari/cc by 3.0 purslane can often be found in moist garden beds, lawns, and shady areas, where it lies close to the ground and often goes unnoticed. this humble garden weed, however, is a nutritional powerhouse, and is outrageously rich in in omega-3 fatty acids and antioxidants. it can be a great addition to a salad or stir-fry, or used to thicken soups or stews. purslane is a succulent, with a crispy texture, and the leaves and stems can be eaten raw or cooked to add a peppery flavor to any dish. 3. clover cliff/cc by 3.0 other than the occasional four-leafed clover hunt, this common lawn weed goes mostly unnoticed, even though it is becoming popular as a lawn replacement altogether. clover is an important food for honeybees and bumblebees, and clover leaves and flowers can be used to add variety to human meals as well. small amounts of raw clover leaves can be chopped into salads, or can be sauteed and added to dishes for a green accent, and the flowers of both red and white clover can be eaten raw or cooked, or dried for tea. 4. lamb's quarters wendell smith/cc by 3.0 the young shoots and leaves of lamb's quarters (also known as goosefoot) can be eaten raw in any vegetable dish, or sauteed or steamed and used anywhere spinach is called for. the seeds of the lamb's quarters, which resemble quinoa, can also be harvested and eaten, although it takes a lot of patience to gather enough to make it worthwhile as a main dish. 5. plantain calin darabus/cc by 3.0 this common lawn weed (not to be confused with the tropical fruit also called plantain) is not only a great medicinal plant that can be used topically to soothe burns, stings, rashes, and wounds, but is also a great edible green for the table. the young leaves of plantain can be eaten raw, steamed, boiled, or sauteed, and while the older leaves can be a bit tough, they can also be cooked and eaten as well. the seeds of the plantain, which are produced on a distinctive flower spike, can be cooked like a grain or ground into a flour, and are related to the more well-known psyllium seeds, which are sold as a fiber supplement and natural laxative. note that this is a medicinal plant, so be careful with it. 6. chickweed leslie seaton/cc by 3.0 this rather unassuming garden weed can be harvested and used for both food and medicine. chickweed leaves, stems, and flowers can all be eaten either raw or cooked, where it adds a delicate spinach-like taste to any dish. the plant can also be used as a topical poultice for minor cuts, burns, or rashes, and can be made into a tea for use as a mild diuretic. 7. mallow pawpaw67/cc by 3.0 mallow, or malva, is also known as cheeseweed, due to the shape of its seed pods, and can be found in many lawns or garden beds across the us. the leaves and the seed pods (also called the 'fruit') are both edible, either raw or cooked, and like many greens, are often more tender and palatable when smaller and less mature. the older leaves can be used like any other cooked green after steaming, boiling, or sauteing them. 8. wild amaranth united soybean board/cc by 3.0 the leaves of the wild amaranth, also known as pigweed, are another great addition to any dish that calls for leafy greens, and while the younger leaves are softer and tastier, the older leaves can also be cooked like spinach. the seeds of the wild amaranth can be gathered and cooked just like store-bought amaranth, either as a cooked whole grain or as a ground meal, and while it does take a bit of time to gather enough to add to a meal, they can be a a good source of free protein. 9. curly dock michael gras/cc by 3.0 curly dock (also called yellow dock) leaves can be eaten raw when young, or cooked when older, and added to salads or soups. the stems of the dock plant can be peeled and eaten either cooked or raw, and the mature seeds can be boiled, or eaten raw, or roasted to make a coffee substitute. dock leaves are rather tart, and because of their high oxalic acid content, it's often recommended to only eat them in moderation, as well as to change the water several times during cooking. remember to steer clear of eating plants foraged from near roads; they may be tainted with pollutants. also do not eat plants that have been treated with garden chemicals. [disclaimer: this is not meant as a field guide, so before you start eating the weeds out of your lawn or garden, be sure that you've positively identified them as an edible plant, and know how to prepare them. unless you know for sure, steer clear of plants that grow outside your yard, in places where they may be sprayed or treated, or in places that neighborhood dogs and cats use to do their business.] this updated article was originally published in 2014. fruits & vegetables gardening please eat the dandelions: 9 edible garden weeds instead of trying to get rid of those lawn and garden weeds, harvest them for free homegrown meals. related content on treehugger.com 42 flowers you can eat 6 homemade herbicides: kill the weeds without killing the earth 6 edible ground cover plants for backyards and gardens could we grow all the food we need in our yards? facebook twitter pinterest please enable javascript to view the comments. most popular right now common household products that can kill the coronavirus what does a gender-neutral city look like? the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' laundry in a time of covid-19 what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes what to plant 12 groups of companion plants to make your vegetable garden thrive 32 companion plants to grow with your peppers 6 easy culinary herbs to grow from seed 12 companion plants to grow alongside your tomatoes don't bug out 7 reasons mosquitoes bite some people more than others how to help get rid of ticks on your property cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes why wasps attack and how to avoid them about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved