contact us: +1 855-777-3680 plesk partner program preview releases blog contact us my plesk solutions by role developers content managers digital agencies it admins web hosters hyperscalers by edition web admin edition web pro edition web host edition business & collaboration wordpress edition by cloud amazon web services microsoft azure alibaba cloud gcp marketplace vultr digitalocean linode partner program exclusive discounts, benefits and exposure to take your business to the next level become a partner product explore features everyone admins & web hosters developers designers & agencies plesk features key topics wordpress toolkit seo toolkit joomla! toolkit aws toolkit plesk email security feature packs business & collaboration wordpress pack hosting pack power pack language pack featured extension smart updates for wordpress toolkit pricing extensions help center more careers events webinars plesk university blog plesk partner program contact us try for free solutions by role developers content managers digital agencies it admins web hosters hyperscalers by edition web admin edition web pro edition web host edition business & collaboration wordpress edition by cloud amazon web services microsoft azure alibaba cloud gcp marketplace vultr digitalocean linode partner program partner program product explore features everyone admins & web hosters developers designers & agencies plesk features key topics wordpress toolkit seo toolkit joomla! toolkit aws toolkit plesk email security feature packs business & collaboration wordpress pack hosting pack power pack language pack featured extension extension pricing extensions help center more careers events webinars plesk university blog plesk partner program contact us try for free pricing core plesk features to grow your business and projects 1 server (8% off) 3 servers (12% off) *price per server vps dedicated monthly yearly web admin edition vps dedicated $10/mo $7.33/mo built for website and server administration 10 domains wordpress toolkit se developer pack subscription management account management reseller management buy monthly buy annually buy monthly buy annually web pro edition vps $15/mo $11/mo dedicated $15/mo $11/mo complete solution for web developers and designers 30 domains wordpress toolkit developer pack subscription management account management reseller management buy monthly buy annually buy monthly buy annually web host edition vps $25/mo $18.33/mo dedicated $45/mo $33/mo build and grow your hosting business on plesk unlimited domains wordpress toolkit developer pack subscription management account management reseller management buy monthly buy annually buy monthly buy annually partners customized build and grow your hosting business on plesk see benefits not sure which plesk edition you need? see comparison chart enhance plesk with our extensions ecosystem acronis backup smart updates imunifyav speed kit learn more no server? get plesk on our hyperscaler partners frequently asked questions how do i test or trial plesk? we offer a completely free and fully functional 2 weeks trial here. no credit card required. how is plesk licensed? plesk is a per server license, with pricing options for virtual or physical servers, also know as vps (virtual private servers) or dedicated servers. in addition plesk offers multiple editions that are all licensed by a number of domains per such server. is my license renewed automatically at the end of the billing period? all licenses purchased in our online store have automatic renewal enabled by default. a renewal order will be created and paid automatically at the end of your billing period (monthly or yearly, depending on the type of license you purchased). the license will be renewed shortly after the renewal order is processed and paid. what´s the best way to pay for my online store order? we accept all major credit cards and paypal. do i need to pay vat? all our prices are vat exclusive. depending on your country of residence and options to add your own vat id, vat is being added to your order. what´s the commitment? with plesk there is no agreement to sign and you can upgrade or downgrade between different editions at any time. in case you want to go big with plesk, you can also check out our options to become a hosting partner to resell and/or use plesk for larger installations and platforms. if you are an agency, a cloud or hosting provider or even indepedent developer or designer – plesk can help you growing your business faster. we offer strong discounts between 15 and 45% on our retail licenses. the minimum commitment starts at 250$/month and includes a premium support sla, a dedicated account manager and access to many partner-only resources. visit our plesk partner program page for more details. does plesk offer hosting services? no, we do not. you’ll need get your own server/hosting service from one of our partners, or quickly spin up a virtual server on either one of the leading cloud hyperscalers (aws, google cloud, microsoft azure or alibaba cloud). does plesk run on my computer? plesk is a software made for servers that run in the cloud or any other remote datacenter or hosting company of your choice. plesk can be accessed through any industry standard browser on your desktop or any mobile device, but it requires prior installation on a server. we strongly recommend to first check out our hardware and software requirements, so you can install it on your server quickly. what´s the difference between a vps and a dedicated license? with plesk, you don’t have to worry about server management anymore, as most of it is automated through plesk from all aspects. using a vps with plesk, you have everything convered from building a professional website, security on all levels and even operations such as staging/production for wordpress or automated backups. consider plesk to be your tool to “automanage” your server and help you focusing building great websites and applications. and if required, scale big on larger machines, also for medium and large scale website and app projects. in addition, plesk’s support for modern tools like docker, nodejs or git enables you to run it all on plesk – and never think about server management again. do you offer non-profit and educational discounts? we absolutely do – we love to support non-profits and academic institutions. if you’re eligible and interested, contact us so we can make sure you get the right solution in place. need more help? download plesk onyx licensing guide check sus for your license license number: check sus contact sales be the first to get our latest insights, updates and news name* email* yes, please, i agree to receiving my personal plesk newsletter! plesk international gmbh and its affiliates may store and process the data i provide for the purpose of delivering the newsletter according to the plesk privacy policy. in order to tailor its offerings to me, plesk may further use additional information like usage and behavior data (profiling). i can unsubscribe from the newsletter at any time by sending an email to [email protected] or use the unsubscribe link in any of the newsletters. captcha industry partners industry partners control panel follow us: company about plesk our brand legal privacy policy careers impressum product pricing extensions knowledge base documentation help center migrate to plesk contact us hosting wiki plesk lifecycle policy programs content program partner program community blog forums plesk university © 2019 plesk international gmbh. all rights reserved. plesk and the plesk logo are trademarks of plesk international gmbh. contact us we're not around right now. but you can send us an email and we'll get back to you, asap. i consent to plesk collecting my details through this form. send start typing and press enter to search x