skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events plugins gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup justin tadlock · march 26, 2020 · 9 comments version 7.8 of the gutenberg plugin landed yesterday. the team continues to improve the editor with the refreshed interface work … continue reading gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup → build custom templates with the mb views add-on for meta box justin tadlock · march 18, 2020 · 1 comment meta box released its mb views add-on plugin last week. the new extension allows developers to build custom templates from … continue reading build custom templates with the mb views add-on for meta box → the wacky world of sorta brilliant’s sorta fun block plugins justin tadlock · march 12, 2020 · 7 comments you could say that i am a bit of a fanboy of the late 1990s and early 2000s web. i loved the funkiness of geocities. woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience justin tadlock · march 11, 2020 · 16 comments yesterday, automattic launched version 4.0 of its woocommerce plugin. except for the new admin interface, which has been in testing … continue reading woocommerce 4.0 lands with new admin interface and updated onboarding experience → convert classic content to blocks with the bulk block converter plugin justin tadlock · february 7, 2020 · 14 comments organic themes released the bulk block converter wordpress plugin last month and updated it in the past week. the plugin … continue reading convert classic content to blocks with the bulk block converter plugin → guteblock joins the block collection plugin arena with an initial 12 custom blocks justin tadlock · february 4, 2020 · 3 comments last week, london-based digital marketing agency sweans technologies released guteblock, its new block collection plugin. currently, the plugin boasts 12 … continue reading guteblock joins the block collection plugin arena with an initial 12 custom blocks → emoji conbini and the case for a block enhancements directory justin tadlock · january 28, 2020 · 1 comment in december of 2019, nick hamze, the owner of sorta brilliant, quietly launched block garden with a proposal for plugin … continue reading emoji conbini and the case for a block enhancements directory → swift control replaces wordpress toolbar with custom access panel justin tadlock · january 27, 2020 · 7 comments david vongries, creator of the page builder framework theme, launched the swift control plugin last week. the plugin is billed … continue reading swift control replaces wordpress toolbar with custom access panel → 10up releases autoshare for twitter wordpress plugin justin tadlock · january 24, 2020 · 4 comments on tuesday, 10up released its autoshare for twitter plugin. the plugin is designed to automatically tweet blog posts as they … continue reading 10up releases autoshare for twitter wordpress plugin → slim seo keeps options simple and handles the legwork of seo justin tadlock · december 16, 2019 · 12 comments i have been running a blog of some kind since the spring of 2003. in a few short months, it … continue reading slim seo keeps options simple and handles the legwork of seo → inserting special characters into the block editor justin tadlock · december 13, 2019 · 7 comments for users of the classic wordpress editor who often needed to insert special characters into their posts, life was once … continue reading inserting special characters into the block editor → posts navigation 1 2 … 94 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram