home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » plumbing plumbing fixes you can complete january 19, 2018 brittany bailey 11 comments 11 plumbing fixes you can complete when i tell people that there are few reasons to call a plumber, they are usually doubtful. today i want to show you 11 plumbing fixes you can complete on your own! whether you have a leaky faucet, a slow drain, or a malfunctioning toilet … [read more...] plumbing perfect showerhead for a small shower july 24, 2017 brittany bailey 11 comments perfect shower head for a small shower raise your hand if you have a small shower. have you ever struggled to find the perfect shower head for your tiny shower? i feel your pain. recently i had to replace a worn out shower head in our bathroom and i struggled to find the perfect … [read more...] plumbing the app that saved my butt – diyz app review october 31, 2016 brittany bailey 15 comments just the other week we had a situation in the handy household. it was a recurring issue and was bound to get out of control resulting in a big mess sooner or later. fortunately, the situation happened while handsome guy was traveling so i had a few days to try to resolve the … [read more...] plumbing, product review how energy efficient is your water heater? november 23, 2015 brittany bailey 8 comments let's talk more about energy efficiency today. did you know that your water heater can be one of the biggest energy hogs? it's true! that conventional storage tank water heater works all day to keep your water hot. if the thermostat senses the temperature dip below the set … [read more...] energy conservation, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, plumbing protect pipes from freezing october 30, 2015 brittany bailey 8 comments in the same vein as monday's post about adding insulation, let's continue preparing for winter. while you are under the house looking at insulation, take notice of your water pipes. are they insulated too? if not, it's important to protect your water pipes with foam insulation to … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, plumbing, repair replacing a sink drain march 20, 2015 brittany bailey 11 comments have you ever needed to know how to replace a sink drain? or maybe in the past you hired a plumber. well, i'm here today to tell you that it's not a hard project and i know you can do it! i think the plumbing gods smiled down on me recently. after the little leak that turned … [read more...] pliers, plumbing, sink fixing a leaky faucet – take 2 january 19, 2015 brittany bailey 8 comments remember last week when i was showing you how to fix a leaky faucet in 10 minutes? well, sometimes a fix doesn't always solve the problem. this is not unusual in home repairs. it doesn't mean you did it wrong or it's time to call a plumber. it just means you have to look further … [read more...] fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing, repair fix a leaky faucet in 10 minutes january 12, 2015 brittany bailey 15 comments drip, drip, drip! is that leaky faucet keeping you up at night? i have a 10 minute fix that will bring you sweet dreams and a lower water bill. oftentimes the washers in faucets wear out after continuous use. replacing them is actually easy and will only take about ten … [read more...] fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing, repair day 30 – seal gaps around pipes october 30, 2014 brittany bailey 11 comments do you have an open door policy for drafts and bugs? of course not! wait... you might and not know it. have you looked under your sinks around the water pipes? if you have gaps around the pipes, you have the welcome sign up for cold air and bugs. take a few minutes to seal … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, energy conservation, fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing day 14 – non-toxic drain opener october 14, 2014 brittany bailey 4 comments a clogged tub or sink is an inevitable situation for any homeowner. before you reach for the toxic drain cleaner, try this easy and inexpensive non-toxic drain opener. all you need is a box of baking soda and cheap white vinegar. day 14: non-toxic drain opener remove … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, cleaning, fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing day 12 – protecting spigots from frozen burst pipes october 12, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments winter is coming and this year i want to help you protect your home from a burst pipe because it froze. much like your water pipes (which should have foam insulation sleeves on them,) it's important to protect your spigot on the outside of your house from … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, fix it, home & auto maintenance, plumbing, weatherstripping day 9 – replace water lines with braided metal hoses october 9, 2014 brittany bailey 8 comments welcome to day 9 of my 31 days of handy home fixes. would you believe that a burst water line can cause tens of thousands of dollars worth of damage to your home? it's true! if one of your water supply lines is not braided metal, you could be putting your home in danger of a … [read more...] 31 days of handy home fixes, bathroom, fix it, home & auto maintenance, kitchen, laundry room, plumbing how to easily install a new shower head march 21, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments raise your hand if you have a sad excuse for a shower head! is it drippy, rusty or clogged? if you answered yes to any of those questions, i'm about to show you why there is no excuse for you being able to install a new shower head yourself! it's super … [read more...] bathroom, diy, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, pliers, plumbing, repair, tutorial plumb crazy over these christmas ornaments (from plumbing parts) #lowescreator november 28, 2012 brittany bailey 28 comments you must think i have plumbing on the brain. after all our leaks, i've spent some time in the plumbing aisle. while there i came across these three things: they are beautiful, don't you think?! can't you see them hanging from your christmas tree or on your door? what? … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, decor, decorating, gifts, holiday decorating, lowe's creative idea, plumbing how to repair a leaky shower or tub faucet november 26, 2012 brittany bailey 52 comments you know that saying, when it rains it pours? that statement has become an actuality in our home. while we are trying to build back from the plumbing leak, one of our tub faucets developed a leak. when i tried to tighten the handles to stop the dripping, this is what … [read more...] diy, do it yourself, home & auto maintenance, plumbing i’m going to rock your world (while mine is upended) october 14, 2012 brittany bailey 20 comments thank you all for your comments about my post on polybutylene pipes. since that post my life has been squished into a duffle bag and rolled down a big hill. i'm not sure whether we are coming or going. on wednesday night we all slept in the house, but we were getting … [read more...] giveaway, plumbing 1 2 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok