new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search podcasts episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery march 1, 2020 umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss her bakery located in the west village that is expanding to new locations in new york city and the washington d.c. metro area. mah-ze-dahr prides itself on the quality of its baked goods, its sustainable approach to food, and its commitment […] more how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur february 1, 2020 laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur, step back onto the new york launch pod to discuss their company’s exponential growth and success in the self-care industry. back in episode 49, we learned how fur is changing the conversation around body hair care and meeting the needs of men and women who want all-natural […] more episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo january 1, 2020 lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their custom neon design studio that lets customers commission unique artwork for every special moment in their lives while also providing pre-made artisan items for sale. lena and sas didn’t set out to start a business that […] more episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good december 1, 2019 matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his delicious new salsa company that’s spicing up the market with fresh tasting homemade recipes and sleek modern designs. matt founded the company with the insight that the $1.3 billion dollar salsa industry has remained largely unchanged, even […] more episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch november 1, 2019 lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch, steps onto the new york launch pod to discuss his boiler based technology company which is helping building owners save 20-30% on their fuel costs, reducing the city’s carbon footprint and making apartments more comfortable too! heat watch works by monitoring and calibrating boilers to make sure they’re being […] more episode 59: heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames october 1, 2019 heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their revolutionary eyeglass company that promises to make shopping for glasses fun and headache free for kids and adults. despite recent innovations, eyeglasses have been manufactured the same way for years. and while standardized styles and […] more episode 58: aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa september 1, 2019 aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their luxury handbag company, which sells accessories for the modern woman. caraa blends quality design with functionality to create bags that look good while still meeting the needs of an active lifestyle. originally designed as the all […] more how you doin’? vol 6: brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon august 15, 2019 brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon, steps back on to the new york launch pod to discuss his company’s continued growth and success. back in episode 33, we learned how mack weldon’s focus on unique fabrics, customer satisfaction, and innovative styles revolutionized the men’s essentials category. since then, mack weldon has added several new clothing […] more episode 57: carrie o’brien and craig o’brien, co-founders of sunswell august 1, 2019 carrie o’brien and craig o’brien the husband and wife and co-founders of sunswell, step onto the new york launch pod to discuss their hamptons-inspired clothing brand, that offers items designed to look good anywhere and keep you cool at the same time. sunswell’s high quality performance fabrics and classic designs can be worn anywhere from […] more episode 56: hannah weitzer and alli finn, co-founders of seachange collective august 1, 2019 social justice has become something of a buzzword lately with topics including diversity, equality, and fair representation at the forefront of people’s minds. however, many businesses, nonprofits, and government agencies don’t always have the time or abilities to confront these issues head on. that’s where seachange collective comes in. seachange collective is a women-led and […] more 1 2 3 4 5 >» 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top