skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more all you need to know about podcasting – the #1 way to increase your impact let's make a podcast that works for you! with the power of your voice, you can build an audience, make an impact, generate more business, and have fun doing it, too. podcasting has become the #1 content platform in the world why? because of the tools we now have, and how podcast listeners behave. the first podcast came out in 2004 back when you had to know how to code and it wasn't easy to get an audience to find your podcast or even subscribe to it. now, everyone seems to be starting a podcast, and if you haven't gotten involved yet, now would be the time. podcast listeners are different than people who read blog posts or watch videos. when you think about it, you can listen to a podcast on the go while in the car, on a walk or in an airplane. i listen while doing the dishes and getting a workout in. there are no distractions like pop-ups, flashy in-your-face ads or related videos to click on while you listen to a podcast. podcasts are sort of like a conversation between the listener and the host, and perhaps a guest or two as well. it is, as i once heard: …the best way to scale intimacy.” and it's true. when i meet listeners and fans of my podcasts, smart passive income and askpat, they talk as if we've been friends for a long time, even though we had just met. and when it comes to growing my business, it doesn't even feel like selling because what i recommend is just a natural extension to the relationship that was built between myself and my listeners on the other end. download the podcast cheat sheet a start to launch checklist to get your podcast up and running, fast! get instant access the essential free checklist for planning and starting your podcast the podcast cheat sheet includes a highly detailed checklist that walks you through the technical setup of your podcast. success! now check your email to confirm your subscription. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address subscribe what to expect after you request the podcast cheat sheet, you'll receive an email with the download, as well as a link to my free, on-demand webinar that will walk you through the cheat sheet. together, we'll cover: how a podcast will help you grow (or launch) your business. how to use the cheat sheet to keep track of your entire launch process. what you need to make your podcast pass the itunes guidelines and tips for getting it to stand out in the crowd. resources for getting help if you get stuck. furthermore, the podcast becomes an amazing way for you to connect with leaders in your niche. some of my students start a podcast just for this reason alone! it's how i've been able to have conversations with people like gary vaynerchuk and tim ferriss on my show. again, it was because of the podcast. and probably the most impressive aspect of a podcast is just how long people are listening. it's not like a video or blog post which may earn 5-10 minutes of a persons time (on the high end). rather, listeners are consuming podcasts for potentially hours at a time, depending on the shows they listen to. your voice and your message in front of your target audience for that long – only amazing things can happen after that, and i promise amazing opportunities will come to you once you commit to starting your podcast. which is why i'm thankful that you're here, because i'm going to help you get started and really make it happen. check out the resources below: free step by step tutorial the #1 guide on the internet to help you start your podcast podcasting how to start a podcast in 2020: the complete podcasting tutorial starting a podcast has been one of the best decisions i've ever made, but more on that later. in this… 0 chapters start here articles tutorials and case studies these articles, tutorials, and case studies will help you create, launch, and market your online course. view all articles on podcasting the boom (or bubble) of podcasting? is this the boom or bubble of podcasting? is podcasting the new blogging? explore why podcasts are a big deal, podcast tips, podcast sponsorships, and more! 10 podcasters who grew their business on top of their show in this post, ten podcasters who grew their business on top of their show share how they did it, from podcast roi to podcast kickstarters and more! what you need to know to launch a successful podcast—updated! are you ready to start your podcast? in this post, i guide you through the process of planning your podcast launch, so that you can make the biggest splash possible on your launch week. top 10 podcast recording tips to sound like a podcasting pro—updated! podcasting is one of the most powerful ways to build your brand and audience. here are my top 10 recording tips for producing professional, engaging episodes that will keep your listeners coming back for more. top 10 tips for conducting an exceptional interview—updated! conducting a good interview is a great skill to have as an entrepreneur—for your website, for your blog, for your podcast, and so much more. find out why! top 10 tips for brand new podcasters starting your podcast is easier than you think. here's how to push past the fear and get your podcast started now! courses my best selling podcast courses whether you're just starting out, or you've already started podcasting, choose a course below to help you grow your audience and increase your impact and influence online. thousands of students have already joined, and we'd love to serve you, too! view all courses power-up podcasting create, launch and market a podcast that grows your income and impact online. step-by-step setup, and how to get found, too (even on launch day). thousands of students have enjoyed this course. now it's your turn! $799 by pat flynn learn more amp'd up podcasting automate, market, & profit so you can get time back, grow your listenership, & earn more $999 by pat flynn learn more recommended podcast host buzzsprout you want a podcast host that's easy to use, beautifully designed, and has a team that you know has your back. i recommend buzzsprout because of all those reasons and more. plus, if you use the link below, you'll get a special spi deal that adds more time to your plan. you can even try it for free! click for a special deal podcasts podcast episodes about podcasting listen in to hear the best of spi’s success stories, case studies, and advice for creating successful podcasts smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads july 19, 2017 spi 275: real stories and results from 3 brand-new podcasters march 20, 2019 spi 363: dear podcasters october 30, 2019 spi 395: podcasting in 2020 – what you need to know january 4, 2017 spi 247: the epic origin story behind the walker stalkers brand june 3, 2015 spi 164: michael o'neal from solopreneur hour talk shop—his success journey and actionable tips for interviews more episodes askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads may 25, 2015 ap 0350: how did you first make money with your podcast? march 12, 2015 ap 0298: how do i promote my products during my podcast? january 15, 2015 ap 0258: how did you learn to sound natural on the microphone? september 26, 2019 ap 1087: how can i increase my audience engagement with a podcast? september 28, 2017 ap 0963: how do i increase my podcast download numbers? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less