content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search podcast statistics for 2020 – charts and data authors: jay baer jay baer is the founder of convince & convert, a hall of fame keynote speaker and emcee, host of the award-winning social pros podcast, and the author of six books including talk triggers: the complete guide to creating customers with word of mouth. view all posts follow jaybaer posted under: content marketing podcast awareness and listening continue to rise in the united states, driven by an explosion in new podcast programming, and consumer adoption of “smart speakers” like amazon echo and google home devices. 2020 podcast statistics from edison research and triton digital were recently released as part of the annual study: the infinite dial. this study is now in its 22nd year and is widely regarded as the finest research on audio habits and podcasting available anywhere. i strongly encourage you to download the entire study (no cost) as it contains substantially more insights than i’ve summarized here. note that this research surveyed americans 12 years of age and older. 75% of americans are now familiar with podcasting this is approximately 212 million people and an increase of more than 10 million in one year. 55% of americans have listened to a podcast this is up from 51% in 2019 and indicates that roughly three-quarters of the people who are familiar with podcasts have actually listened to one. podcast listeners have grown 37.5% in 3 years in 2017, 40% of americans 12 or older had listened to a podcast, compared to 55% in 2020. % of americans who have ever listened to a podcast: 2017-2020 in 2017, 40% of americans 12 or older had listened to a podcast, compared to 55% in 2020. click to tweet 37% of americans listen to podcasts monthly in 2020, for the first time, more than 100 million americans listen to at least one podcast each month. monthly podcast listeners have grown 54% in 3 years in 2017, 24% of americans 12 or older listened to podcasts monthly, compared to 37% in 2020. % of americans who listen to podcasts monthly: 2017-2020 half of americans ages 12-34 listen to podcasts monthly as of 2020, 49% of all americans, 12-34, listen to at least one podcast per month, compared to 42% in 2019. as of 2020, 49% of all americans, 12-34, listen to at least one podcast per month, compared to 42% in 2019. click to tweet monthly podcast listening growing fastest among older americans from 2019 to 2020, the percentage of americans ages 55+ who listen to podcasts monthly increased by 29%. at present, nearly one-quarter of all 55+ consumers in the united states are listening to podcasts month. each week, more americans listen to podcasts than go to church in 2020, for the first time, a larger percentage of american consumers listened to podcasts weekly than attended church or religious services weekly: 24% to 23%. 68 million americans are weekly podcast listeners. in 2020, for the first time, a larger percentage of american consumers listened to podcasts weekly than attended church or religious services weekly: 24% to 23%. 68 million americans are weekly podcast listeners. click to tweet podcasting’s share of time continues to grow among americans who listen to podcasts at least weekly, the average amount of time spent per week listening grew in 2020 to 6 hours, 39 minutes. weekly podcast listeners tune in an average of 6 podcasts per week on average, podcast fans listen to 6 podcasts during the course of a week. this average is skewed somewhat, however, by hard-core podcast devotees. 51% of weekly podcast listeners consume 1-3 podcasts per week, but 12% listen to 11 or more podcasts! number of podcasts listened to per week (among weekly podcast listeners in america, 2020) 76 million americans now have “smart speakers” in their homes led by amazon, growth in smart speaker ownership has been significant. 21% of americans own amazon echo (alexa) device, as of 2020. and smart speaker ownership overall increased by 17% between 2019 and 2020. this increase in smart speakers is giving owners more opportunities to listen to podcasts at home. podcast listening is continuing to soar. these 2020 podcast statistics demonstrated that we are not yet at “peak podcast”, at least in terms of consumption. please do download all of the infinite dial from edison research and triton digital, as there are many more statistics and charts worth your attention. for 2019 podcast statistics, see our post, the critical podcast statistics of 2019. while you're here get our complete content marketing bundle: the very best content marketing resources, all in one place. article continues while you're here other top articles content marketing 4 higher education content marketing examples that any school can implement zontee hou social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 lauren teague content marketing, greatest hits how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) anna hrach and jamie griffiths article continues who have we helped? who have we helped? we work to double your digital and we've done that for some of the best companies in the world. find out how we have helped organizations from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands. find out more what great brands do that good brands don't in content marketing okay content is easy. killer content is hard. this nifty ebook shows you the difference, based on our real-world work with dozens of brands. a must-read! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept