skip to content resources podcast portfolio blog about contact menu resources podcast portfolio blog about contact i like your picture podcast with william and lee beem weekly episodes to help photographers become better visual storytellers. subscribe apple podcasts google podcasts spotify stitcher blubrry menu apple podcasts google podcasts spotify stitcher blubrry recent episodes 4 common photography obstacles march 25, 2020 no comments what's keeping you from taking the photos you want to take? we gave it some thought and came up with a list of four common photography obstacles for this episode of i like your picture. read more » create an unexpected composition march 18, 2020 no comments what does it mean to create an unexpected composition? i guess that depends upon your own definition of the ultimate goal of photography. are we here merely to document a person, place or thing? that's read more » lightroom classic workflow to develop your photos march 11, 2020 no comments i wanted to share this lightroom classic workflow to help you develop your photos in a way that provides the best results and saves you time. a lot of people tend to use the develop read more » how to use rhythm and proportion in photography march 4, 2020 no comments using proportion in photography is an important concept to grasp. sometimes people use distorted proportion for humorous or comic effect. however, you don't want to accidentally use it when you're trying to show a person read more » how to use texture in your photography february 26, 2020 no comments we can use texture in our photos to engage the people viewing them. think about it for a moment. when you see something with texture, you imagine how it feels. even if only for a read more » why it's so important to have contrast in photography february 19, 2020 no comments when you think of contrast in photography, you most likely think of tonal contrast – the difference between dark tones and light tones. perhaps that's because it's one of the easiest types of contrast to read more » pin share share tweet 0 shares copyright © 2020 william beem free resources lightroom portrait brushes visual stories ebook lightroom classic performance hacks ebook creative portraits ebook navigation resources podcast portfolio blog about policies terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact menu terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact