squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice online stores point of sale sell in person squarespace makes it easy to keep your inventory and customer data in sync, whether you sell online or in person with point of sale in the squarespace commerce app. watch the video accept in-person payments with square hardware we’ve partnered with square so you can accept credit cards, mobile payments, and even cash. simply connect your square account and pair a reader to start selling. keep inventory and customers in sync simplify inventory management by tracking it all in one place. easily make in-person sales and automatically keep your inventory, customers and sales analytics in sync with your online store. connect with your customers create lasting and valuable relationships with your customers. offer in-person discounts make more sales by offering customers a deal when they check out. grow your mailing list sign up customers to receive emails about promotions or your next in-person event. a beautifully designed experience our commerce app is designed for speed and efficiency. your products are displayed beautifully so you can spend less time managing your business and more time interacting with customers. download the squarespace commerce app manage your entire business from your phone. scan shipping labels, fulfill orders, track product inventory and contact customers from your mobile device. “comparing this pos to others i’ve used, i really liked the large image displays. i can easily pick the items i need, and i don’t need to read titles as much.” mallorie terranova, founder jarsofdust.com frequently asked questions what can i do with point of sale? point of sale (pos) allows you to sell your products in person with the squarespace commerce app. your squarespace inventory is beautifully displayed in the app, and it automatically stays in sync with your online store when you make a sale. how much does it cost? point of sale is available with a commerce basic or commerce advanced plan and you take payments at the standard rate charged by the payment processor, square. squarespace does not charge any additional transaction fees. which payment processors work with pos? our pos works with square. simply connect a square account and pair a reader to start accepting in-person payments. for online sales, you can also connect stripe and paypal to your store to accept payments on the web. how do i get started? to get started, download the latest version of the squarespace commerce ios app. making in-person sales with pos requires a squarespace store and a square account and reader. where can i use pos? pos is currently supported in the squarespace commerce app for iphone and is available in the united states. ipad and android support is coming soon. where can i learn more? for more information, check out our detailed pos support page. squarespace is the all‑in‑one platform to build a beautiful website. start a free trial →→ squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter