u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition politics george conway u.s. news donald trump kamala harris cnn single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill kentucky republican rep. thomas massie thinks social distancing is “oppression” and is worried about an expedited vote on the coronavirus relief bill. by arthur delaney , daniel marans , travis waldron, and tara golshan new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected the state's plea for ventilators. by sebastian murdock 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue president donald trump said he wants businesses open by easter. medical professionals say otherwise. by sebastian murdock trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died npr station stops airing trump coronavirus briefings for 'false information' seth meyers challenges trump to risky game to prove coronavirus conspiracy theory 18 underrated pantry items to buy at the grocery store joann fabrics employees are not paid enough to work through this pandemic fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone “they are human beings," he said after the treasury secretary called unemployment numbers "not relevant." by lee moran donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad the president's son posted the clip even as the u.s. became the country with the highest number of confirmed cases in the world. by lee moran newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies amid a crisis that demands trustworthy leadership, the president has instead sowed chaos, confusion and misinformation. by ryan grenoble trump rejects new york’s plea for ventilators: ‘i don’t believe you need’ that many “i have a feeling," the president told fox news as the coronavirus continues to spread around the country. by nick visser and marina fang trump goes full ‘shock doctrine’ as pandemic rages the administration is pushing its pro-polluter agenda as the u.s. death toll from covid-19 rises. by alexander c. kaufman and chris d'angelo british prime minister boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus u.k. health secretary matt hancock has also tested positive. both leaders said they have mild symptoms. by lee moran anthony fauci hits younger people with a stark coronavirus reality check the infectious diseases expert dispelled a key myth about the covid-19 infections. by ed mazza michigan's gretchen whitmer fires back after trump slams 'young woman governor' he probably won't forget her name now. by ed mazza l.a. mayor eric garcetti has a grim prediction of what coronavirus will do next the mayor revealed the projections that he said are keeping him awake at night. by ed mazza tiny east coast island untouched by covid-19 scrambles to keep it that way tourism fuels the economy of block island, rhode island, but residents worry visitors seeking refuge from the pandemic could strain the town's limited resources. by hayley miller disaster expert slams trump’s ‘preposterous’ coronavirus claim dr. irwin redlener, director of columbia university's national center for disaster preparedness, ripped trump's mixed messages as "based on ignorance." by lee moran coronavirus is a defining test and american government is failing it it's not just trump. our politics are unfit for this calamity. by zach carter cnn airs long list of trump’s most troubling coronavirus claims “all of his words are making things worse," editor-at-large chris cillizza said. by lee moran even donald trump is slamming gop lawmaker delaying coronavirus bill republicans and democrats are condemning rep. thomas massie for insisting legislators vote in person instead of holding a "voice vote." by david moye trump official says there’s no shortage of ventilators. reports say otherwise. dr. deborah birx, the white house's coronavirus taskforce coordinator, downplayed the need for ventilators while er doctors express more concern. by carla herreria russo the u.s. military hasn’t faced a threat like coronavirus for a century troops say commanders aren't taking the pandemic seriously, and a former army epidemiologist says the military has "done a poor job" responding to the crisis. by christopher mathias fauci says trump’s call for country to open up by easter is ‘aspirational’ the doctor said the president was trying to "give people some hope" amid the ongoing coronavirus pandemic but added that now is no time to "pull back." by nick visser newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.