skip to main content politico magazine the agenda pro search search sections the agenda magazine congress white house video podcasts 2020 elections news election results delegate tracker forecast endorsements issues polls money newsletters playbook playbook pm politico nightly: coronavirus special edition huddle all newsletters series the deciders what works women rule politico live live home upcoming events previous events about politico live columns & cartoons rich lowry jack shafer matt wuerker cartoon carousel policy agriculture cannabis cybersecurity defense education ehealth employment & immigration energy & environment finance & tax health care space technology trade transportation editions california canada china europe florida new jersey new york pro follow us twitter instagram facebook my account log inlog out watch live the white house holds a press briefing on coronavirus developments quick pops {{flagtext}} {{liveflag}} {{flagtext}} {{timeago}} {{flag}} {{icon}}{{headline}} trump authorizes dod, dhs to call up reservists to fight virus florida expands quarantine to visitors from louisiana california saw dense housing near transit as its future. what now? trudeau to washington: sending troops to border would be a mistake cuomo calls on trump to build field hospitals throughout the city environmental diplomacy slams on the brakes poll: majority approve of trump’s coronavirus response, but more americans say he was too slow to act state department foia work crippled by virus precautions de blasio: trump is 'not looking at the facts' of coronavirus crisis sanders: ‘it’s going to be a very steep road’ to beat biden judge orders release of 10 immigration detainees from n.j. jails virtual summit, real acrimony: eu leaders clash over ‘corona bonds’ top news coronavirus trump's push for risky malaria drugs disrupts coronavirus response “all this buzz is confusing the american public," said one senior health and human services official involved in drug policy. by sarah owermohle and dan diamond house passes $2 trillion coronavirus package — but not without last-minute drama by heather caygle and sarah ferris washington quietly prepares a bank rescue — just in case by zachary warmbrodt the next financial crisis: a collapse of the mortgage system by katy o'donnell gop governor breaks with trump: 'we're not going to be up and running by easter' by stephanie murray trump to announce next step in coronavirus battle by tuesday by anita kumar and caitlin oprysko trump allies fear a premature victory lap against coronavirus by gabby orr coronavirus 'gm was wasting time': trump invokes dpa to force gm to make ventilators the move to activate the defense production act came the same day that trump slammed gm on twitter. by gavin bade republican fundraiser looks to cash in on coronavirus a longtime campaign operative informed clients that he was leaving politics behind for a new line of work: selling critical medical supplies. by theodoric meyer and alex isenstadt a far-right rallying cry: older americans should volunteer to work older americans are key drivers of the country's faltering economy — and more at risk of dying from the coronavirus. by tina nguyen massie rejects trump's demand he be ousted from gop by betsy woodruff swan both parties pile on massie after effort to force recorded vote flops more top headlines 2020 elections inside joe biden’s bizarre coronavirus bunker nearly everything in his campaign has been turned upside down, from fundraising to how (or even whether) to attack trump. by ryan lizza scott gottlieb forecasts the next coronavirus outbreaks by dan diamond who got special deals in the stimulus and why they got them by caitlin emma, jennifer scholtes and theodoric meyer how the coronavirus is reshaping terrorists' attack plans by betsy woodruff swan why is congress still meeting in person? by nancy scola audio politico events coronavirus virtual briefings join politico for a series of virtual briefings and audio teleconferences to learn the latest updates on coronavirus and its impacts. mon. 9 a.m.: playbook tues. 12 p.m.: coronavirus special report visit magazine coronavirus ‘now, i’m unemployed’: how coronavirus killed off the capitol hill internship they thought they were getting their foot in the door for a career in politics. now, their internships have abruptly ended — and their ambitions are on hold. by jordan muller altitude trump is an authoritarian weakman coronavirus would be the perfect opportunity for an autocrat. trump isn’t taking it. by john f. harris opinion | fourth estate stop hating on the hoarders these hogs are mostly harmless and they might even be doing us a public service. by jack shafer the big idea what the coronavirus curve teaches us about climate change humans don’t easily grasp the concept of exponential growth, but it’s exactly why coronavirus has gotten so hard to manage—and why climate change could too. by howard kunreuther and paul slovic politics ‘have we learned nothing?’ the dems' christmas-tree bailout pitch isn’t going anywhere, but tells us a lot about what we might be headed for. by michael grunwald opinion joe biden, the cipher presidential candidate biden is winning the democratic nomination on the basis of not being bernie sanders and wants to get elected president on the basis of not being donald trump. by rich lowry opinion | history dept. where’s joe? what biden could learn from reagan about running in a crisis in 1980, ronald reagan promised resolve, didn’t go too far with criticism—and won. by monica prasad opinion | law and order i helped write the stock act. it didn’t go far enough. after the 2008 financial crisis, we tried to curb insider trading. the latest coronavirus controversy shows why members of congress shouldn’t be allowed to trade stock at all. by tyler gellasch trumpology trump turns a crisis into his new nightly tv show the president has turned the abandoned briefing room into a new stage and he’s making it must-see tv. by michael kruse pandemics close borders—and keep them closed it’s been true for centuries. and it’s unlikely to work in 2020. by charles kenny opinion | fourth estate restart the economy? let trump lead the way. if the president is serious about lifting coronavirus restrictions, he and his white house team can go first. by jack shafer opinion | primary source “i’m an er doc and i’m scared” with covid coming for her hospital, a virginia er doctor lays out what’s at stake in the national shortage of protective gear. by sandra simons previous slide next slide trackers how many coronavirus cases have been found in each u.s. state? using data from the covid tracking project, we’re following how each state is responding to covid-19. who's winning the delegate race? how close each candidate is to becoming the nominee who will go on to face donald trump. predicting the presidency senate predictions and key races house predictions and key races governor predictions and key races cartoon carousel the nation’s cartoonists on the week in politics by politico staff trump's white house trump team failed to follow nsc’s pandemic playbook the 69-page document, finished in 2016, provided a step by step list of priorities – which were then ignored by the administration. by dan diamond and nahal toosi immigration chief on thin ice for adopting obama’s stance during crisis by daniel lippman and anita kumar trumpworld unloads on gop ally as coronavirus attacks mount by alex isenstadt trump can’t decide whether to blame china for the coronavirus by anita kumar elections biden blindsides trump’s florida ally he singled out gov. ron desantis for harsh criticism over his coronavirus response. by marc caputo and matt dixon ‘he is still in’: bernie could remain in race through june by holly otterbein and david siders ‘bernie has a real decision to make’: labor throws in with biden by marc caputo dnc insists its convention is on — but many democrats aren't buying it by david siders and alex thompson republicans forging ahead with charlotte convention congress democrats delayed stimulus bill to tighten ban on trump family profiting democrats have tried to prevent trump from receiving taxpayer money at his businesses for three years. this week, they finally scored a small victory. by anita kumar how the $2 trillion deal came together — and nearly fell apart by john bresnahan, marianne levine and andrew desiderio senate approves massive $2 trillion coronavirus emergency package policy could obamacare save jobless americans from coronavirus? the law's backers say it will prove a crucial safety net during the pandemic. the trump administration may soon agree. by susannah luthi ‘this will be a wallop’: rural areas brace for hard economic hit by liz crampton and ryan mccrimmon coronavirus' economic toll: jobless claims soar to record high amid shutdowns why silicon valley's virus-era d.c. glow may not last by steven overly, leah nylen and gabby orr fears mount of a coronavirus-induced depression by ben white fed breaks the bank in bid to rescue economy the agenda: confronting coronavirus what it will take to protect the 2020 election by wendy weiser and lawrence norden one big idea for congress: pay small businesses to pay their workers by alan khazei and john bridgeland banks should defer household debt to protect the economy by ramin toloui foreign politics & policy boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus johnson said on twitter that his symptoms have developed over the last 24 hours and that he was tested on the advice of his chief medical officer. by charlie cooper no end in sight in europe by sarah wheaton merkel’s moment of truth by matthew karnitschnig inside trudeau's virtual war room: where canada's economic response is decided by teleconference by andy blatchford podcasts nerdcast the two trillion dollar question by scott bland, annie rees , jenny ament and irene noguchi women rule podcast ‘the story of our lifetime’: what it’s like to cover the coronavirus pandemic by zack stanton earlier minnesota on the edge: ‘i’ve voted democrat my whole life. it’s getting tougher.’ by adam behsudi biden goes in search of a bully pulpit by marc caputo biden to trump: start acting like ‘a wartime president’ coronavirus among air traffic control workers could threaten u.s. aviation system by brianna gurciullo health workers fear u.s. hospitals will become coronavirus hot spots by rachel roubein and susannah luthi twitter dodges u.s.-china coronavirus blame game by cristiano lima trump works to rewrite narrative on coronavirus response by anita kumar ‘i’d love to have it open by easter’: trump says he wants to restart economy by mid-april by quint forgey, gabby orr, nancy cook and caitlin oprysko hillary clinton mocks trump's science cred fema: defense production act no longer needed to secure thousands of test kits by quint forgey, sarah owermohle and megan cassella legal battles escalate over virus dangers to immigration detainees by josh gerstein pandemic sparks new front in abortion wars by alice miranda ollstein, renuka rayasam and danielle muoio how the government will track $500b in bailout funds by zachary warmbrodt small businesses, slammed by coronavirus, plead for quick help which states are changing their primaries over coronavirus by zach montellaro most read both parties pile on massie after effort to force recorded vote flops trump downplays need for ventilators as new york begs to differ inside joe biden’s bizarre coronavirus bunker a far-right rallying cry: older americans should volunteer to work poll: majority approve of trump’s coronavirus response, but more americans say he was too slow to act video trump signs $2 trillion coronavirus relief package campaigning during coronavirus birx: 'no reality on the ground' that 60 to 70 percent of u.s. will be infected in coming weeks trump asked about record unemployment numbers at coronavirus task force briefing trump: america is not ‘built to be shut down’ wuerker cartoons talkers “i’m an er doc and i’m scared” ‘extraordinary change’: how coronavirus is rewiring the republican and democratic parties who is most at risk in the coronavirus crisis: 24 million of the lowest-income workers coronavirus will change the world permanently. here’s how. biden’s top 12 running mates, ranked have a news tip? contact politico reporters and provide materials in an anonymous and secure way. learn more » exclusive news, intelligence and tools for professionals on the front lines of policy. learn more » about us advertising breaking news alerts careers credit card payments digital edition faq feedback headlines photos powerjobs press print subscriptions write for us rss site map terms of service privacy policy do not sell my info © 2020 politico llc