skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources politics an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 november 11, 2019 by miranda marquit leave a comment hey liz, you know you're my girl, right? we have some minor quibbles. i prefer a public option for healthcare, similar to what was originally proposed by president obama, to straight-up medicare … continue reading about an open letter to sen. elizabeth warren regarding #ab5 my turn at being at a pundit on local tv may 22, 2016 by miranda marquit leave a comment not too long ago, i was asked to join local news anchors to talk about our local and state primary results. because i'm involved with the local dems, they asked me on to provide my thoughts as a … continue reading about my turn at being at a pundit on local tv one of my favorite illustrations of privilege and how it results in a wealth gap january 24, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments i write a lot about the wealth gap and privilege. this is because it's something close to my heart. we tend to think that people get the jobs they "deserve," based on how hard they work. the reality … continue reading about one of my favorite illustrations of privilege and how it results in a wealth gap what, exactly, is a “minimum wage work ethic”? january 4, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments a few months ago i was at an event that involved a presentation on building a business. one of the quotes that stuck out to me was something to this effect: if you want to make more than minimum wage, … continue reading about what, exactly, is a “minimum wage work ethic”? if this is what it takes to be wheat, i think i’d rather be a tare november 8, 2015 by miranda marquit 2 comments a few days ago, i witnessed cognitive dissonance occur in real time. we all have moments of cognitive dissonance in our lives. as humans with complex brains and thinking processes, it's part and … continue reading about if this is what it takes to be wheat, i think i’d rather be a tare something to think about this memorial day may 25, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment we often talk about honoring our troops but do we put our collective public money where our mouths are? is it lip service only that we pay to our veterans? even though the number of homeless veterans … continue reading about something to think about this memorial day go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 35 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com