login cheezburger search latest posts politics channels memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation politics login submit memebase favorite kentuckians are meme-ing their beloved governor in these trying times share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email in these trying and crazy times, kentuckians are looking to governor andy beshear for answers. his daily 5pm livestream updates have become popular for their wholesome messages and his amusing call-outs to stubborn bingo halls that just won't close for coronavirus quarantining. he's even earned himself a facebook meme page, entitled "andy beshear memes for social distancing teens." check some of them out below! view list repost - vote - recaption comments andy beshear kentucky funny memes governor political memes andy beshear memes for social distancing teens quarantine covid-19 coronavirus politics memebase favorite best memes from last night's audience-free democratic debate share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email last night americans tuned in to watch the audience-free live democratic debate between remaining candidates joe biden and bernie sanders. topics of discussion included the green new deal, donald trump, and of course, the covid-19 pandemic. you can watch the debate here to decide for yourself who won, and click here for more political memes! view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter political debate bernie sanders funny memes democratic debate funny tweets election 2020 joe biden politics memebase favorite roundup of democratic debate memes that roast last night's total freak show share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email last night's democratic debate in nevada got pretty damn spicy to say the least. so much so that many are calling it the most entertaining debate of the election cycle so far. pete spoke spanish, warren (and every other candidate, for that matter) came out swinging against bloomberg, and many, many other things that warranted a monumental cringe fest. so please enjoy the following roast-y memes from the night and you can watch a more in-depth recap of it here! view list repost - vote - recaption comments wtf spicy debate cringe funny memes president democrat bloomberg roast election 2020 politics memebase favorite michael bloomberg memes that roast the cringey billionaire share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email you're probably already aware that michael bloomberg, cringey billionaire extraordinaire and 2020 presidential candidate, has been reaching out to various big-name meme accounts on instagram asking them to post content that makes him look a little more...hip to the kids, shall we say? but apparently he's doing something right with his presidential campaign, as he's been soaring in the polls and we're seeing ads for him practically everywhere. normally we don't like to get too political, but it's clear that bloomberg was not hugged enough as a child. view list repost - vote - recaption comments cringey michael bloomberg 2020 cringe funny memes president dank memes bloomberg rich people election 2020 billionaire politics memebase favorite 'nancy pelosi ripping paper' proves the political memes aren't going anywhere share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email while we would love for election season to be over right about now, we've gotta admit that the resulting political memes have been top-notch. the internet has been loving this particular dank meme, which shows speaker of the house nancy pelosi ripping up donald trump's state of the union speech. view list repost - vote - recaption comments politicians donald trump ignoring funny memes nancy pelosi political memes dank memes ignore trending politics memebase favorite trump gets roasted and meme'd for his orange tan line share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email president donald trump was photographed on friday returning to the white house from a trip to north carolina and let's just say...he's looking a bit like a mandarin orange. people have been meme-ing and roasting the photo, which shows a very defined tan line of the orange variety on his face. trump of course called the photo "fake news," and while we have to partially agree that the original was likely altered a bit, it's still amusing to see the reactions nonetheless! view list repost - vote - recaption comments orange twitter tan donald trump tan lines funny memes president twitter memes roast funny tweets trump memes politics memebase favorite the shadow team gets roasted for being shady during the iowa caucus share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email meet the shadow team in charge of developing an app meant to help tally the votes from the iowa caucus on monday night. the purpose of the app was to help the process run more smoothly, but in the end it proved to be a complete and utter disaster, as precinct chairs supposedly couldn't get the app to actually work, in turn causing a delay in reporting. the delay was blamed on "inconsistencies" in reporting, but honestly, who really knows what the truth is. the team is reportedly run by people who worked on hilary clinton's presidential campaign in 2016. additionally, 2020 candidate pete buttigieg's campaign paid the tech firm over $40,000 in 2019 leading many to suspect foul play. but this is america, and we can't possibly have problems with corruption, right? as of right now, we still don't have all the results from the caucus, so while you continue to anxiously refresh the new york times page, have some hot twitter takes on the people (rats) behind shadow, inc. view list repost - vote - recaption comments sketchy shady political shadow reaction tweets 2020 election funny memes presidential election caucus iowa reaction memes corruption memebase favorite bernie sanders writing on a whiteboard gets meme'd with hot takes share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email what started as bernie sanders writing an innocent thank you note to his field staff on a white board turned into memers filling it in with hotter takes and less savory messages. seriously, people should know better at this point than to post images on the internet of people with white boards. it's just asking for bad news. view list repost - vote - recaption comments political politics memes 2020 bernie sanders 2020 election bernie memes presidential election hot take socialist politics memebase favorite iowa caucus's delayed results have churned up some anxious reaction memes share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email last night the 2020 iowa democratic caucus stirred up quite the controversy when it was announced that the results would be delayed due to "inconsistencies" in a new app meant to speed up the reporting results of the caucus. ironic, to say the least. but hang tight, because they're set to be released at 5 pm eastern time. ahead of the results being released, pete buttigieg gave what appeared to be a victory speech last night to the confusion of many. the bizarre move has lead many to believe that the system may have been rigged in mayor pete's favor. as always, we have to give the disclaimer that we're not picking sides; we're merely reporting on what the internet has been saying, so scroll down to see some of our favorite reaction memes and tweets while we all wait impatiently for the results. view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter iowa caucus 2020 bernie sanders pete buttigieg funny memes presidential election caucus iowa reaction memes politics memebase favorite bernie still needs your financial support in these fresh dank memes share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email we've been seeing these bernie sanders memes practically everywhere on the internet lately, and they don't appear to be stopping any time soon! here's our last gallery in case you missed 'em. we sincerely hope you're not sick of political memes yet, because we've still got far to go before the 2020 presidential elections, so buckle up! view list repost - vote - recaption comments bernie bernie sanders funny memes political memes dank memes trending election socialist financial support money politics socialism memebase favorite twitter roasts pete buttigieg for his staged 'walk back to iowa' share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email poor mayor pete just can't seem to catch a break on the internet. the presidential candidate from south bend, indiana tweeted a photo of himself walking down a hallway on saturday with the caption, "on my way back to iowa. it's phase 4. let's do this." the tweet has been catching a fair amount of flack for appearing to be staged. here are some of twitter's most amusing reaction memes and tweets! view list repost - vote - recaption comments twitter pete buttigieg twitter reactions twitter memes funny tweets presidential election mayor pete funny twitter cheesy politics memebase favorite fourteen joe biden memes for the political satirists share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email look, we definitely don't want to hate on any particular candidate or take sides in this presidential election cycle, but joe biden has just been so meme-able this election season that we really had to take advantage of the material handed to us. we think that biden supporters and haters alike will be able to laugh at these. view list repost - vote - recaption comments presidential race 2020 president democrat presidential election barack obama election joe biden politics memebase favorite top memes and reactions to last night's democratic presidential debate share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email why do politics always make for the best meme material? we'll just let the politicians speak for themselves. in case you missed last night's democratic presidential debate, then we'll give you a little run down: cory booker accused joe biden of being high, amy klobuchar claimed she raised a crap-load of money from her ex-boyfriends, and biden made an, uh, brain-dead comment about domestic violence. scroll down to watch some of the highlights and view some of the internet's reactions! view list repost - vote - recaption comments kamala harris twitter presidential debate democratic debate 2020 bernie sanders funny memes twitter reactions elizabeth warren twitter memes funny tweets joe biden politics politics favorite we love democracy share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email via tuxedo winnie the pooh | know your meme repost - vote - recaption if the name of the country and the government that runs it has the words "peoples" "republic" or "democratic" then that is a communism comments tuxedo hong kong china democrat communism winner memebase favorite nancy pelosi pointing at trump is an assertive dank meme share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email during a meeting to discuss syria, speaker of the house nancy pelosi was photographed assertively pointing a finger at donald trump. trump later tweeted the photo with the caption, "nervous nancy's unhinged meltdown!" the photo has inspired a whole host of memes from every political angle. whether you're a trump supporter or a pelosi fan, we think you'll find these trending memes amusing. or maybe you hate both of them equally! that's certainly an option too! view list repost - vote - recaption comments nancy pelosi pointing at trump republicans donald trump funny memes nancy pelosi trending memes democrat trump memes politics white house fail blog favorite photoshop battle reaches logical conclusion and goes to town on donald trump's giant butt share show dropdown tweet stumble pin it email view list repost - vote - recaption comments donald trump photoshop battle trump memes upvoted 569 17 american healthcare memes that'll remind you to never ever get sick 342 memes that roast celebrities 'coping' with quarantine 327 40 disgruntled people who are having a worse day than you 218 60 memes to help you through life's thankless hell 149 forty-three random memes to help you waste time hot today 1 60 memes to help you through life's thankless hell 2 forty-three random memes to help you waste time 3 40 disgruntled people who are having a worse day than you 4 frustrated millennials want you to know they're not on spring break 5 the dank drop: 25 of our favorite dank memes of the week (3-21 to 3-27) follow the laughs facebook twitter pinterest terms | privacy | security | dmca policy privacy settings 1 2 3 4 5 have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter