got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... poll: do you consider brody jenner a playboy or a f**kboy? home › brody jenner › poll: do you consider brody jenner a playboy or a f**kboy? brody jenner has quite the history!! if you’ve been following pop culture for the past decade+, you’ll recall seeing the 36-year-old appear in early episode of the hills and keeping up with the kardashians, and if you’re a true og, maybe you’ll recall his 2005 series the princes of malibu. related: wait, were brody & kaitlynn in a ‘polyamorous relationship’?! but aside from his reality tv gigs, he’s also known for his various romantic pursuits. most recently, he was in a relationship for over five years with kaitlynn carter, which ended in flames — she quickly jumped into bed with miley cyrus, and he with josie canseco. long before his “wife” (turns out, he and kaitlynn never got legally married in the united states), mr. jenner has been someone to drool over and diss (maybe simultaneously) for years because of his good looks but bad boy attitude. a few of his notable relationships of the past have included: nicole richie, kristin cavallari, lauren conrad, and avril lavigne. he’s definitely dated around, and we’ve seen some of his less than desirable moments documented thanks to reality tv and thanks to the hollywood rumor mill. oh, here are two additional moments to keep in mind while making your decision on whether mr. jenner is a playboy (he’s even dated a few playboy models) or a f**kboy: his avril tattoo this is one instance where we’d def agree with ariana grande and pete davidson!! you’ll recall the once hot and heavy pair got multiple tattoos dedicated to each other over the course of their short-lived relationship, but subsequently covered them up upon splitting. for some odd reason, linda thompson‘s son has chosen not to do the same with a tattoo of “avril” on his arm. kaitlynn, you should have known things were doomed from the start if he still had that ink on him while you were together!! ‘sex with brody’ much like he seemed to struggle with holding down a girlfriend in the mid-2000s, his show sex with brody, which premiered on e! in 2015, struggled too. lasting a mere four episodes, the series faced backlash and negative reviews. in one review from the hollywood reporter, amy amatangelo wrote: “if you want to listen to brody jenner talk about his sex life while intermittently insulting and degrading women, then sex with brody is for you. for the rest of us, there are plenty of other tv shows out there.” what do u say, perezcious readers? is he simply a playboy? or a total f**kboy?! let us know (below): [image via djdm/la niece/wenn.] related posts hollywood reacts to coronavirus with production shutdowns & lots of facemask selfies! coronavirus! beyonce’s diva ways at kobe bryant’s memorial! ariana grande slammed by pete davidson! and…| perez hilton brody jenner & kaitlynn carter back together?? see the irl rom com evidence! logan paul is now dating brody jenner’s ex, josie canseco! click click click next article next article nov 22, 2019 6:14am pdt share this categories avril lavigne brody jenner kristin cavallari kuwtk lauren conrad nicole richie polls the hills view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy