skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: popular why you should visit baku, azerbaijan i visited baku, azerbaijan in march 2017 and really enjoyed it. to be quite honest, i had low expectations going in, but the city caught me by surprise! in this blog post, i will tell you about my experiences, provide travel tips, and prepare you for what to expect if you are planning a trip […] read more… posted in popular, travel60 comments ultimate travel guide to hanoi, vietnam *looking for hotels in hanoi? click this link to find the hottest deals in the city. it’s an affiliate link, meaning i make a small commission at no additional cost to you. your booking helps keep me this website running 🙂 i love hanoi. it’s one of my favorite cities on earth, and it has a very […] read more… posted in popular, travel88 comments north korea is not what i expected, and here’s why… let’s begin with this 4 minute video/documentary that i made from my trip to north korea (which is my first video ever to hit 1 million+ views!) . this video will change your perception of north koreai recently spent 3 days in pyongyang, north korea with koryo tours and i put together this short video/documentary from the […] read more… posted in popular, travel68 comments categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.