login | sign up wishlist bag your bag is empty men new arrivals new in : clothing new in : footwear & accessories products shirts t-shirts & polo shirts jeans trousers & chinos joggers vests knitwear shorts hoodies & sweatshirts coats & jackets innerwear & socks loungewear tailoring footwear bags & wallets accessories sunglasses jewellery best of koovs back in stock last chance to buy brands koovs nike adidas fila puma a-z of brands shop by edit paradise gang washed denim nu camden x koovs denim daze must haves graffiti & sticker print bomber & trucker jackets print on print trainers koovsxyou kunal khemu women new arrivals new in : clothing new in : footwear & accessories products tops dresses skirts trousers & leggings jumpsuits & playsuits jeans shorts cardigans & pullovers coats & jackets shoes bags & purses accessories sunglasses jewellery best of koovs back in stock last chance to buy brands koovs adidas nike puma fila a-z of brands shop by edit manish arora x koovs washed denims vintage varsity roller disco must haves party footwear embellished denims one shoulder edit light layering koovsxyou regina cassandra inspiration the blog the edit all women men koovs tv magazine your hotlist you need to create a koovs.com account to save features to your hotlist log in sign up oh snap! to do list | 20 august 2016 who: nick bateman username: nick bateman why follow: call us biased but believe us when we say this, nicholas yunge-bateman aka nick bateman is your go-to guy for all-things fitness. from his ace karate skills to six pack abs, he is 'the' canadian to follow on snapchat. although he's currently busy pursuing his acting career, be prepared to witness this gorgeous face along with joey (his loving dog) for cuteness overload. who: ankit vengurlekar username: gadgetwala why follow: if you are as crazy about technology as we are, there's no reason to not follow mumbai's current obesession, ankit vengurlekar. not only is he a lady killer, he will surprise you with his intense but very accurate knowledge on the latest gadgets from across the globe. plus it doesn't hurt to follow a cute guy, does it now? who: selena gomez username: selenagomez why follow: besides being an international pop sensation, selena gomez is busy shattering justin bieber's heart into a million pieces. as sad as we are that it's officially over, we can't get over selena's perfect selfies or her lifestyle goals. added her yet? who: drew binsky username: drewbinksy why follow: drew binksy better known as the 'hungry partier' will take you around the world with his travels, his in-depth knowledge of local culture and to the best parties. this 20-something has already travelled 75 countries and has over fourty-thousand followers on snapchat. need we say more? who: kiersten rich username: theblondeabroad why folow: travel? yes. fashion? yes. major photo envy? oh, yes! when it comes to kiersten rich, there's no dearth of perfect sunsets, delicious food and hammock life. let this gorgeous blonde inspire you in everywhere with her thrilling snapchat stories. share oh snap! + add to your hotlist tags selena gomez nick bateman drew binsky ankit vengurlekar kiersten rich more from to do list to do listinsta-brunch the best brunch spots in mumbai to fill your feed and your belly... read more + add to your hotlist to do listsplurge vs save refresh and pamper yourself at these luxurious destinations read more + add to your hotlist to do listto do: fash piercings it girls love ott ear decor and you should too... read more + add to your hotlist take me back to the hotlist top categories dresses for girls maxi dresses tops for girls women jumpsuits jeans for girls trousers & leggings shorts cardigans & pullovers dungarees dress long skirts leggings girls sweatshirts blazers for girls boots jeans for men heeled sandals backpacks for girls shoes for men sling bags sweaters for girls crop tops top brands koovs new look forever new brave soul noble faith nike ax paris glamorous femella vero moda only adidas originals koovs coupons & offers need help? contact us track order returns policy shipping information faqs terms and conditions privacy policy contact us +91-124-6770000 care@m-eretail.com download our app connect with us koovs.com © 2019 | all rights reserved