news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues masturbation is good for the immune system. by curtis silver march 25, 2020 image: angus mordant/new york daily news the novel coronavirus and its associated disease, covid-19, has had a profound effect on society. while it’s yet to be determined the final effect on the economy, for the moment it has created a world in which we all kind of stay to ourselves. that world is enhanced greatly with free porn. after noticing the surge in coronavirus-related porn and offering free premium porn to the entire country of italy, pornhub is now offering free premium porn access to the world, so that we may cope with this social isolation the best we know – masturbating our way through it. “with nearly one billion people in lockdown across the world because of the coronavirus pandemic, it’s important that we lend a hand and provide them with an enjoyable way to pass the time,” said pornhub vp corey price in a press release. “we hope by expanding our offer of free pornhub premium worldwide, people have an extra incentive to stay home and flatten the curve.” stay home and help flatten the curve! since covid-19 continues to impact us all, pornhub has decided to extend free pornhub premium worldwide until april 23rd. so enjoy, stay home, and stay safe 🔥 https://t.co/zponkgksjn #stayhomehub pic.twitter.com/dxwjgbnnkc — pornhub aria (@pornhub) march 24, 2020 porn companies have not been sitting idly by and hoping that humans suddenly discover the benefits of porn in a lockdown with working internet. they have been actively altruistic and working to make sure that their brands are just as needed and relevant as any other. pornhub donated 50k masks, youporn started a $100k relief fund for research, and camsoda is launching a functionality for entertainment businesses to monetize livestreams. it’s a small thing, free porn, in this time of uncertainty. psychologically, it can provide at least some kind of an outlet when many cities are on lockdown and we might not be able to see our significant others, hook up with randos (josiah), an excuse to use hand sanitizer as lube (joe), or just need a boost in morale (kevin). pornhub isn’t taking too much of a loss on this, it’s basically free advertising. so go, get your free premium porn and crank away your feelings of social isolation. everything is temporary. what do you think? plan on taking advantage of this offer from pornhub? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: reddit’s fastest-growing subreddit right now? /r/coronavirus, of course uber eats will waive delivery fees for local restaurants due to the coronavirus the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine the best audiobooks to listen to while you isolate related topicscdccoronaviruscovid-19newspornpornhubporntechie curtis silver writing about consumer technology, social media and the deep layers of psychological torture endured by all of it. the world is changing, but that doesn't mean we can't be cynical about it. it's not all sunshine and roses in silicon valley. it's self loathing, pretentiousness and machines that squeeze juice for you. also, a strong affinity for toasters.follow on twitter @cebsilver for them jokes. chaotic neutral. pitches to cebsilver@gmail.com comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in #porntechie sex toy tech trends in 2020 it’s never been easier to jump into the game and find out what the... ohmibod connects your genitals to the next decade of sex tech at ces time to vibrate into 2020. xhamster data proves that #nonutnovember is a bust just spank it and shut up porn cam site camsoda will be streaming thanksgiving dinner for all the horny, lonely people pass that moist turkey leg. some camgirl sites you’ve never heard of but probably use exposed user data s(ecurity) & m(aintenance) virtual mate, the immersive crank-off experience, introduces spa-skin dick burrito. youporn offers energy saving tips in solidarity with the global climate strike efficient ejaculation. you can now log in to youporn with your discord account disporncord sex toy tech trends in 2020 home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie