skip to content resources podcast portfolio blog about contact menu resources podcast portfolio blog about contact about we help photographers become better visual storytellers what is visual storytelling? it’s a method of approaching your photography with the knowledge of who you’re trying to serve with your photos, and what emotion you want to make them feel. we encourage you to concentrate on your subject, light and background to create a photo your audience loves. i’m glad you found us! lee beem podcast co-host lee is a food and product photographer, fitness coach and kickboxing bad-ass. william beem photographer / blogger / podcast co-host william is a portrait and travel photographer, blogger and podcaster. his main goal in life is to keep lee happy. get started as a visual storyteller if this approach to photography appeals to you, click the button below to get your own free, illustrated guide to the techniques of visual storytelling. you'll learn how to take a great photo every time without spending a cent. get your free guide 6 thoughts on “about” owen w brown april 15, 2010 at 11:52 am i really appreciate your approach to photography. i too have a day job, started shooting with film as a youngster, lost interest because film is a hassle, rediscovered photography thru the digital format; first via my iphone, then point and shoot, then investing in a dslr. thank you for sharing. your pictures are fantastic and your style, making photographs as opposed to taking them, is very, well, honest. inspiring. kjeld friis march 30, 2011 at 8:39 am thanks for all the weird and quirky post. it is always a pleasure to read about your random thoughts and see them translated into cool pictures. if you ever come by egypt, drop by and i’ll take you out for some underwater photography. william march 30, 2011 at 10:59 am kjeld, thanks. i’m not sure how to control the thoughts that come into my head, but that’s why i started this site. it gives me a place to just let them ooze out and see what form it takes. i would love to take a trip to egypt for some photography, but i’ve never been diving before. i have this thing i call beem’s law: when you transition between land and sea, you reverse your position in the food chain. roger k. laudy december 10, 2011 at 6:07 pm william, thanks for the kind words about my company on scott’s site.:) roger k. laudy president image wizards/aluminarte william december 10, 2011 at 7:37 pm roger, meant every word. i have that print mounted right by my desk and love it. kelli thomas july 23, 2012 at 4:41 pm i am looking forward to exploring your site….thanks for the follow on twitter. comments are closed. copyright © 2020 william beem free resources lightroom portrait brushes visual stories ebook lightroom classic performance hacks ebook creative portraits ebook navigation resources podcast portfolio blog about policies terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact menu terms of use privacy policy disclaimer photo licensing contact