petapixel news equipment tutorials archives send a tip links about contact advertise privacy policy full disclosure search type here what you are looking for search 500 k 1 m facebook 500 k / likes twitter 1 m / followers portraits in the time of coronavirus: shooting free front porch photo sessions mar 25, 2020 paul f. gero share tweet 0 we are living in unprecedented times. as a photographer of social events (weddings), individual, family, business portraits and sports, the recent closing of schools and the virtual shut down of our towns and cities—basically our lives as we have known it—has shut everything down. it is a difficult time for so many and i am grateful that we are here close to family, that all of us are healthy and safe, and also grateful for the people continuing to work like first responders, grocery store workers, truck drivers, delivery services, restaurants doing carry out, and the media for helping keep us informed. as a former newspaper photojournalist, i’ve been thinking about what i can do with my talents and also how to capture this incredibly historic time in our country’s (and our families’) history. i’ve been photographing professionally for over 35 years and have never seen anything quite like what our country and our world is experiencing right now. i believe i found a way to do that in a safe and responsible way, following all current cdc social distancing recommendations while creating work that is important, beautiful and a gift to my neighbors. the project to photograph my neighbors on their home’s front porch or through the front window of their house, while we both are applying the current cdc approved guidelines for social distancing. i’m photographing from a safe distance using a longer zoom lens and creating an environmental portrait of each family. they receive the photographs as my gift, while allowing me to create this work and share it on my website, social networks and in printed materials. how it started i went to my niece and nephew-in-law’s home last wednesday afternoon, their two girls were sitting in their large front window. my niece stayed in, as did the girls, while jeremy came out to give me the item i had come to collect. but that image of the girls at the window stayed at the forefront of my mind. it was a beautiful scene—poignant and also truly revealing of the time we are in—but i didn’t have a camera with me to photograph it. as is common for photographers, the image that “got away” gnawed at me. i called them back and proposed that i come back to take a picture. the result is the portrait you see below. driving around our beautiful and quiet little town (especially quiet now), i saw the gorgeous homes and realized that i could create some really beautiful portraits of people on their front porch or in their front window, all while keeping a safe distance and respecting the cdc social distancing guidelines. a great painting by grant woods called “american gothic” came into mind, because it shows a husband and wife in front of an iowa home. it’s always been one of my favorite paintings, and i want to create my homage to that in these photos. ultimately, this project started because it was a story that i felt had to be told for now and for future generations. there is so much uncertainty and fear caused by not knowing how long this will place our lives on hold. we’re still new in town, without too many clients booked yet, but many of my colleagues have been experiencing far worse situations than me with the loss of income from their weddings. my heart goes out to them. personally, my sister and her husband (who live 1/4 mile from us) will not come by to visit — we visit now outside the houses with our dogs while social distancing. my niece, her husband and their kids who live on the other side of our small town won’t be visiting until this is clear. she is a hairdresser and is not working now because of the shut downs to her industry. her husband is still working. my wife and two kids are home and we are social distancing from our neighbors, though we can still chat to them across the fence or from a safe distance. luckily we are in a neighborhood where many residents walk animals at the evening or are out with family. we all practice safe social distancing. nothing like this has been seen in of our modern era. my photojournalism background is clear in the portraits and the drive to do this story. for the health considerations, i have followed all the current cdc guidelines, keeping my distance and only photographing people who are healthy and have not tested positive with the covid-19 virus. in terms of gear, i’m taking pictures with a sony a7r iv and an a9 ii using three lenses: a 70-200mm f/2.8 g master, a 135mm f/1.8 g master, and a 24-70mm f/2.8 g master. i will sometimes use a small ikea step ladder to raise my height a bit for portraits of people in windows or to help keep the perspective of their home if i’m including the face of it in the portrait. the project is voluntary and i am doing it pro bono. the subjects will receive the high resolution images for participating. we have talked about doing a book after we get through this time and i think it will be a time capsule for our town and what happened in march 2020 that changed the world. this is not a project for everyone—i don’t want to either encourage or discourage anyone from doing one of their own. for now, we’ve stopped booking sessions after reaching our goal of 100 families, and have added a wait list so that we can hopefully schedule sessions when the time is right. here are some images that i captured before wednesday 3/25/2020: about the author: paul f. gero is a wisconsin-based wedding and portrait photographer, videographer, author, educator and sony artisan. you can see more of his work and follow his “portraits in the time of corona” project through his website and instagram. tags: coronavirus, covid, covid19, inspiration, novelcoronavirus, portraitphotography, portraits, portraiture share tweet 0 please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus. prev this obstacle avoiding drone is so fast it can play dodgeball next polaroid originals reclaims ‘polaroid’ name, unveils polaroid now camera trending posts photos of the robots living among us mar 25, 2020 sony spins off camera business into separate company mar 26, 2020 adobe is giving everyone 2 months of free creative cloud — here’s how to get it mar 18, 2020 a boston event photographer shares her story of contracting covid-19 mar 24, 2020 21 portrait photography lessons from 21 great photographers mar 25, 2020 nat geo: those viral animal photos you’ve been seeing on twitter are fake mar 24, 2020 the library of fake ‘travel photos’ in asia mar 24, 2020 photographer died protecting his film during the 1980 mt. st. helens eruption sep 07, 2011 ilford: stockpile rolls of film, not toilet paper mar 25, 2020 70 inspirational quotes for photographers may 29, 2014 polaroid originals reclaims ‘polaroid’ name, unveils polaroid now camera mar 26, 2020 i used my drone to take fun portraits of people in self-isolation 7 hours ago drone photos of singapore shot at 1,640 feet mar 23, 2020 nikon z vs nikon d: a comparison mar 24, 2020 portraits in the time of coronavirus: shooting free front porch photo sessions mar 25, 2020 the supreme court just decided that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement mar 23, 2020 how to turn your bedroom into a giant camera and use it to make pictures mar 24, 2020 adobe offers students free at-home access to creative cloud apps amid coronavirus closures mar 13, 2020 eerie drone footage of an empty san francisco during quarantine mar 26, 2020 this obstacle avoiding drone is so fast it can play dodgeball mar 25, 2020 archives news gear inspiration tutorials reviews archives podcast copyright © 2020 petapixel subscribe our newsletter to stay up to date 500 k 1 m