skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download post slider for wpbakery page builder by nasir details reviews installation support development description best post carousel plugin for wpbakery page builder – wordpress plugin with post layout carousel, you can create carousels in post and grid styles. we’ve integrated into wpbakery page builder to bring you a very flexible, very lightweight and very intuitive carousel creation system. carousel anything is responsive and touch enabled. in touch devices, you can drag and swipe the carousel to move it. wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin must be installed and activated to use this plugin. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. live demo | contact | support forum | how to use | get pro if you like this plugin, please give us 5 star to encourage for future improvement. features 7 post designs build query post carousel post grid filter with category show based on tags set post count order by time color variations dots, arrows or none installation go to plugins in your dashboard and select ‘add new’. search for ‘post slider for wpbakery page builder’ and install it. go to pages and create design with help of viusal composer page builder. fill some additional informations. now visit your site reviews it’s not working andrvasvas october 12, 2019 i could not figure out how this plugin works. after installation, nothing has changed. i searched everywhere but couldn't set up post carousel very prompt and professional reply and support jgorres february 17, 2019 hi, i had a problem with the plugin, which was mainly cauesed by my personal stupidness. however, nasir acted prompt and solved it within less than half an hour. so, guys, let me tell you: even if the problem is sitting in front of the screen, as long as you ask for assistance in a friendly and appropriate manor, you will get prompt and professional assistance. thanks again, nasir, for your patience. kind regards, jörn. bugs sandeeptete1 january 28, 2019 it has some bugs that can be resolved...dont know if it is meant for free version this way perfect colligro january 7, 2019 beautiful and powerful design! great good start, but needs a few fixes ms3doo april 20, 2018 hello, thank you for that plugin. it is a good start to make it great, with a few tweeks. first, there is a possibility it goes wrong with get_the_content(), for me there was a problem with stacking items one inside another - probably html inconsistency in post content. i fixed it, i replaced get_the_content() with get_the_excerpt(). another thing is thumbnail size. i don't see a reason this is not under options. "large" is way too big for many occasions. also, random order is not working for me, i had to change query outside the plugin. please consider that modifications and fixes. br must have plugin with urgent feature! chamboy87 april 2, 2018 this a great plugin!, very easy and useful, but its need some modification like "pagination" to post grids. i wish author will add this feature in near future update. thank you for this awesome plugin!. read all 7 reviews contributors & developers “post slider for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors nasir179125 translate “post slider for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.1 bug fixed: plugin auto remove p tags from paragraph 1.0 first version meta version: 1.1 last updated: 3 weeks ago active installations: 2,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.0 tags: all in one pluginpost slider for visual composervisual composervisual composer extension advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 4 4 stars 0 3 stars 1 2 stars 1 1 star 1 contributors nasir179125 support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.