linkedin-logo-full linkedin-logo-icon logo-404-front logo-404-back linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin logo linkedin talent solutions get $50 off your first job post. see additional terms. linkedin jobs reach candidates you can't find anywhere else post a job now job seekers visit linkedin every week members are interested in hearing about new opportunities a hire is made every 8 seconds using linkedin reach engaged job seekers on the world’s largest professional network. every week, over 25 million job seekers visit linkedin to discover new job opportunities. linkedin members care deeply about growing in their careers – and it shows. every 2 seconds, linkedin members make 318 connections, add 15 new professional skills to their profiles, and submit 35 job applications. narrow in on the right candidates, quickly. personalized job targeting, candidate screening questions, and powerful matching algorithms help 80% of hirers on linkedin receive a qualified applicant in just 24 hours. find the people you want to hire. quickly review applicants and prioritize the best ones. linkedin jobs’ filtering tools are easy to use and help you quickly reach out to promising applicants through inmail for free. filtering tools are easy to apply and activate. reach out to applicants through inmail at no extra cost. learn how linkedin jobs is different uniquely qualified get your job in front of linkedin members who are active on our network, engaged in their careers, and open to new opportunities. targeted matches our network gives us a deep, up-to-date, and insightful dataset of professionals. we use that data to match your role to the most qualified professionals. only pay for results pay only when candidates view your job post. tell us your budget, and we can estimate how many applicants you'll receive. get started with linkedin jobs post a job now about cookie policy privacy policy user agreement sitemap linkedin logo © linkedin corporation 2020 social-linkedin social-slideshare social-twitter social-youtube social-facebook social-rss cancel