skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more tools powerful tools of the trade for online entrepreneurs we only recommend online platforms that we use ourselves to manage and grow our business. there’s no hype or fluff here—just the best stuff that we’ve found to be essential to achieving online business success. serious professionals in any industry use the best tools. those pros know that such tools are instruments of their success. the online business ecosystem is no different. when used well, tools can be real game-changers. which are the best tools for online entrepreneurs serious about growing their business? we have worked hard over the years to answer that question by testing dozens upon dozens of platforms. most are okay. some stink. and a few are excellent. here are our chosen few—those platforms that we have come to love and trust. the spi business could not function without these tools. we are grateful for the teams who build these tools and the care they show their customers like us. important disclosure: please read before proceeding we are proud affiliates for some of these tools. affiliate links are used for each tool that we are an affiliate of, which means that if you click that link and subsequently make a purchase, we will earn a commission. you pay nothing extra; any commission we earn comes at no additional cost to you. please understand that our recommendations are based on deep experience with and knowledge of these companies. we recommend them to online entrepreneurs like you because they are genuinely helpful and useful, not because of the small commissions we receive if you choose to buy something. please do not spend any money on these products unless you feel you need them or that they will help you achieve your goals. most recommended tools try bluehost $ this is an affiliate link bluehost #1 for website hosting bluehost is our go-to hosting platform for all of our websites, including this one. bluehost is a proven powerhouse in the website hosting industry. they offer exceptional customer service. they allow you to host multiple domains under one account, which is super convenient. they're as reliable as they come. and they offer an exclusive discount just for you as an spi fan: hosting for only $2.75/month! try buzzsprout $ this is an affiliate link buzzsprout #1 for starting and growing a podcast the absolute best platform to use to launch and grow your show. if you host your podcast with buzzspout from the get go, then you’re in a golden spot. we love buzzsprout for its ease of use, product-centric ethos, devotion to podcasters, and concentration on the fundamental features that actually matter versus crazy bells and whistles that most podcasters don’t really need. try convertkit $ this is an affiliate link convertkit #1 for building email lists convertkit is the only email marketing platform we use, and will ever use. convertkit is our #1 recommended email marketing platform because it has been built with care to the exact needs of creators building online businesses. their user experience is very user-friendly. and segmenting our subscribers into focused groups so that we can deliver content specific to their needs has never been easier. we’re all-in on convertkit. try rightmessage $ this is an affiliate link rightmessage #1 for marketing optimization rightmessage gives us the ability to communicate with our fans on their terms. it’s hard to get your messaging right, which harms your ability to motivate others to take a call-to-action. thankfully, rightmessage is here to save the day. their platform empowers you to dynamically display content and user experiences on your site tailored to individual audience types, which can dramatically boost your conversion rates. try teachable $ this is an affiliate link teachable #1 for online courses offering online courses to our audience revolutionized our business a few years ago. that was possible thanks to teachable, a market leader in the booming online courses industry. all of our online courses are housed on teachable because they make it so darn simple to configure content, manage settings, and sell to students. there’s absolutely no coding required to set up and start selling your online course. browse our other tools by category: business platforms collaboration technology legal & compliance tools marketing platforms podcasting tools project management apps sales platforms video production tools website & form builders business platforms guideline we are so grateful that guideline exists because without it we may never have rolled out a 401(k) plan to our team. it integrates beautifully with gusto, which we use for payroll. and it keeps us compliant, which provides blissful peace of mind. try guideline gusto gusto makes running our spi business a breeze. it starts with payroll, which is critical to get right for a growing business. we also use gusto for pto tracking, culture surveys, important document capture, and more. oh, and their concierge team is dynamite. try gusto $ this is an affiliate link help scout there's no way we could operate our customer care inboxes without help scout. we also rely on help scout as the home of knowledge base tutorial content for some of our offerings. it's pure magic in the form of a software system made to delight. try help scout $ this is an affiliate link collaboration technology dropbox dropbox is our cloud-based document storage system of choice that easily syncs with all of our team's computers and provides simple access controls to third-party contributors. we also dabble with dropbox paper for elegant document creation. try dropbox $ this is an affiliate link slack slack is our beloved digital hq for all things spi. we organize all of our communications in slack using various channels tailored to unique projects, departments, and hierarchies. it's made email almost a thing of the past, which is glorious for our productivity. try slack zoom many, many companies have tried to get video conferencing right. zoom finally did. all of our internal meetings and external calls are hosted through a zoom conference line. the quality is unmatched. screensharing is simple. and recording is easy. try zoom legal & compliance tools cookiebot cookiebot ensures that your website is compliant with the latest privacy laws. it consists of three important features: cookie consent, cookie monitoring, and cookie control. for example, worried about gdpr? worry no more with cookiebot. try cookiebot hellosign the document signing process can be a real hassle—emailing various pdfs back and forth, scanning hard copies, etc. thankfully, there's a much faster, easier, and more secure way—use hellosign. we use it for all of our sensitive documents, and always will. try hellosign legalzoom forming a business is almost effortless with legalzoom. pat used legalzoom to form some of his first companies. and although we have a legal team that does this sort of work for us today, we still believe that legalzoom is a strong option for many entrepreneurs. try legalzoom marketing platforms convertkit convertkit is the only email marketing platform we use, and will ever use. convertkit is our #1 recommended email marketing platform because it has been built with care to the exact needs of creators building online businesses. their user experience is very user-friendly. and segmenting our subscribers into focused groups so that we can deliver… try convertkit $ this is an affiliate link demio after loads of trial and error with other webinar platforms, we discovered demio. it was love at first sight. finally, we found a platform that provides great video quality, is very stable, makes adding guest presenters a snap, and has excellent user experiences included like public and private chat channels. there's no beating demio. try demio $ this is an affiliate link rightmessage rightmessage gives us the ability to communicate with our fans on their terms. it’s hard to get your messaging right, which harms your ability to motivate others to take a call-to-action. thankfully, rightmessage is here to save the day. their platform empowers you to dynamically display content and user experiences on your site tailored to… try rightmessage $ this is an affiliate link podcasting tools buzzsprout the absolute best platform to use to launch and grow your show. if you host your podcast with buzzspout from the get go, then you’re in a golden spot. we love buzzsprout for its ease of use, product-centric ethos, devotion to podcasters, and concentration on the fundamental features that actually matter versus crazy bells and… try buzzsprout $ this is an affiliate link rev.com we have relied on rev.com for years for all of our podcast episode transcription needs. the quality is always there. and price is always fair. and despite the hype of some newer options in the industry, rev.com continues to deliver without fail. try rev.com fusebox player most web-based podcast players are a total bust, which is why we built our own: the fusebox podcast player. it's the solution we needed to a key problem: galvanizing the consumption and growth of our podcast via our own website. we love it, and fans do too. try fusebox player project management apps airtable if you're a big fan of spreadsheets, then you'll love airtable as a means of organizing and planning your work. it's become a powerhouse option within the world of project management systems. with loads of customizable options, it's worth considering. try airtable coschedule if you're looking for a content-specific project management solution, then look no further than coschedule. it integrates seamlessly with your wordpress blog. it allows for standard editorial workflows to be created. and it centralizes all content creation tasks. try coschedule $ this is an affiliate link monday.com monday.com is our new go-to work management platform. it's drag-and-drop simple. there are oodles of pre-made templates for a variety of use cases. and it's highly collaborative and visual by design. we use it for darn near everything we do. try monday.com sales platforms eventbrite if you run your own events, then do yourself a favor and sell your tickets through eventbrite. we've tried to adapt other platforms for ticket sales and it never really works. we always come back to eventbrite, which powers such events as flynncon. try eventbrite stripe stripe is the gold standard for payment processors. pat uses it to process payments for his private mastermind and workshops. most saas companies today use it for their recurring payments, as we do with smart podcast player and as does teachable. try stripe teachable offering online courses to our audience revolutionized our business a few years ago. that was possible thanks to teachable, a market leader in the booming online courses industry. all of our online courses are housed on teachable because they make it so darn simple to configure content, manage settings, and sell to students. there’s absolutely… try teachable $ this is an affiliate link video production tools frame.io frame.io is a key component of pat's workflow for producing, reviewing, and collaborating on videos. the user experience is off the hook. and upload times are blazing fast. and it's all highly secured. if you're a video pro like pat, definitely check out frame.io. try frame.io $ this is an affiliate link loom loom is a welcomed breath of fresh air in the world of video recording tools. there's a free plan option that's not lacking in features. and videos are saved automatically to the cloud. we use loom anytime we need to create an important explanatory video. try loom wistia wistia hosts all of our core educational and marketing videos, including our online course videos and promotional videos. we've been using it for years and have no intention of switching to a different option. we believe in wistia and are all in on them. try wistia website & form builders bluehost bluehost is our go-to hosting platform for all of our websites, including this one. bluehost is a proven powerhouse in the website hosting industry. they offer exceptional customer service. they allow you to host multiple domains under one account, which is super convenient. they're as reliable as they come. and they offer an exclusive discount… try bluehost $ this is an affiliate link leadpages we have long used leadpages to create dedicated landing pages to launch a new educational product or experience. like most brands, we prefer to build pages on our own site. however, whenever we cannot, we use leadpages to get the job done. try leadpages $ this is an affiliate link typeform whenever we need to collect feedback from our audience or provide a helpful contact user experience, we lean on typeform. the form builder is the best we've ever seen. the web interfaces are gorgeous. and the data mining on the back-end is super simple. try typeform $ this is an affiliate link want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less