ppc management company! google, facebook, bing pay per click ads think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 pay per click management we manage $20+ million in annual ppc advertising. get started now ppc marketing results a-absolute plumbing 43% decrease in cost per conversion 75% increase in total conversion 49% increase ctr global gold & silver 56% increase in conversions 45% decrease in cost per conversion 52% decrease in cost per click long island carpet cleaners 64% increase in conversions 53% decrease in cost per conversion 24% increase in click through rate why choose smartsites for ppc marketing pay for profitable clicks optimize your ppc marketing campaigns with well-researched and targeted keywords and search terms. talented ppc marketing team our ppc specialists possess many years of experience handling ppc campaigns for a wide spectrum of businesses. we're the best in the field our ppc specialists are good at what they do. that’s why we are rated in the top 2% of all google partner agencies. brilliant reviews we are constantly creating customer satisfaction by delivering stellar ppc marketing solutions. ppc marketing benefit small businesses ppc is not only for major corporations! small businesses can also benefit from running ppc marketing campaigns. make the most of your ppc ad spend you deserve better. let smartsites help ensure that your ppc ad spend produces the conversions you need. optimized from click to close our team analyzes and tests every aspect of your campaign to rigorously optimize it. enjoy complete peace of mind your ppc ads are being managed by ppc specialists and certified google adwords experts. transparency & honesty our company has nothing to hide. we believe that our clients have the right to know what is happening in your ppc campaigns. stunning results we have produced killer results for hundreds of clients. you might have already seen our work in action! monthly reporting we make it extremely easy for our clients to track the performance of their ppc ads via monthly reports and meetings. tailored package no two businesses are alike. that’s why we utilize a personalized approach to help achieve your ppc goals. top rated ppc management clients rave about our fantastic results, both with delivering roi and also customer service. we strive to deliver the best results for your business. shari wasserman, president lifestyle directives group being a new e-commerce business since 2016; growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! richard brunhouse, vice president a & a coatings i highly and personally recommend smartsites to anyone who is in the market for the services that they offer. tara callan, social media master holistic formulations hired smartsites to do some adwords for my company and they were really able to deliver great results. matthew jorgensen, owner foundation flooring i started using [smartsites] the last 6 months of the year and my entire business grew by over 30% from one year to the next. ofer sharon, owner velocity moving & storage since we started working with them on our ppc campaign our company have seen great results and was able to generate more business. mark k. setton, partner pursuit of happiness our traffic is up by twenty percent and the quality of our traffic, in terms of exit rates and page visits, has improved beyond expectation. google channel partners trust a top-tier google partner agency to get the most out of your adwords budget work with the industry's best we are rated in the top 2% of all google partner agencies for performance and customer service. our ppc specialists are some of the best in the industry and specialize in helping you grow your business. smartsites performance % google partners average % google partners minimum % top 2% ppc services how smartsites performsppc marketing if you are looking to grow your business with the help of ppc marketing, we can create the perfect campaign for you. technical specification people & process what is ppc marketing? ppc stands for pay per click. if you’ve ever searched for anything on google or bing, you will have noticed the ads at the top of the search engine vying for your attention; in fact, you may have clicked on one or two of them yourself. those are pay per click marketing ads and they are driving results for the businesses that have chosen that category of marketing. how does ppc marketing work? firstly, you undertake keyword research to ensure you have the kinds of keywords that people are searching for on google and that those keywords are relative to your business. you can then set up a marketing campaign targeted at people using those search terms. some of the keywords are highly competitive, so expect to pay a different rate per keyword. you can specify how much you want to pay for which keywords, but a lower bid will result in a lower ad position. you specify a total budget and once your ad goes live it will be amongst the ads at the top of the google page for the search term being used. you only pay once someone clicks on your ad. does ppc marketing guarantee results? if ppc marketing guaranteed results, everyone would use it. that is where your research comes into play. ppc marketing is a very finely-honed art and can take a long time to master. our team can help create some estimates in regards to impressions, clicks, and conversions or do a free audit of your current campaign. can you help me get results? yes, marketing is our passion and our expertise. we can help you get the best for your business. as part of being a google partner, we are constantly held to high standards in terms of performance and customer satisfaction. are ppc results measurable? yes, they are. our team uses a mix of leads and sales tracking technology to gather the information everyone needs. from there, we will optimize your campaign based on that data. we can break down the monthly reports in terms of impressions, clicks, cost, click through rate, and most importantly conversions. if you need further analysis, your ppc analyst will be happy to pull any numbers. sounds great. where do i start? you are most welcomed to schedule an initial consultation with our team or request a free ppc audit. simply give us a call at 201-870-6000 or send an email to contact@smartsites.com. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: services ppc marketing recent ppc posts posted on february 27, 2020 does your business benefit from managed ppc services? read posted on february 12, 2020 how to get ad remarketing right read posted on january 23, 2020 creating ppc ad copy requires a direct approach read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect