about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: pregnancy clothes & gear the best maternity swimsuit updated mar 11, 2020 neve when you’re pregnant during summer, the heat can sometimes feel unbearable. jumping into the pool for a dip is a great way to cool off and get some healthy … read more » the 15 best nursing bras to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve if there's a world of difference between a good bra and a bad bra, then there is a universe between the best nursing bras and the bad ones. try … read more » the few bits of pregnancy gear you actually need updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer don't be fooled! there is very little you actually need when pregnant. keep it simple, save money and stick to these few essential items. read more » top 3 maternity belts vs top 3 belly bands of 2020 updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer are you at the point in your pregnancy where back pain is starting to feel like the norm? are you wearing the same maternity pants every day because they are … read more » the best maternity pants to buy in 2020 updated mar 9, 2020 neve spicer the best maternity pants reviewed by a pregnant woman (me) who knows what she's talking about. hello to comfort, goodbye tight sweaty pants from hell. read more » best pregnancy pillows of 2020 (because you’re worth it!) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer even if you’re completely on board with pregnancy being one of the most wonderful times of your life, there are things that are a drag for all moms. finding … read more » we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest