skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » premium filter and search form wordpress themes to get more website bookings 2019 premium filter and search form wordpress themes to get more website bookings 2019 october 26, 2019 julia starlark theme collections 0 comments even the number of users who use the site search tool is near 30 percent, having the one motivates them to take advantage of it. so, if you are looking for ways to significantly increase the search usability of your website, the list of premium filter and search form wordpress themes is the key to win. this is especially true for ecommerce sites that grow in size and complexity. if your users know what they want & what they look for, your task is to know what and how to offer it. say, if your site provides a service through information delivery such as booking for flights, vacations or deals, having filters and search forms is essential. despite the huge number of wordpress themes offering the diversity of options and settings, far not all of them can boast filter & search form options variety. for that reason, the list of beautiful wp templates below can cove that void necessary to keep your visitors motivated and engaged. the less your users will have to think on your website, the higher the conversion rate and the more it matters your bottom line. but don’t take our word for it, try it. save your regrets for later and pick one of these filter and search form wordpress themes on the list below. at the end of the day, you and your bottom line will be glad you did. premium filter and search form wordpress themes you can’t pass on freightco | transportation & warehousing wordpress theme does your website provide smooth experiences when a user is searching for any information he/she needs? with freightco, it’s easy to build a website that expresses its response as a set of results. gdpr & gutenberg ready, it fits logistics websites right off. whether your business is related to transportation, shipping or package delivery, freightco is second to none. therefore, being one of the best filter and search form wordpress themes on the list, freightco is worth exploring. apart from that, it’s wpml ready, so your website is open up to a new market from fact. all in all, built with elementor page builder, it gives you the freedom to get creative with its layouts until you’re proud. so, why not check it out right away? more info / download demo kargo | logistics & transportation wordpress theme as a serious business owner, you’re interested in having a website that stands out from the masses. with kargo, it’s easy to build a modern website that is great out of the gate. built for logistics websites, kargo fits transportation, shipping, and package delivery businesses right off. besides, being wordpress 5.0 compatible, it ensures your website is built in line with the latest website design standards. in addition to that, it comes in two languages en & es, and is wpml ready, so your website is open up to a new market. take advantage of elementor page builder to create your own unique layouts on a go. finally, don’t shy away from starting your own blog as it can mean a dramatic boost in the promotion of your business. more info / download demo homeroofer | roofing company services & construction wordpress theme wish to improve your bottom line? then, you need to improve your conversion rates by helping users make a purchase and become customers. homeroofer is a modern specimen of filter and search form wordpress themes designed to help convert visits into sales. crafted with care for industrial websites, homeroofer is second to none for remodeling, carpentry, cleaning or house repair businesses. jam-packed with two beautiful pre-designed homepages, it allows you to get creative when showcasing bells & whistles of your brand. indeed, you can always create more unique layouts to make sure that your website sticks out a mile. and the best part is that its woocommerce ready, so it can mean a dramatic boost in sales. need more features? then slam the live demo button. more info / download demo solaris | travel agency wordpress theme do you know what your users are looking for while staying on your site? ask them. with the help of a set of contact forms, it’s easier to guide users across your conversion funnel. as a result, you can help your users pick the best offer from your search results page. designed for travel agency websites, solaris fits travel magazines, tourism bureaus, or wellness businesses right off. enjoy awesome galleries with polaroid effect, dozens of ready-made shortcodes, and a set of premade modules to minify as much coding issues as possible. without a doubt, creating more unique layouts wouldn’t make your brain hurt because wpbakery page builder is your greatest ally. fear not to enhance your selling spree by selling your services or products online. more info / download demo grab taxi | online taxi service wordpress theme knowing what your users need and want on your website is key to converting sales. grab taxi is a modern representative of filter and search form wordpress themes crafted with care. designed especially for taxi ordering company websites, it’s perfect for car rental service or car repair shop businesses. compatible with the cars search plugin, it allows you to display your car directory the way it sparks attention. a set of awesome gallery layouts can help display your best projects or services in a more appealing way. indeed, enjoy your website across all modern devices and platforms. at the end of the day, you’ll see that grab taxi is the investment you don’t want to miss. hit details button to learn more. more info / download demo parkivia | auto parking & car maintenance wordpress theme are you an owner of a car maintenance service? then you definitely need to build a modern website to get noticed by as many potential customers as possible. parkivia could be your safe bet once you decide to pick the win-win solution that would serve you best. the best thing is that it comes with advanced booked appointment functionality to help you manage your bookings online. apart from a set of pre-designed homepage styles, it comes with the galore of premade modules for a car wash, auto repair, and the like. besides, it’s seo optimized, so your website is more likely to appear top of the search engine results. at last, compatibility with mapplic plugin and a set of contact forms can help optimize your conversion rates big times. more info / download demo auto parts | car parts store & auto services wordpress theme looking to save time, invest in one of the best-selling filter and search form wordpress themes on the list. crafted for automotive websites, it fits all kinds of businesses related to vehicle maintenance or car sales. therefore, you can easily add an online store functionality to your website and start selling cars or spare parts in minutes. gdpr & gutenberg ready, auto parts is bang up to date no matter what. also, it’s easy to poke around theme settings to unlock the untapped potential of your website. so, create stunning galleries to showcase your projects or services in the most appealing way. promote your best-selling products or services through eye-catching sliders. no matter how skilled you are, let auto parts help you achieve your goals. more info / download demo budget cars | used car dealer & store wordpress theme budget cars is another attractive specimen of filter and search form wordpress themes for those in the car business. whether you need to build a website for a car dealer or a car store, budget cars fits right off the bat. jam-packed with a big number of handy features, it can help create a strong virtual presence business for less. take advantage of home sliders to showcase & promote your best-selling items. once you decide to display your content in awesome grids, the power of the essential grid plugin will help you out. don’t overwhelm the users with seemingly irrelevant results. instead, give them the freedom to narrow down the data by applying filtering options. so, how would you like to take budget cars forward? more info / download demo cars4rent | car rental & taxi service wordpress theme want to make sure that your visitors can find the type of car rental they’re looking for? then give cars4rent a check. jam-packed with a powerful search tool, it stands out from the other filter and search form wordpress themes on the list. besides, compatible with car rental system plugin, your catalog of vehicles is easy-to-navigate. sure, there’s nothing to stop you from getting creative with unique layouts and beautiful galleries. convert more of your visitors into customers by giving them the ability to browse your listings without wasting a lot of time. take care of the search usability of your website with cars4rent. more info / download demo getcab | online taxi service wordpress theme want that your homepage to display all the relevant information in one location? then you can’t definitely go wrong with getcab. stylish, powerful and responsive, it fits online taxi ordering, cab website or app right off. if you want to be sure that your taxi business runs smoothly, start it on the right foot. with the initial purpose to help your users make the deal, the request form with custom fields will do this job better than any other win-win tactics. indeed, responsive from the ground up, your website is easy to access from any type of modern device. ready to create an online taxi service website that’s highly focused on generating new leads? then, the time is now. more info / download demo good homes | a contemporary real estate wordpress theme for those into real estate, a solid responsive website is a key to win. if you’ll go for good holmes, you are indeed a person of excellent taste. stylish, modern and attractive, it fits all kinds of real estate websites straight off. so, whether you need a website for a broker bureau, vacation rental or real estate mortgage, good holmes is the solution. at this point, it features a detailed property filter system & advanced property search. without a doubt, it’s seo-friendly and responsive, so it’s easier to keep your rankings safe & sound. besides, it comes with the property compare system and other necessary options ensuring to compete effectively. take a look for yourself. you’ll be surprised by what good holmes can offer you. more info / download demo bugspatrol | pest control services wordpress theme no matter what niche you carve out, the better you present your products & services, the higher your conversion rate. despite of being one of the best filter and search form wordpress themes for pest control services, bugspatrol can be a huge help. so, don’t limit yourself with a set of premade layouts. show that you dare go outside the box and create as many new unique layouts as you need. forget about coding issues that make your brain hurt. never skip the possibility to build a modern website like a pro for less. besides, add an online store functionality to your website and maximize your selling potential. at last, if you value premium quality visuals, the abundance of theme options & great support, bugspatrol is worth the trouble. more info / download demo casamia | property rental wordpress theme it’s safe to say that casamia can be the best solution for you. why? well, because the interest you get will likely to beat out most of other filter and search form wordpress themes on the list. built for online property rental websites, it fits all kinds of web projects related to real estate. intuitive interface, tons of advanced tools, and a set of powerful options will stand you in good stead. besides, it features detailed property listing built with custom search form properties. sure thing, your website will adjust awesomely to all types of modern devices & platforms. the best thing is that you don’t need to deal with any website creation that is time-consuming & boring. more info / download demo estate | property sales & rental wordpress theme + rtl don’t miss out on the opportunity to enjoy one of the best-selling filter and search form wordpress themes out there. take your real estate business up a notch by making the best use of estate. fresh, attractive and responsive, it fits all modern real estate websites right off. no matter what niche you are in, let estate help you achieve your goals quicker. furthermore, it comes with the advanced search & filter system, a set of awesome web forms, the booked appointments functionality, and much more. additionally, to help you get started quicker, a set of premade modules & shortcodes allows you to skip a lot of the time-consuming developing process. yet, you can always get creative by creating your own layouts that spark attention. more info / download demo anderson | orthopedic clinic & medical center wordpress theme anderson is a perfect solution for any medical center or healthcare related businesses. at this point, it’s considered one of the best filter and search form wordpress themes that will serve you well. stop being just another one face in the crowd, instead catch every user’s eye with a modern website that converts leads. even if you’re just starting out and need literally everything, anderson can be a huge help. take advantage of its set of web forms every time you want to reach a larger audience. also, manage your bookings online without much hassle from your end. indeed, having the option to sell your products or services online is always a good thing. so, take care to make the best use of it. more info / download demo monyxi | cryptocurrency trading business coach wordpress theme show your financial expertise with monyxi. thus you can pave the way for your prominent business environment. built for financial & cryptocurrency websites, monyxi is a wp template you can’t pass on. jam-packed with the special crypto plugins made for ico and crypto shop, monyxi can save you the day. it’s easy to promote your crypto firm, sell your coins, and accept donations & payments both in real money and cryptocurrencies. apart from that, it features learnpress for online courses, bbpress for forums, and power charts lite for creating awesome charts. so, if you decide to beat the competition black & blue, monyxi is the solution. learn more of its key features right away. more info / download demo ozisti | a multi-concept woocommerce wordpress theme augmented reality store ready it doesn’t matter what niche you are in, your ultimate goal is the same – to make people visit your website. a website that has a hook to stand out and improves your conversion funnel. compatible with augmented reality option, ozisti stands out from the other filter and search form wordpress themes on the list. moreover, gdpr & gutenberg ready, it fits all kinds of online stores selling furniture, electronics, clothing or interior/exterior design items. also, it comes with 4 premade homepage styles to help get you started quicker. indeed, don’t shy away from starting your own business blog to tell all the bells & whistles of your brand. focus on how you can solve your users’ problems and chances are that they’ll vote for you with their money. more info / download demo hobo | digital nomad travel lifestyle blog wordpress theme every business is different but it all starts with design. give hobo a check. designed for lifestyle & travel blogs, it’s second to none for entertainment blogs & news portals. besides, elementor page builder is one of its perks allowing you to get creative with new unique layouts & less coding issues. to help you turn your joy for travel or healthy lifestyle into fuel for your success, tons of search & filter options will come to your aid. in addition, you get a set of pre-designed homepage designs, numerous beautiful blog layouts, and modules to get through that day job with ease. unlock your ecommerce opportunities with woocommerce plugin and don’t worry about a thing. so, ready to be the next one in your niche? more info / download demo great fishing | fishing and hunting wordpress theme to get an idea of why great fishing is one of the best filter and search form wordpress themes, let’s dive into its features. first, it’s responsive and seo-friendly, so your website has a higher chance to appear top of the search engine results. second, it’s woocommerce ready, so it can mean a huge boost in sales from day one. when it comes to customization options, there seems to be no end of the diversity of styles & options to play with. need to create more unique layouts to make sure that your website sparks attention? no problem, the power of wpbakery page builder is your greatest ally. now, go & poke around its set of custom shortcodes to help your site to stand out like a bolt out of the tropics. more info / download demo yacht rental | yacht and boat rental service wordpress theme create a modern website that reflects your brand with yacht rental. modern, alluring and fresh, it fits all kinds of yachts business & boats rental services. to help get you started, a set of premade pages & modules comes included in yacht rental. looking for ways to beat the competition, eye-catching home sliders & outstanding galleries of your boats and yachts can do the trick. besides, being wpml ready, your website is open up to a new market, so it can mean a conversion rate. indeed, responsive from the ground up, your website adapts to all modern screen sizes of all last-generation devices. more info / download demo kingler | weapon store & gun training wordpress theme looking for the best-selling specimen of filter and search form wordpress themes out there? end your search here. kingler is your chance to show off. stylish, responsive and powerful, it fits all kinds of online stores selling the weapon, military accessories or hunting equipment. the thing is that it comes with a huge number of awesome product filters to make it easy for your users to find what they’re looking for. apart from that, it features event calendar management, gun training classes, and tons of premade layout styles. so, treat yourself to the premium quality visuals and advanced theme features to make a compelling case even with a skill gap. more info / download demo honor | shooting club & weapon store wordpress theme how about a win-win solution that can ease your developing pain points from day one? give honor a try. developed for online stores selling shooting guns & accessories, honor stands out from the other filter and search form wordpress themes for a reason. built with wpbakery page builder, it puts the power into your hands to get creative with your own new unique layouts even with a skill gap. do it right and you’ll skip a lot of the time-consuming developing work from fact. also, start your own blog to tell why to choose your offerings over the competitors. it’s your chance to promote your brand and show upcoming events or news interested to your visitors. all in all, it never hurts to take a chance. more info / download demo hotlock | locksmith & security systems wordpress theme lovers of go-to tools take note, hotlock should be high on your list. why? well, gdpr & gutenberg ready, it ensures your website is bang up to date no matter what. besides, crafted with care, it fits all kinds of businesses providing locksmith services. say, if you need a website for an online store selling locks & security systems, hotlock is your surefire way. versatile and user friendly, it can help keep you at the top of your game. event with less coding skills, you get everything you need at your fingertips. indeed, you can easily add an online store functionality and make it big in sales without much hassle from your end. now, explore the power of other key features that are always at hand. more info / download demo snow mountain | ski resort & snowboard school wordpress theme face it, your website is the first thing your prospects want to explore before voting for you. so, it’s in your own interest to make sure your competitors pale in comparison to yours. looking for ways to attract high-value customers? snow mountain can help cover the void. for that reason, it comes with a huge selection of advanced web forms, the booked appointment functionality & woocommerce integration. to help differentiate your website form its competitors, tons of custom shortcodes can make every page worth the visit. showcase your best-selling items or services through eye-catching home sliders & galleries. quite frankly, you’ll be impressed by what snow mountain can offer you. more info / download demo terra atma | spa & massage salon wordpress theme with terra atma, it’s easy to create a sense of urgency & desire for your users to visit your spa salon. what’s the real world benefit, you ask? well, first of all, it’s your chance to build a website with no more coding issues. don’t simply tell your prospects why they should visit your beauty salon, show them. create stunning galleries of the services you provide to show the real interest. considering that the online world today is changing, having the options to sell your products or services online is a must. so, stay abreast of the times to help solve a need your customers have. get completely tuned up with this premium specimen of filter and search form wordpress themes on the list. or else, there’s a lot at stake. more info / download demo the best thing about premium filter and search form wordpress themes fancy it? it’s time to make sure that competitors don’t step on your toes. at least one of these filter and search form wordpress themes above can help you get more visitors flocking to your site. there’s no excuse for being busy or non-tech-savvy. if you are about to be a cut about the rest, the time is now. build your own modern website like a pro and skip tons of the time-consuming developing work right from the start. don’t stop, just show your expertise to get noticed. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. bookingonline formsregistration formssignup formsthemerexwordpress themes share this share tweet pin it share julia starlark julia is a creative writer at themerex, she's in love with wordpress themes and knows how to pick the best design for any niche and purpose. related posts 22 best interior design wordpress themes that will boost your creativity 2020 how nice it is to live in a cozy, professionally decorated and elegantly furnished apartment.… 2019 best booking wordpress themes to inspire users to book face it, times when people used phone books to find a business is gone. and… 20 beneficial eye-candy sweet shop and restaurant themes for 2019 some say that we eat with our eyes. this expression holds true as even if… 12 best free church wordpress themes 2020 the internet has become an influential tool across the world. people often look for brands… 24 best travel magazine themes for travel reviews, news and guides 2020 life is a wonderful gift. though you have ups and downs, you ought to enjoy… 11 best martial arts wordpress themes 2020 a comprehensive list of the best martial arts wordpress themes for any kind of website… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 10 best minimalist and easy-to-use wordpress themes for starters 2019 next post: inspiring modern church wordpress themes 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×