main navigation wordpress.com products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips unlimited wordpress plugins. unlimited potential. no matter what kind of site you’re building, wordpress.com has a solution for everyone. get started a better wordpress, powered by jetpack. not ready to install plugins? not sure what you need? no problem. when you sign up for wordpress.com, you automatically get access to the most popular, powerful, and functional wordpress features available via jetpack. monitor your site’s performance with stats, optimize for search engines with wordpress essential seo tools, or scan for spam and security threats — all without the hassles of plugin installation and maintenance. learn more about included features › stats essential seo spam protection security scanning backups contact forms advanced galleries related posts email subscriptions media embeds get started choose from thousands of custom plugins with wordpress.com business, you can install any of the thousands of free plugins available. add a store with woocommerce, try advanced seo strategies with yoast, or support multiple languages with polylang. with unlimited wordpress plugins, you can build anything you can imagine, and customize it to meet your specific needs. learn more about wordpress.com business › get started bring the power of jetpack to your favorite host the performance monitoring, social sharing, seo, and other features that come baked into wordpress.com are available to everyone. if you’re using wordpress with another host, you can get these same features simply by installing jetpack. jetpack is your all-in-one wordpress toolkit for hassle-free design, marketing, and security. whether you’re building your site with wordpress.com or creating it on your own server, jetpack gives you the tools you need to succeed — all in one place. learn more about jetpack › install jetpack choose your plan premium $8 per month, billed yearly best for bloggers: build a unique website with advanced design tools, css editing, lots of space for audio and video, google analytics support, and the ability to monetize your site with ads. start with premium business $25 per month, billed yearly best for small business: power your business website with custom plugins and themes, unlimited premium and business theme templates, 200 gb storage, and the ability to remove wordpress.com branding. start with business jetpack $0-25 per month, billed yearly best for wordpress experts: purchase your own server space from one of our recommended hosts. install the jetpack plugin and bring the power of wordpress.com to your self-hosted site. start with jetpack this option requires the purchase of hosting and the free software from jetpack.com. learn more about the difference between wordpress.com and wordpress.org. build exactly the kind of site you need with powerful, flexible wordpress plugins. create your website themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo