millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes premarket trading: the complete guide for traders (2020) home » blog » basics » premarket trading: the complete guide for traders (2020) by timothy sykes last updated on january 10, 2020 the early bird gets the worm … so by that logic, premarket trading is where you’ll find the best opportunities, right? well … not quite. but premarket trading can be useful in certain situations. most people think of the stock market as a strict 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m. affair. however, there are some important moves that happen before the regular market hours. it’s possible to execute trades during this time — it’s called premarket trading. but be warned: premarket trading is not for the faint of heart. it’s usually volatile, and the risk level can be higher than during regular trading hours. however, sometimes big moves happen in premarket hours that can create compelling opportunities. it’s worth taking the time and effort to understand premarket trading. here, i’ll explain what it is, how it works, and some of the risks and considerations you should keep in mind when trading during the off-hours. table of contents 1 what is premarket trading? 2 premarket trading hours 2.1 who can trade pre-market? 3 how can you buy premarket stock? 4 uses for premarket trading 5 benefits of premarket trading 5.1 premarket movers: their influence 6 risks of premarket trading 6.1 trading premarket vs. standard market hours 6.2 trading premarket vs. after hours 7 understanding premarket activity 8 characteristics of premarket movers 9 example of premarket trading 10 premarket trading techniques 10.1 earnings releases 10.2 economic indicators 10.2.1 leading indicators 10.2.2 coincident indicators 10.2.3 lagging indicators 10.3 headline news 10.4 e-mini futures cues 10.5 watch the premarket spread 11 premarket trading tips 11.1 understand the market’s mood and trade appropriately 11.2 unless there’s news, wait for regular market hours 11.3 use direct access brokers 11.4 think about sympathy sell-offs 11.5 premarket charting 11.6 have an effective trading technique in place 11.7 avoid overleveraging 11.8 look for forced liquidations on margin calls 11.9 watch for stock halts 11.10 trading challenge 12 should you consider premarket trading? what is premarket trading? © 2020 millionaire media, llc premarket trading refers to activity in the stock market that happens before the regular market session opens. the stocks that move before the market opens for the day are sometimes called premarket movers. premarket trading hours © 2020 millionaire media, llc premarket trading occurs in the period before the regular market open at 9:30 a.m. eastern. premarket trading sessions go from 4 a.m. to 9:30 a.m. but that doesn’t necessarily mean that you can execute during these hours. who can trade pre-market? premarket trading is more common for bigger investors, but it can be accessible to individual traders like you and me, too. however, it doesn’t work exactly the same as trading during regular market hours. how can you buy premarket stock? © 2020 millionaire media, llc lots of brokers count premarket trading among their offerings. but different brokers may have different rules or available times for premarket trading. so if you’re interested in trading in the early hours, be sure to check your broker’s policies (and fee schedule, while you’re at it) for premarket trading. for instance, even though premarket trading starts at 4 a.m., your broker might only offer premarket trading from 6–9:30 a.m. the style and how premarket trades are executed can also vary depending on the broker. some brokers, especially the big ones, typically tend to just stick to their regular commissions for these premarket trades. but there are some exceptions… always read the fine print. some brokerages have special fees or a surcharge during these times. sometimes it can be a per-share fee … and that can add up. your broker’s specific policy should be fairly easy to find either on their website or by contacting their customer service department. uses for premarket trading evaluating premarket movers can help you analyze which stocks are active in the market in the hours before the trading day begins. this can provide opportunities beyond simply picking stocks to trade. looking at these movers can help you gain insight into what’s happening in the market at large. benefits of premarket trading © 2020 millionaire media, llc premarket movers can have a big influence on the trading day. even if you don’t intend to do any premarket trading, there are plenty of benefits to looking at what happens in the premarket. premarket movers: their influence here’s an example of how premarket trading could prove beneficial to you as a trader. say you notice that there’s a lot of movement in stocks offered by companies within a particular industry. this could tip you off to a big catalyst that could have greater ripples in the market once regular trading begins. you can pick up on momentum-inspiring company news, mergers, or earnings reports that could affect the overall market. so yes, a premarket mover can influence your specific stock picks. but in a bigger way, it can also offer some great information about hot sectors, industries, and the direction of the economy. so even if you have no desire to trade in the premarket hours, it can still be worth your time to see what premarket movers are doing. risks of premarket trading © 2020 millionaire media, llc trading premarket isn’t the same as trading during regular market hours. to better understand the risks, let’s take a minute to further discuss… trading premarket vs. standard market hours i’ll just put it out there: premarket trading can be a lot more complicated than regular market hours. for one thing, there can be different limits and fees associated with premarket trading. that all depends on your broker. for another, there’s a higher level of volatility and risk associated with premarket trading. that’s because there aren’t as many checks and balances (the presence of market movers, volume, etc). trading during market hours is obviously ideal. that’s when you typically see the most activity and get a better idea of what’s going on with the stock by charting its movements. trading premarket vs. after hours basically, the difference is just what it sounds like. premarket trading occurs in the morning hours before the markets open. after-hours trading occurs during the hours after the markets close, usually 4–8 p.m. again, you gotta check with your broker to see the exact hours available to you. like with premarket trading, after-hours trading may be subject to some limits and a different fee schedule. bottom line: do what the sec suggests and read all disclosure documents before proceeding. is one is safer than the other? not necessarily. both pre- and post-market trading can be illiquid, making for potentially wide spreads and volatility. understanding premarket activity © 2020 millionaire media, llc how can you get a handle on what’s going on in the premarket? here are some proactive steps and helpful tips for actions you can take: keep up with the news. be sure to look for news that could affect open positions. upgrades, downgrades, and other stories that can move stocks can help you discover opportunities for the upcoming session as well as in the premarket. look at index futures. be sure to look at the overnight session highs and lows as reported on the russell 2000 index futures, s&p 500, and nasdaq 100. this is important because it creates support and resistance during the regular market hours. consider macro forces. consider what’s moving macros, economically speaking. news items are the big catalyst here. see what’s been moving the world markets and think about how it could impact the u.s. session. for example: news regarding a central bank or a big economic-data item could make for premarket movement. keep track of other traders. you can scan premarket securities by volume on a platform like stockstotrade to get an idea of where other traders are putting their money. you can then cross-reference this information by looking for catalysts that could be causing the activity. check levels on open positions. levels matter when analyzing premarket trading. check out the key levels on open positions. watch for index futures, especially after big economic data releases. this can precede breakouts or breakdowns in the normal trading hours. consider the timing. take into consideration the time of year, the month, and even the day in question. the season, the proximity to a holiday, the release of earnings reports, and so many things can play into a stock’s performance. look and project. look at the closing numbers and the anticipated opening numbers for a given stock. this can help you get an idea of who stands to benefit. consider the algos. algorithmic trading is a big topic for another day. but in short, it’s about how algorithms can push securities to move and temporarily blow up or deflate prices. the big question: can these dips potentially create opportunities? don’t be swayed. even if you see a stock going extremely red or green the premarket, it may not matter. you still need to research expectations for the stock. characteristics of premarket movers what should you look for to determine if it’s a serious premarket mover? here are a few key characteristics: stocks that have higher price gaps based on the previous day’s market close stocks that have noteworthy price drops stocks with high volume (most actively traded) example of premarket trading © 2020 millionaire media, llc let’s look at how premarket trading might play out in a hypothetical scenario. say you consider $25 the strike zone for a particular stock, and it drops to $20 in the premarket hours. it could be right back at or above $25 when the market re-opens. also suppose that you catch wind of a positive catalyst — like a big, juicy news item or a stellar earnings report. in this case, the stock might be a compelling pick during the premarket session so that you could lock in that price. premarket trading techniques © 2020 millionaire media, llc curious about testing the waters yourself? here are some important things to consider and techniques that traders use to find premarket opportunities. earnings releases earnings season and its resulting earnings breakouts make for some of the most important times of year for stock movement. this is when companies release their quarterly earnings reports. it commences shortly after the close of the quarter. so, earnings season happens every year in january, april, july, and october. earnings season can be a huge catalyst for stock movement, particularly if a stock has overshot or undershot analyst expectations. since many earnings reports are released either right before the market open or right after its close, earnings releases can cause some big pre- and post-market moves. economic indicators economic indicators are statistics that can help you see the overall direction of the economy. here are some key ones to think about when considering premarket trading. leading indicators these might include big contracts, a change in the formation of a business, or the share price. coincident indicators these might include gdp (gross domestic product), retail sales, and the employment rate. lagging indicators these might include gnp (gross national product), interest rates, or the consumer price index. they’re called “lagging” because they’re only obvious in hindsight after related activity in the economy. they can also be big drivers of the price action during premarket hours. many economic releases are issued at about 8:30 a.m., one hour before the markets open. this means that there can be a big reaction to data that can move prices and affect them for the day. for example, the bureau of labor statistics (bls) releases the employment situation summary at 8:30 a.m. this can have a big effect on the stock market, in terms of the gdr, retailer stocks, and so on. headline news this is news that can move the market, big time. and the news doesn’t adhere to specific hours. premarket trading can be a way to get your edge as a trader, jumping in on a stock in reaction to news releases. however, this comes with a caveat. the low volume in the premarket can give a false indication of the worth of the stock. so you might not get an accurate enough idea of the price. for this reason, the news has to be really strong to potentially warrant premarket trading. e-mini futures cues e-mini futures are futures that are electronically traded on the chicago mercantile exchange (cme). they represent a small portion of a futures contract value. after being introduced on the cme in 1997, the e-mini became popular because it made futures trading accessible to a wide variety of traders. today, e-mini contracts can be traded on a variety of indexes, including the nasdaq 100 and the s&p 500. but here’s what matters in the premarket session: the e-mini s&p 500 trades 24 hours a day. this futures market can often give signs of how the regular market might go throughout the day, so it’s sometimes like getting a preview. since some traders follow the futures market closely during premarket hours, this could provide trading opportunities. to learn more about futures, check out this post. watch the premarket spread mind the spread! in the premarket, the volume and liquidity are limited, which makes the bid-ask spreads bigger than usual. wait, what’s a bid-ask spread? that’s the difference between the bid price and the ask price. the spread is based on supply (aka “float”), demand, and the stock’s trading activity. so since you’re removing the latter two from the circulation in premarket trading, the former will likely be more pronounced. premarket trading tips © 2020 millionaire media, llc if you’re thinking of trying premarket trading, make sure you first learn a ton about the process. these guidelines have been helpful for my trading … but they’re just that: guidelines. always do your own research before making trades. do your due diligence. and remember that all trading is risky. understand the market’s mood and trade appropriately listen to the market and trade based on what it’s telling you right now. after-hours and premarket sessions are mostly made up of professionals. for individual traders, it’s generally not the most welcoming place. low volume and high volatility abound — and it can be extremely difficult to determine entry and exit points. for example: one big buy could have a major impact on the stock’s price … and leave you regretting making a trade outside of regular market hours. unless there’s news, wait for regular market hours liquidity issues, bigger spreads, fewer players in the game … if premarket trading is a party, you can probably see why not too many people show up. for many, there’s not much of a benefit to trading in the premarket hours. this is part of the reason why the premarket often begins as late as 8 a.m with some brokers. this is when the volume often gains momentum and we can begin to see more direct results of the news (or rumored news). even in such situations, it might still be wise to wait until the market opens or slightly after. yes, premarket trading exists for a reason, but unless there’s a really compelling reason to jump in early, don’t. use direct access brokers direct access brokers allow you to execute orders through ecn exchanges. ecns, or electronic communications networks, are a type of alternate trading system (ats) where listed stocks and exchange-traded products can be traded. these advanced trading platforms could give you better speed, access, and execution — so if you want to trade premarket frequently, they could be worth checking out. think about sympathy sell-offs sympathy sell-offs are a phenomenon that happens when a company experiences a mass sell-off based on something that’s happening in the industry. for instance, one stock might have a reduced price because of a bad news catalyst. this could, in turn, cause the stocks of its competitors to go down as well … just because of the association with the industry. this is definitely something to watch for and be aware of in premarket trading. watch what traders do and say to help you get a better idea of whether it’s really a hot stock or just hype. premarket charting just like during regular trading hours, reviewing charts is vital to helping you analyze premarket trades. a platform like stockstotrade gives you the opportunity to create premarket scans. first, you want to learn who the premarket movers are. then, you can filter them by volume. this can help you decide where to focus your attention. beware! just because a stock has movement doesn’t necessarily mean you should trade it. it should be used more as an indicator, acting as just one piece of your research in figuring out if a stock is worth your time and effort. it’s even more important during premarket than regular market hours to take the news into account. since a big catalyst is usually what precipitates a premarket trade, be sure to look at that before formulating your trading plan. have an effective trading technique in place it’s always important to have a trading plan in place … it can help you keep your emotions in check and prevent you from doing anything dumb. with premarket trading, it’s even more critical. the stakes can be much higher, so impulsive or emotional decisions can result in bigger losses. know your trading strategy and have a specific plan for your entry and exit. have stops in place. stick to your plan! avoid overleveraging it can be tempting to load up on stocks in the premarket. i don’t like leverage. i think it’s an invitation to blow up your account. if you must, be very cautious with your margin, and avoid trading in the same quantities that you might handle during regular trading hours. remember: premarket is different. if and when momentum shifts, the liquidity can change in an instant, because the market isn’t humming along to keep prices more stable. look for forced liquidations on margin calls it’s not uncommon for a broker to make adjustments to margin requirements based on a stock’s volatility. this can land traders in potentially bad positions when the market opens. if they’re overleveraged and the margin changes, they might face an unexpected liquidation. don’t let it happen to you. watch for stock halts a trading halt is a temporary halt on trading, either in one exchange or across the board in several exchanges at once. usually, trading halts happen for a few reasons, including the anticipation of news announcements, regulatory issues, or due to the need to correct order imbalances. if a trading halt occurs, orders could be canceled. because of this, it’s always important to check if a stock is emerging from a halt. it’s worth the small amount of time required to find out if there’s a halt, especially if the news or catalyst isn’t strong. trading challenge the best way to avoid making mistakes in the premarket … and any market? prepare. the best way to improve your odds in any trade is to invest in your education. you’ll be more likely to make smart decisions with your trades. ready to start investing in your education? consider my trading challenge. it’s not for just anyone — you have to apply and be accepted. i’m only interested in students who are committed to attaining their goals. you must be willing to study and work hard. i created the challenge based on what i’ve learned in the past two decades in the stock market. i’ve got a huge library of videos, webinars, and live trading webcasts … and i publicly post every trade i make. i want to teach you how to understand the market so that you can become a self-sufficient trader who can adapt to any market conditions. ready to join? apply for my trading challenge today. should you consider premarket trading? © 2020 millionaire media, llc premarket trading can create opportunities for traders, but it comes with significant risk. given the many unknowns with premarket trading, it’s not generally a technique that’s suitable for new traders. however, this doesn’t mean that you can’t still potentially benefit from premarket trading… the knowledge you can gain about the market during this time can help you build your trading plan ahead of the curve — so when the market opens, you’re ready to rock. what do you think? how do you keep track of premarket activity? leave a comment! share how much has this post helped you? (29 votes, average: 4.62 out of 5) loading... about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more comments (8) january 10, 2020 at 12:36 pm timothy sykes hey everyone, as many of you already know i grew up in a middle class family and didn't have many luxuries. but through trading i was able to change my circumstances --not just for me -- but for my parents as well. i now want to help you and thousands of other people from all around the world achieve similar results! which is why i've launched my trading challenge. i’m extremely determined to create a millionaire trader out of one my students and hopefully it will be you. so when you get a chance make sure you check it out. ps: don't forget to check out my free penny stock guide, it will teach you everything you need to know about trading. :) september 3, 2018 at 10:06 pm dean hiser tim, thank you so much for this information. i believe that it will be very profitable. reply september 4, 2018 at 3:47 am petar maksimov thank you reply september 5, 2018 at 3:17 pm diane david thanks. reply december 26, 2018 at 3:48 am jason thanks for the information and i always read your stuff cause i know it’s the best knowledge out there..thanks tim reply march 26, 2019 at 6:40 am anonymous thanks tim reply june 23, 2019 at 4:49 am artiom zayanchkovski thank you, tim! reply july 7, 2019 at 10:02 pm flora jean weiss this was very good to read. i am looking at the post and pre-market and this answered a number of the questions i had about it. it made me wonder why it had flat spots and then long red or green candles. it’s good to know what to study and analyse when check out the pre and post market. thank you. reply leave a reply cancel reply about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖