wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ premium wordpress plugins we make the best premium wordpress plugins to help small businesses grow and compete with the big guys (easy and powerful). 9 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 over 9 million active installs and growing... optinmonster convert visitors into subscribers. optinmonster is the best wordpress popup and lead-generation plugin. + download optinmonster » learn more about optinmonster » wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder. wpforms is the best wordpress contact form plugin. + download wpforms » learn more about wpforms » monsterinsights monsterinsights is the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. it is used by over 2 million websites. + download monsterinsights » learn more about monsterinsights » seedprod seedprod is the best coming soon & maintenance mode plugin for wordpress, used by over 800,000 websites. + download seedprod » learn more about seedprod » rafflepress unlock viral traffic growth. rafflepress is the best wordpress giveaway and contest plugin in the market. + download rafflepress » learn more about rafflepress » why use our premium wordpress plugins? at wpbeginner our goal is to level the playing field for small businesses, so they can grow and compete with the big guys. we do this by focusing on three key areas: tools, teams, and training. tools – we build extremely powerful tools that are affordable and easy to use to help level the playing field. teams – we offer world class support from real people. our team members go the last mile to ensure our customers’ success every day. training – we offer in-depth training and tutorials to help small businesses get maximum roi from their online presence. all of our premium wordpress plugins were built because we needed it for our own business. this gives us a unique advantage compared to other premium wordpress plugins in the industry. below are the key benefits of using our premium wordpress plugins: easy to use – we build our plugins from a users-first mindset. this is why our plugins are the easiest to use. quality code – we have some of the best wordpress developers in the world working in our team to ensure superior code quality. performance optimized – we pay extra attention to website speed. our plugins are the fastest in their categories. what are you waiting for? go ahead try out our premium wordpress plugins to grow your business. you may also want to check out our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.