transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support press advisories/releases media contact: +1 212-358-0071 // sftmedia@studentsforafreetibet.org 1 2 3 4 next » us senator marsha blackburn unveils confucius institute legislation march 13, 2020 in press advisories/releases the legislation would require greater transparency from american universities that host confucius institutes on thursday, march 12, 2020, us senator marsha blackburn, along with four co-sponsors (senators hawley, cotton, r. scott, and lankford) introduced the ‘‘transparency for confucius institutes’’ act. this legislation,... read more over a thousand tibetans and supporters in nyc march for freedom in tibet march 11, 2020 in press advisories/releases to commemorate the 61st anniversary of tibetan national uprising day, tibetans and allies protested at the un and chinese consulate on tuesday, march 10th, over a thousand tibetans and tibet-allies gathered at the united nations to commemorate the 61st anniversary of march... read more 40% of shareholders defy apple management in vote on china cyber surveillance february 27, 2020 in press advisories/releases today, 40.6% of apple shareholders voted in favour of policies to uphold and promote freedom of expression at the company’s shareholder meeting. the proposal was put forward by shareholders on behalf of consumer advocacy group sumofus. if it had passed, it would... read more tibet activists in new york stage in-store protest at apple’s flagship in manhattan ahead of apple’s annual shareholder meeting february 27, 2020 in press advisories/releases [new york] ahead of apple’s annual shareholder meeting, seven tibet activists—including a tibetan monk—staged a dramatic “alarm: stop apple censorship” protest at apple’s flagship store in new york. the action was in solidarity with human rights and freedom of expression advocates urging... read more tibet activists protest chinese consulate tibet exhibit at the queens public library february 15, 2020 in press advisories/releases call on the queens library to reject china’s propaganda and stand up for the tibetan community new york — after meeting with the queens public library (qpl) on friday the 14th of february, students for a free tibet was informed that qpl... read more sham trial against tibetan a-nya sengdra exposes china’s continued crackdown in tibet december 6, 2019 in press advisories/releases [london] the seven-year prison sentence against tibetan nomad and environment activist a-nya sengdra for “gathering people to disturb public order” and “picking quarrels and provoking trouble” highlights the chinese authorities’ unyielding assault on the rights of the tibetan people to defend their... read more 1 2 3 4 next » students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×