skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me press *are you interested in working together? i am available for making videos, hosting interviews, brand collaborations, snapchat takeovers, social media sponsorships and more. please see my work with me page* my travel knowledge, writing and persona has been featured on hundreds of online publications, tv networks and print agencies (see list of all media features here). here are some of my most notable features: writing: i am a regular contributor to the huffington post, elite daily, u.s. news & travel, yahoo travel, thought catalog + more. brand collaborations: i have partnered with g adventures, gopro, allianz travel insurance, tripit, lonely planet, citizen watches, booking.com + more. tourism board collaborations: germany tourism, south korea tourism, visit california, visit florida, hilton head tourism, bolivia tourism, visit fiji, suriname tourism, mauritius tourism + more. on snapchat: i’ve done snapchat takeovers for: bleacher report, tripit, the infatuation, spoon tv, lonely planet, elite daily, yahoo travel + more. on print: i’ve had full length articles about my life story and travel tips in the arizona republic, so scottsdale magazine, among several others. tv segments: i have a weekly travel segment called travel fix with drew binsky that airs every thursday at 5 & 9pm on the cw33 news fix network (channel 33) in dallas, houston and miami. on each episode, i skype-in from wherever i am in the world to provide travel tips, insights and advice with their viewers. you can watch all of my previous episodes by clicking this link. i also had right this minute pick up one of my viral videos! tv interviews: i’ve been interviewed on the following tv networks: – ktla los angeles – fox 6 news wisconsin – news fix dallas – fox 10 news phoenix – az central – channel 12 news – abc news madison, wisconsin want to work with me? please see my work with me page for more information about how we can collaborate. don’t hesitate to contact me with your ideas! thank you. recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.