home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home press and media – kelly walsh and emergingedtech press and media – kelly walsh and emergingedtech i am so appreciative of these features and mentions across the web, and the opportunities they offer to inform and engage with other passionate professionals! for media resources (bio, pics, logo, etc.): scroll to bottom of page. thanks! nov 2019 emergingedtech at #1 in top 12 best education blogs for 2020 listing link: https://www.dialmycalls.com/blog/top-12-education-blogs-2020 june 2019 kelly walsh featured on “cio as an innovation leader” podcast on cio talk network i join steven a marks, cio at brooklyn law school, and dr. jonathan vester, vice president of technology and chief information officer at nash community college, for this podcast in which we take a deep dive into how cios help to drive innovation in their organizations. link: https://ciotalknetwork.com/cio-as-an-innovation-leader/ may 2019 kelly is included in the 2019 dean's list: 30 higher education technology influencers it's such an honor to be on this listing along so many other respected education and technology colleagues and organizations! link: https://edtechmagazine.com/higher/article/2019/05/2019-deans-list-edtechs-30-must-read-higher-education-it-influencers dec 2018 kelly is a guest on the top of mind podcast from the tambellini group in this podcast, i discuss how i extended myself beyond my primary role and plunged into social media, and started teaching, while developing emergingedtech to explore learning paired with technology and how it could impact student success. much thanks to analyst katelyn ilkani for this fun interview! the tambellini group is a leading market research and advisory firm for higher education. podcast link: https://www.thetambellinigroup.com/instructional-technology-and-student-success-a-rich-relationship/ aug 2018 featured guest on bryan alexander's future trends forum on thursday, august 2nd, it was my great pleasure to by the featured guest on bryan alexander's future trends forum. we had a lively discussion, exploring blended learning. we explored questions from session participants and bought a few folks up ‘on stage' to engage with us and the audience. july 2018 emergingedtech included in alberts top edtech blogs index this test prep course vendor compiled a list of top blogs in education and we were included! thanks ‘albert'! https://albert.io/blog/top-edtech-blogs/ mar 2018 should higher ed play a larger role in building digital media literacy and discussions? education dive wrote a piece sharing and elaborating on my march 2018 university business article. https://www.educationdive.com/news/should-higher-ed-play-a-larger-role-in-building-digital-media-literacy-and/518328/ sept 2017 emergingedtech included in “50 teacher blogs for professional tips …” list from shoutabout.org http://www.shoutabout.org/review/teacher-blogs-professional-tips-lessons/ july 2017 “15 lessons from the most social cios in higher education” on the huffington post extracted from the disrupttv interview (below) of paige francis, melissa woo, and myself. http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/15-lessons-from-the-most-social-cios-in-higher-education_us_59666c71e4b07b5e1d96ecb7 july 2017 kelly walsh interviewed on @disruptv, along with cios from stony brook university and the university of arkansas may 2017 emergingedtech at #5 in the “top 75 educational technology blogs” from feedspot http://blog.feedspot.com/educational_technology_blogs/ may 2017 emergingedtech included in “the 2017 dean’s list: edtech’s 50 must-read higher ed blogs“. thank you edtech magazine for including emergingedtech in your “tech gurus” section of this listing! https://edtechmagazine.com/higher/article/2017/05/2017-dean-s-list-edtech-s-50-must-read-higher-ed-blogs apr 2017 kelly walsh included in “top tech gadgets according to bloggers” article https://www.techisignals.com/top-tech-gadgets/ feb 2017 university business article: “blockchain can increase online trust of higher ed systems” this year, i'll be writing quarterly articles for university business magazine. here's my first one for 2017, focused on blockchain technology and the impact it can have on higher ed. [note: this work evolved into the ongoing feature, “technology perspective” on university business.] sept 2016 kelly walsh included in “top 100 educators leading flipped learning worldwide” it was really awesome to be included with all of these amazing practitioners and advocates of flipped learning! july 2016 emergingedtech included in “the best education blogs to follow” list the great folks at firstsiteguide have included emergingedtech.com as one of their top education blogs in this listing! very cool to be included in this short list along with long time favorites of mine like kathy schrock, coolcat teacher vicki davis, larry ferlazzo, and scott mcleod of “dangerously irrelevant”! june 2016 kelly walsh joins the evolving flipped learning network in the role of community administrator my school shared this news here, and the flipped learning network shared it in this post: welcome to the new flipped learning network. this was also covered in t.h.e. journal, in press releases, and elsewhere across the web. may 2016 livetiles article/interview it was a pleasure to work with the folks from microsoft livetiles on this interview-based article: 4 fascinating trends in education technology. “technology has made collaboration possible in ways far beyond our imaginations in the 20th century, and done so in ways that are often highly affordable.” may 2016 the 2016 dean's list: edtech’s 50 must-read higher ed it blogs “blogging about the hottest education technology issues, these admin all-stars, it gurus, education community experts and classroom leaders have proven their worth to their peers.” included in the “tech gurus” section, it's such a privilege to be included in this listing along with luminaries i admire, like bryan alexander and steven downes, and others i am new to and so glad to add to my personal learning network! much thanks to meg conlan for including emergingedtech in this powerhouse listing. apr 2016 top 100 social cios on huffington post for the fourth year running, kelly walsh has been cited as a “top social cios” listing on the huffington post! top 100 most social cios on twitter 2016 it's such an honor to be included with the amazing professionals on this list, including cios from schools like michigan state university, stony brook university, fairfield university, and harvard medical school, and organizations as diverse as accenture, coca cola, starbucks, the fcc, and the nfl. thanks “huffpo”! jan 2016 2016 education and technology outlook articles for university business and their k-12 sister magazine, district administration university business reached out and asked me to do a couple pieces on the outlook for teaching and technology in 2016. it was an exciting opportunity that i was totally up for! we did separate articles for k-12 and higher education: – here’s the higher ed article in the university business online magazine: “outlook on technology: learning shifts, infrastructure lifts” – and here's the k-12 article for in district administration: “outlook: classrooms get smarter” jan 2016 emergingedtech at #3 spot on “50 edtech, innovation in education and steam blogs that teachers need to bookmark“ forensicoutreach.com published a list of the top 50 blogs they think educators need to be aware of, and they listed emergingedtech at #3! we are so grateful for appreciation like this. forensic outreach is a fun site focused on the forensic sciences and is a lot of fun for nerds like me and other smart folks who can appreciate a wide variety of content with a “science-y” focus. stop by and check them out! dec 2015 technology in higher ed: from disenfranchising of “place” to dis-aggregation of the degree [interview with kelly] emantras has focused its initiatives on bringing learning to the 21st century, using technology to deliver and provide training, education, and work flow solutions to academic institutions and fortune 500 corporations. it was an honor and a pleasure to do this written interview with their blogging staff. i loved exploring the questions they posed, as we discussed the evolving state of instructional technology and learning accreditation in higher ed. july 2015 custom texting application helps college of westchester communicate with students campus technology published this article about the custom application my team developed at the school where i work as cio and teach as a member of faculty of administration. we're really proud of this award winning application! may 2015 who to follow in higher education the tribeca marketing group published this listing, “a who’s who of dynamic higher education industry members active on social media, ranging from associations to journalists to ceos.” emergingedtech was honored and privileged to appear at the top of the listing! thanks tmg! http://www.tribecamarketinggroup.com/tribecatrending/higher-ed-influencers/ march 2015 100 business, technology, and leadership lessons this article and the slide deck below was published march 12, 2015 (kelly walsh is featured on slide 55). on march 8, 2013, michael krigsman and vala afshar launched a weekly video series called cxo-talk. cxo-talk set the standard for thought-provoking enterprise video content. they have completed over 100 episodes with extraordinary startup founders, fortune 250 executives, including over 30 chief information officers (cios), chief marketing officers (cmos) and chief digital officers (cdos). the slideshare presentation features 116 executives from their first 100 episodes. accomplished and brilliant guests share their business, leadership and technology insights, each captured in a tweetable quote. the slides also each link to the blog summary of the interview and the full video conversation. january 2015 “100 most social cios on twitter 2015” on the huffington post vala afshar … “since i last published the most social cios of 2014 list , the role of the chief information officer in leading digital business transformation has become even more vital. championing adoption of new technologies requires cios to actively engage and communicate broadly. to stay informed, successful cios are leveraging social media as their personal learning networks. most of the innovative cios that i work with are expanding their capabilities, as well as their organizations by 1. independent research, 2. peer collaboration via social networks and forums, and 3. vendor and business partner engagements.” here is the 2015 edition of the top 100 most social cios (kelly is on slide 29): july 2014 “21st century edutech: an insightful discussion with kelly walsh” interview with ufaber.com this interview was a lot of fun – great questions from the folks at ufaber.com, a great source of online tech learning! march 2014 kelly walsh at #5 on top 100 social cios on twitter list published on the huffington post this listing covers all types of businesses and organizations (as opposed to the oct 2013 listing below which was focused on higher education only). this is quite an honor! october 2013 kelly walsh selected as the #3 on this list of top 50 most social cios in higher education, huffington post. october 2013 cio advice: social media improves the user experience. this huffington post article summarized 6 key insights from the interview phil komarny, stephen difilipo and i did after we were selected as the top 3 social cios in higher education. here is the complete video interview: summer 2013 video interview at ub tech 2013 kelly walsh discusses the evolving use of technology in education, the growing body of evidence proving that technologies can engage students and enhance learning outcomes, and more. may, 2013 “interactive whiteboards are front and center in college classrooms“ edtech magazine interview with philip charach from new york's touro college and kelly walsh from the college of westchester. may, 2013 jostle interviews kelly walsh for their social cio series: social cio series: kelly walsh, the college of westchester. media/press resources emergingedtech logo: png kelly walsh picture: jpg kelly walsh bio: word html leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©