/ mark frauenfelder / 10:42 am fri mar 27, 2020 president bolsonaro boasts that brazilians can bathe in excrement and not get sick follow us twitter / facebook / rss brazil’s president jair bolsonaro boasted that his citizens are immune to the coronavirus because they have the magical ability to wallow in human waste “and nothing happens,” reports the guardian. “they never catch anything. you see some bloke jumping into the sewage, he gets out, has a dive, right? and nothing happens to him,” he told reporters. unfortunately, bolsonaro's magical thinking appears to be immune to the wily virus: on thursday brazil’s health ministry said that its coronavirus death toll had risen to 77, up from 46 on tuesday. so far 2,915 cases have been confirmed. a report in the folha de são paulo, a leading brazilian broadsheet, suggested there had been a “vertiginous” rise in the number of people being admitted to hospital with severe respiratory failure since late february when the covid-19 case was detected. image: by marcelo camargo/agência brasil - http://agenciabrasil.ebc.com.br/politica/foto/2014-02/congresso-promulga-emenda-constitucional-77?id=78867, cc by 3.0 br, link share / tweet / 22 comments brazil / magical thinking get the boing boing newsletter trump met with brazil official who has coronavirus 📷 brazilian president jair bolsonaro’s communications secretary, fabio wajngarten [right] instagrammed this selfie of himself hanging out with trump and pence before he tested positive for coronavirus. bolsonaro’s press secretary hung out with trump and pence on saturday and today tested positive for coronavirus. u.s. president donald trump and vice president mike pence both met […] read the rest brazil's authoritarians charge glenn greenwald with cybercrime for publishing leaks that revealed corruption at the highest levels last june glenn greenwald and the intercept published and reported on a massive trove of explosive leaks that revealed that top prosecutors and the judge who eventually became the justice minister of brazil conspired to rig the corruption trial of the beloved and incredibly popular leader lula, sending him to prison as part of their […] read the rest brazilian authoritarian bolsonaro fires his culture minister for giving a speech plagiarized from joseph goebbels last week, roberto alvim, gave a speech in his capacity as brazil's culture minister: backed by a wagner aria, alvim gave a speech about reforming brazilian art that literally plagiarized the words of joseph goebbels, hitler's minister of propaganda. read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support