news politics world sport technology business money opinion obituaries travel culture lifestyle women family health and fitness fashion luxury cars free mobile app uk voucher codes us coupons jobs financial solutions rewards events dating offers shop garden shop bookshop tickets puzzles fantasy football fantasy rugby work at the telegraph telegraph corporate the telegraph coronavirus news politics sport business money opinion tech life style travel culture search icon subscribe now free for 30 days log in see all news uk news uk news home scotland wales northern ireland world news world news home usa europe middle east asia australasia africa latin america royals royals home the queen prince philip prince charles duchess of cornwall prince william duchess of cambridge prince harry duchess of sussex more... health defence science education investigations investigations home signals network contact us global health security global health security home climate & people science & disease terror & security women & girls opinion & analysis premium telegraph news president trump is right. upending the global economy to fight coronavirus has a dire human cost ross clark follow follow the author of this article ross clark follow the topics within this article donald trump coronavirus pandemics and epidemics 25 march 2020 • 4:05pm save save president trump speaks about the coronavirus in the james brady briefing room, monday, march 23, 2020, in washington credit: alex brandon /ap unemployment will itself cost lives. so, too, will social isolation the year 2020 has already brought many firsts: never before has the british population been confined to home, nor has a uk government previously offered to pay the wages of private sector staff. but here is another: it is the first time that donald trump has stood out as a rare voice of reason amid a cacophony of panic. at any other time, and coming from anyone else’s mouth, the statement “we cannot let the cure be worse than the problem itself,” would hardly raise an eyebrow. it is surely a principle which ought to be baked into all government policy. but, no, it aroused instant condemnation from the president’s critics. as for his hope that he could get the economy roaring again by easter, it led to an eruption from senators who appear to be enjoying the global emergency, are who have no doubt sensed that coronavirus could be the black swan event that succeeds where impeachment failed. sure enough, trump has not bathed himself in glory over coronavirus, foolishly calling it a ‘hoax’ at one point. but he is right to recognise that there is a balance to be struck between fighting the disease and maintaining a functioning economy. so far, much of the developed world has embarked on a course which pursues the former to the total exclusion of the latter. last week, our own government published a dossier of the modelling which has informed its policy on coronavirus. there was plenty of epidemiological evidence in there, yet not a single paper modelling the economic effects of a lockdown. it is merely assumed that what will almost certainly be a steeper decline in economic output than either the 2008/09 crisis or the great depression can be put right by oodles of public money, much of it printed by central banks. i am sceptical: what is this crisis going to do to the entrepreneurial spirit of millions who invested time and their life savings to set up businesses only to find them forcibly closed by the government? it is going to take a long time to recover that. the most foolish remark you hear made in these situations is "lives are too important for money". as trump quite rightly points out, unemployment will itself cost lives. so, too, will social isolation. there are 7.7 million britons who live alone, many of them elderly. there will be a serious cost to life now that enforced confinement will reduce them to the point of invisibility. in any other situation, the left would be jumping up every five minutes to claim that poverty costs lives. how often have we heard this fanciful figure that tory ‘austerity’ has cost 130,000 lives over the past decade? that is nothing compared with the toll we face from mass unemployment. philip thomas, professor of risk management at bristol university, calculates – in a study which has yet to be peer-reviewed – that if a lockdown causes the economy to shrink by more than 6.4 percent then the recession will have cost more lives than coronavirus itself. i would say a 6.4 percent shrinkage in gdp is on the seriously optimistic side. we don’t normally seem to have a problem balancing the needs of medicine with those of the economy. we could save lives by going into lockdown every winter – the us centers for disease control estimates that seasonal flu kills between 300,000 and 650,000 people annually. but we don’t because we know the economic havoc would be even worse. covid-19 is a serious disease, and one to which we began this year with no resistance. but its most damaging effect has been to destroy our ability to make a trade-off between medicine and the economy. related topics donald trump coronavirus pandemics and epidemics show more follow the telegraph facebook icon follow on facebook twitter icon follow on twitter instagram icon follow on instagram linkedin icon follow on linkedin show comments if you would like to add a comment, please register or log in register log in the telegraph values your comments but kindly requests all posts are on topic, constructive and respectful. read our community guidelines in full here. follow the telegraph facebook icon follow on facebook twitter icon follow on twitter instagram icon follow on instagram linkedin icon follow on linkedin news latest 27 mar 2020, 8:50pm live coronavirus latest news: uk deaths rise by 181 in 24 hours as boris johnson tests positive 27 mar 2020, 8:48pm public warned not to drive to countryside to exercise following confusion over policing of coronavirus lockdown premium gallery 27 mar 2020, 8:23pm gallery: telegraph cartoons – march 2020 premium 27 mar 2020, 8:07pm britons stranded in peru left in the dark about foreign office evacuation plans premium 27 mar 2020, 8:00pm royal mail deliveries under threat due to union dispute over posties' 'key worker' status premium 27 mar 2020, 8:00pm church of england launches first lgbti chaplaincy service to make christianity a 'safe space for all' premium 27 mar 2020, 8:00pm comment: staying at home is not enough to beat this virus juliet samuel premium 27 mar 2020, 7:26pm fears for europe's fresh food supply as border closures hit harvests premium 27 mar 2020, 7:22pm gatwick to close north terminal in attempt to 'shield business' from coronavirus downturn premium 27 mar 2020, 7:08pm new orleans coronavirus cases surge amid fears mardi gras fuelled spread premium 27 mar 2020, 7:00pm social distancing: new study suggests two metres is not enough premium 27 mar 2020, 6:58pm no 10 blames mix-up in communications for missing deadline to get extra ventilators in eu scheme premium 27 mar 2020, 6:33pm elderly people 'should talk to families about whether they want coronavirus treatment in hospital' premium 27 mar 2020, 6:24pm duchess of cornwall warns about dangers of domestic violence during covid-19 isolation premium 27 mar 2020, 6:13pm clap for our carers: meet the women behind the moment of national applause premium 27 mar 2020, 6:10pm doubts surface over chinese virus death toll after thousands of urns spotted in wuhan premium 27 mar 2020, 6:00pm comment: defeating coronavirus will be as much a pr battle as a global medical challenge alexandra phillips premium 27 mar 2020, 5:58pm nhs to build two more field hospitals and test its staff for coronavirus, chief executive announces premium 27 mar 2020, 5:54pm william, harry, and coronavirus: a tale of two royal brothers and their reactions to a crisis premium gallery 27 mar 2020, 5:52pm gallery: matt cartoons – march 2020 premium 27 mar 2020, 5:46pm why covid-19 has spread so fast in the us premium contact us about us rewards archive reader prints branded content syndication and commissioning guidelines privacy terms and conditions advertising terms fantasy sport uk voucher codes betting offers modern slavery © telegraph media group limited 2020 we've noticed you're adblocking. we rely on advertising to help fund our award-winning journalism. we urge you to turn off your ad blocker for the telegraph website so that you can continue to access our quality content in the future. thank you for your support. need help? visit our adblocking instructions page. close