skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports press side hustle nation was created by nick loper. (that handsome bald dude in the picture!) after experiencing the struggle and empowerment of building his own side hustle business, he’s on a mission to help people build their own income streams and amplify their earning power. contact info if you’re interested in contacting nick for media appearances or interviews, please send an email to nick@sidehustlenation.com. he’ll typically respond in one business day or less. nick is available to comment on: the state of the side hustle economy creative ways to make extra money the most popular side hustles common side hustle mistakes and anything else related to building extra income with limited time about nick nick loper’s entrepreneurial journey began at an early age — selling candy to his fellow boy scouts at summer camp, and eventually painting houses in college at the university of washington. after graduation though, he started side hustling in earnest. some small scale experiments in online advertising soon turned into a full-fledged comparison shopping site for footwear, which earned commission from zappos, amazon, and other online shoe sellers. three years of nights and weekends later, nick left his corporate gig to become a full-time entrepreneur. it was during this time that nick’s obsession with different business models and creative ways to make extra money really began. in 2013, he started side hustle nation and the side hustle show podcast to begin spreading the gospel of this lower-risk brand of entrepreneurship. through the blog and podcast, nick has helped thousands of readers and listeners earn more money and start businesses of their own. he lives in livermore, california with his wife, two sons, and mochi, the side hustle shih tzu. side hustle nation side hustle nation has been recognized by the plutus foundation as a 2-time winner of the best entrepreneurship blog. the site is read by 1.5 million visitors a year, and 30,000 listeners tune into the side hustle show each week. some of the most popular content includes: 99 side hustle ideas you can start today 200+ legit ways to make extra money 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that really work one of the most important pillars of side hustle nation is the community element, which is now more than 18,000 members strong on facebook. books nick is an amazon bestselling author, with titles including: the side hustle: how to turn your spare time into $1000 a month or more the progress journal: a simple daily planner to make meaningful progress on your most important work buy buttons: the fast-track strategy to make extra money and start a business in your spare time interviewer resources bio: nick loper helps people earn money outside of their day job. he’s an author, online entrepreneur, and host of the award winning side hustle show podcast, which features new part-time business ideas each week. as chief side hustler at sidehustlenation.com, he loves deconstructing the tactics and strategies behind building extra income streams. nick typically speaks to: the rise of the side hustle economy popular side hustle business models creative ways to make extra money the “dark side” of side hustling the importance of building income streams you control growing a blog and podcast audience ways to be more productive and find more time in your day nick tries to respond to all media inquiries promptly, but if you’re on a deadline, please make sure to say so in your email. selected media mentions and appearances tedx: the entrepreneurial generation radio and podcasts npr on point: the necessity of the millennial side hustle don’t keep your day job: how to grow your side hustle choosefi: finding your side hustle idea bigger pockets money: how anyone can easily make extra money print and magazines forbes: side hustle 101: how to get your gig off the ground entrepreneur: match your side hustle with how much free time you’ve got business insider: over 200 ways to make money in your spare time headshots and logo if you need an image for your story or website, feel free to use one of these below. clicking on the picture will open a higher resolution version. like that? there's more! join the 65,000 who get my best stuff via email i'll also send you my free guide: the 5 fastest ways to make more money. please enter your name. please enter a valid email address. i'm a hustler! you're in! make sure to check your email (including spam/promotions) for your free welcome gift. something went wrong. please check your entries and try again. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok