home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs popular posts how i kept my high efficiency washer mold free for 10+ years 71 practically free scrap wood projects how to make new wood look old, weathered and rustic 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors how to paint doors (the professional way) what no one will tell you about farmhouse sinks latest posts installing your own sprinkler system march 19, 2012 last week i shared with you how to grow a better lawn based on what i learned from my education at pennington seed. part of growing a more beautiful lawn is learning how to water it properly. did you … keep reading how to grow a better lawn – grass seeds do make the difference march 16, 2012 last week i flew to portland, or to get an education on grass seed at pennington seed. i learned a lot more than i ever imagined you could learn about those little seeds. i am so grateful for the … keep reading industrial work table with vintage dictionary top – guest post by hammer like a girl march 7, 2012 y'all are gonna love today's guest post! hammer like a girl is in the howzz! check out that industrial book page topped table that they created. today's guest post is brought to you by three handy … keep reading white-washed window box from a wine crate march 5, 2012 the other day i was wandering aimlessly shopping at costco and spied an empty wooden wine crate. the angel stamped on the side was beckoning me to take her home. actually, i read funky junk … keep reading « previous page 1 … 276 277 278 decorating diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail… diy house number planter box… faux blue bird eggs and nest… more decorating tutorials... plumbing plumbing fixes you can complete… perfect showerhead for a small shower… the app that saved my butt – diyz app review… more plumbing tutorials... electrical mid-century modern lighting options for… 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings… saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands… more electrical tutorials... recipes dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars… holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick… grilled corn pesto pizza… more recipes... painting & antiquing techniques how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray… how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting… rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle… more painting & antiquing tutorials... build it how to waterproof floors in any room tips & tricks to self-level a floor at millie’s remodel diy drawer in a drawer more build it tutorials... millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! how to protect your house from termites millie’s remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions more videos... hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok