home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs popular posts changing out a light fixture (bye-bye hollywood strip light) how to add molding panels to a flat door how to paint doors (the professional way) 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors 71 practically free scrap wood projects aging is so distressing – techniques for antiquing furniture latest posts diy floral spring wreath for your front door march 25, 2020 hello, pretty handy girl readers! i’m back today with a fun project for your front doors! this beautiful baby breath’s wreath - perfect for spring. i love making my own wreaths because i can … keep reading diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail march 18, 2020 this month i will teach you how to make this diy quote sign with a faux shiplap detail. it's a home décor sign with a quote that you can choose! quote signs are so popular right now and for good … keep reading 25+ art and craft boredom busters march 14, 2020 with the world looking at impending quarantine and school closures, i bet you're wondering how you'll keep boredom at bay. have no fear, i'm here to share a bunch of diy art and craft ideas you can do … keep reading diy house number planter box march 11, 2020 it's important to have house numbers displayed on your home, especially if emergency crews need to locate your house. today i'll show you how to build your own diy house number planter box. diy … keep reading 1 2 3 … 278 next page » decorating faux blue bird eggs and nest… mid-century modern lighting options for… millie’s remodel: kitchen design… more decorating tutorials... plumbing plumbing fixes you can complete… perfect showerhead for a small shower… the app that saved my butt – diyz app review… more plumbing tutorials... electrical 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings… saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands… how to install a usb charging outlet… more electrical tutorials... recipes dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars… holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick… grilled corn pesto pizza… more recipes... painting & antiquing techniques how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray… how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting… rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle… more painting & antiquing tutorials... build it how to waterproof floors in any room tips & tricks to self-level a floor at millie’s remodel diy drawer in a drawer more build it tutorials... millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! how to protect your house from termites millie’s remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions more videos... hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok