home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs popular posts 30 amazing diy decorative mirrors how to build a chunky x farmhouse table changing out a light fixture (bye-bye hollywood strip light) how to make new wood look old, weathered and rustic paint colors in my home 71 practically free scrap wood projects latest posts tips & tricks to self-level a floor at millie’s remodel february 21, 2020 after demolition, i realized several water leaks left some low spots in the kitchen floor at millie's remodel. today i’m going show you how to use self-leveler to fix a sagging floor. i’ll also show … keep reading diy drawer in a drawer february 19, 2020 have you ever wanted to maximize the space in one of your drawers? do you have a drawer that acts like a black hole? learn how to build a diy drawer in a drawer and watch your organizational dreams … keep reading introducing: kristen our newest contributing writer february 18, 2020 introducing: kristen our newest contributing writer it's been a while since we had a new face around here, which is why i'm really excited to introduce you to kristen from in her garage! she's … keep reading mid-century modern lighting options for millie’s remodel february 17, 2020 mid-century modern design is a trend that is sweeping the design world by storm. while researching lighting options for millie's remodel, i curated a list of possible light fixtures. here are some of … keep reading « previous page 1 2 3 4 5 … 278 next page » decorating diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail… diy house number planter box… faux blue bird eggs and nest… more decorating tutorials... plumbing plumbing fixes you can complete… perfect showerhead for a small shower… the app that saved my butt – diyz app review… more plumbing tutorials... electrical 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings… saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands… how to install a usb charging outlet… more electrical tutorials... recipes dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars… holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick… grilled corn pesto pizza… more recipes... painting & antiquing techniques how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray… how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting… rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle… more painting & antiquing tutorials... build it how to waterproof floors in any room diy reversible wooden sign how to build decorative gable attic vents more build it tutorials... millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! how to protect your house from termites millie’s remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions more videos... hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok