home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs popular posts changing out a light fixture (bye-bye hollywood strip light) how to add molding panels to a flat door building a window seat with storage in a bay window aging is so distressing – techniques for antiquing furniture what no one will tell you about farmhouse sinks how to create an inexpensive mulch and stone walkway latest posts 9 lasting alternatives to concrete walkways march 6, 2020 pathways around your home can be functional (protecting grass, your feet, or creating a smooth surface to walk on.) paths can be whimsical, natural, utilitarian or decorative. here are 9 lasting … keep reading how to waterproof floors in any room march 4, 2020 today we're prepping to tile in the kitchen and bathrooms. having seen firsthand how much damage water can cause to a home, i want to show you this tutorial for waterproofing floors in any … keep reading easy diy hand warmers you’ll want to take everywhere february 26, 2020 since most of us are in the full swing of winter, i thought hand warmers would be the perfect diy project for your weekend. learn how to make these easy diy hand warmers you'll want to take … keep reading faux blue bird eggs and nest february 24, 2020 can you think of anything more spring-like than a nest full of blue eggs? today i want to show you how to make faux blue speckled bird eggs and a nest! faux blue bird eggs and nest spring has … keep reading « previous page 1 2 3 4 … 278 next page » decorating diy quote sign with faux shiplap detail… diy house number planter box… mid-century modern lighting options for… more decorating tutorials... plumbing plumbing fixes you can complete… perfect showerhead for a small shower… the app that saved my butt – diyz app review… more plumbing tutorials... electrical 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings… saving etta: laundry room update and a no hands… how to install a usb charging outlet… more electrical tutorials... recipes dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars… holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick… grilled corn pesto pizza… more recipes... painting & antiquing techniques how to create a faux zinc texture (with spray… how to fake a fake pumpkin (faux painting… rustic wooden caddy with a branch handle… more painting & antiquing tutorials... build it tips & tricks to self-level a floor at millie’s remodel diy drawer in a drawer diy reversible wooden sign more build it tutorials... millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! how to protect your house from termites millie’s remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions more videos... hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok