skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download pricing tables for wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) by labib ahmed details reviews support development description pricing tables for wpbakery is a wpbakery page builder addon that will allow you to add simplest pricing tables to your site with few clicks and customizable options.you don’t need to use any html type thing to deal with this plugin.it is giving you full control to customize the things according to your need. it’s super easy to create pricing or compare tables with this addon. note: this plugin requires wpbakery page builder plugin. see demo here features 100% responsive custom column layouts custom content extenal linking on buttons custom headings customizable options animated 24/7 support reviews ok kousekmusic september 3, 2019 works, but i dont like default style presets. great tool nikolaj kruse may 12, 2019 helped me to add fully customizable and unique tables to client site. not the same as the demo adriannees march 25, 2019 two stars (rather than one) because the plugin does technically work, but the 5 styles the plugin comes with are 100% not the styles shown in the demo. to access any of those styles you must purchase the upgrade. the tables work fine - though you cannot see them in the wpbakery editor as far as i can tell if you are using the front-end editor, but the styles shown in the demo versus what comes with the plugin are night and day. the styles in this plugin are not as sophisticated as the demo styles, having spacing issues, and i wonder if they are really by the same author. overall disappointing and will be uninstalling. edit currency orlaryemy november 23, 2018 i cant seem to find where to change the currency fron usd to my local currency, can the developer explain please awesome..! vcaddon july 11, 2018 it was really simple and easy to setup and use. recommended. don’t waste your time fleetva june 13, 2018 once you activate the plugin and go to wpbakery to use the element, it is no where to be found. so, you can't use it. that's 5 mins i will never get back! read all 10 reviews contributors & developers “pricing tables for wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer)” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors labib ahmed translate “pricing tables for wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer)” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.0 initial release 1.1 added new features meta version: 1.3 last updated: 4 months ago active installations: 2,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.2.5 tags: pricing planspricing tablespricing tables for wpbakerypricing tables for wpbakery page builder advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 7 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 1 1 star 2 contributors labib ahmed support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.