skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download pricing table for wpbakery page builder by nasir details reviews installation support development description best pricing plugin for wpbakery page builder – wordpress plugin pricing tables for wpbakery is a page builder addon that will allow you to add simplest pricing tables to your site with few clicks and customizable options.you don’t need to use any html type thing to deal with this plugin.it is giving you full control to customize the things according to your need. wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin must be installed and activated to use this plugin. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. live demo | contact | support forum | update to pro features 100% responsive custom column layouts custom content extenal linking on buttons custom headings customizable options animated 24/7 support installation go to plugins in your dashboard and select ‘add new’. search for ‘price table for wpbakery page builder’ and install it. go to pages and create design with help of wpbakery page builder. fill some additional informations. now visit your site reviews works fine kousekmusic december 15, 2019 to me it works fine. thank you. it removes paragraph in all posts heathcliff2013 october 14, 2019 after disabling this plugin the problem is gone. simple and unique design nasir179125 july 5, 2018 love this plugin read all 3 reviews contributors & developers “pricing table for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors nasir179125 translate “pricing table for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.0 removes paragraph “p” tag in posts. 1.0 first version meta version: 2.0 last updated: 3 weeks ago active installations: 1,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.2.5 tags: pricing tablevisual composer advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 2 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 1 contributors nasir179125 support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.