skip to main | skip to sidebar priest with a cause a world of warcraft (classic) blog 19/03/2020 not uldaman likely i've mentioned on this blog repeatedly that uldaman is not one of my favourite instances. (i remember referring to it as "ul-damn" among my group of friends back in the day.) but as the saying goes: absence makes the heart grow fonder, and after giving my little nelf hunter a break from instancing for more than ten levels (yep, i didn't even bother with scarlet monastery this time), i was actually starting to look forward even to uldaman. it also helps that its proximity to ironforge makes it a significantly more attractive destination for alliance players than for horde. so when i saw someone lfm for uldaman the other night, i jumped right in despite of being very much on the lower end of the level curve for it at level 42. (the last boss, archaedas, is level 47.) imagine my surprise when i realised that actually, nobody in our group was higher than level 43. i was in fact the highest level damage dealer, with the others sitting at 41 and 39 (!) respectively. this is the sort of situation i think many people would have noped right out of, but i didn't mind because i was just happy to have got a group so quickly and i figured we'd just see how far we could get. it was around the area with the troggs that we started to feel the strain in the sense that our healer had to take a mana break after pretty much every pull... but both the tank and healer were very much on the ball and kept performing admirably under pressure. by the time we got to the stone constructs, things got really hairy as it has all these groups of one big elite and lots of weaker mobs and we didn't have any good aoe either (the other two dpsers were another hunter and a feral druid), so we had to slowly pick them off one at a time, putting even more strain on the tank and healer as every pull took for-freaking-ever. yet still we persevered, and nobody died. eventually we reached the last boss, who showed as red for everyone due to the immense level difference. thinking of the dps check involved to deal with the adds, i was not confident, even with the "pulling him to the upper level to slow the spawns" strategy, but we went ahead anyway, with both of us hunters being assigned to add killing to make up for the lower dps. (at level a single dps is usually enough to deal with them.) and it was... epic! so much so that i felt the need to make a little video about it: in a nutshell, the fight took about five minutes, as we plinked away at archie's health really slowly (in the video i fast forwarded through the boring bit). near the end when the two big adds came in everything went a bit manic and people started dying, but the tank and i managed to finish off the boss together, which fortunately caused the last adds to despawn. happy days! i'll certainly think twice before considering someone "too low" for uldaman next time... 5 comments tags: instances, pugs, uldaman, videos, wow classic 12/03/2020 level 40 the 3rd well, who saw that coming? i certainly wouldn't have guessed, looking at my roster at the beginning of the year, that my third character to level 40 would be a brand new nelf hunter, but here we are. i'm just enjoying the solo experience as a hunter way too much, and playing as alliance feels refreshingly different after focusing on horde side for months. i even remembered to take a ding shot: this one doesn't have the money to buy a mount yet, but i decided not to fret about it this time. so instead of proudly showing off my new ride, have some random screenshots i took while levelling on alliance side: the very first screenshot i took of my hunter in the starting zone. it was raining so hard that night! also, i really love the female night elf bow-drawing animation. the night i made the run to ironforge. i never realised how you can see the city's lights up on the mountainside at night. remember when the titans were this big mystery from azeroth's past instead of overused and annoying? ashenvale contains a fair number of ruins, but it didn't really hit me just how pompously those elves must have lived back in the day until i considered the sheer size of that half-buried statue. there's this quest in the wetlands that has you fighting cursed undead, and one of their abilities temporarily passes their curse on to you, turning you into an undead as well. to my great amusement this applies to pets as well, meaning that i ran around with a pet undead for a while. (and i guess it confirms that spotty is a girl? unless everyone gets turned into a female undead.) hunting at night on the shimmering flats. i've said it before but i'm astounded by how beautiful i find thousand needles in classic, because i don't remember being particularly fond of it in vanilla. always gotta keep your eyes open on the road through duskwood, you never know when you'll run into stitches! whenever i spotted him wreaking havoc in darkshire, i sometimes decided to help out. i noticed there's an impressive amount of yells associated with stitches spawning as well. it's interesting and somewhat old-fashioned design if you think about it: there is no quest to kill him, he's just a really hard mob (for the level of the zone) that spawns when someone completes a certain quest and is basically like a cat set among the pigeons, making the road unsafe and killing lonely questers left and right if they aren't careful. makes for a very memorable experience. stranglethorn can be quite beautiful when you take a break from killing wildlife and trolls every now and then. logging in one evening i was baffled to find such a crowd in stormwind, considering the server's usual population levels. turns out it was just before someone dropped onyxia's head to give everyone a buff. there is a whole system to this where guilds take turns i think, everyone assembles just before the event to get buffed, then mages put up portals to take the big guilds away to raid and the city empties out again. quite fascinating to watch. the hall of explorers in ironforge is such an rp place, with all those oddities on display, including plaques that you can actually read. looking out over the beauty of loch modan. destroying that was one of those things i could never quite forgive cataclysm. finally, a sunset over theramore. 5 comments tags: ashenvale, duskwood, dustwallow marsh, hunter, ironforge, levelling, loch modan, screenshots, stranglethorn vale, teldrassil, thousand needles, wetlands, wow classic 03/03/2020 hunting in warsong gulch when battlegrounds were added to classic i mentioned that i might give warsong gulch "a try in one of the lower-level brackets if there are enough people queueing to keep wait times at a reasonable level". i was reminded of this resolution when my nelf hunter travelled through the arathi highlands and past the (currently still non-functional) arathi basin entrance. as she was level 29 at the time, i decided to queue up for some wsg the next time i was in ironforge. being at the top of your level range is never a bad thing, and i thought i remembered hunters being pretty good in the lower level brackets. my queue pops weren't quite instant, but close, and i played a total of four matches that day, three of which the alliance lost. it was a pleasant enough nostalgia trip, reminding me of all kinds of details about the battleground that i hadn't thought about in ages (a speed buff spawns in that nook here, there's a gap in the fence over there etc.). i realised that i really liked the map and its music, and the experience also stirred some pleasant memories of playing with my rated battleground team back in cataclysm. lowbie pugs have nothing like the co-ordination of a rated team of course, though considering the number of twinks on both teams, things were certainly more organised than they could have been. each match lasted between 10 and 35 minutes, and the latter was a stark reminder of why i really didn't like this battleground much in its original incarnation: spending more than half an hour fighting just to lose anyway and end up with zero bonus honour doesn't make for the most fun of experiences. that said, i have a knack for seeing the upside when evaluating the scoreboard at the end of the match. sure, we lost horribly and only got four kills throughout the entire match, but at least i got the killing blow on all four of them! or: sure, we lost, but nobody died as many times as me - i win at dying! (as an aside, i've come to the conclusion that this is because i'm the objective-orientated mirror image of "that guy who fights on the road" - note that i'm not saying "opposite": i have a tendency to blindly run towards the objective with no regards to my own safety, which is why i die a lot when things aren't going well. not really that much smarter than road guy i guess, just a different kind of stupid.) anyway, my favourite thing that happened during all of these matches and which i just have to recount on here was when i hopped down from the graveyard, unsure of which way to head after just respawning, and a human mage beckoned me to come with him. the enemy was holed up in their base with our flag, and he thought that we could take them on. in fact, he had it all planned out as he explained to me in whispers: we'd both nuke the warrior who was carrying the flag, and he would take care of the warlock and priest that were guarding him by sheeping one and using his gnomish mind control cap on the other. so we went into the tunnel together and up the ramp on the inside, where we ran straight into the warlock. my mage friend hit his magic button to mind-control him and... i got to watch his name turn red as the cap backfired and turned him into an enemy instead of turning the warlock into an ally. i died soon after but was laughing too hard to do anything useful anyway. it's these kinds of moments i play classic for. 2 comments tags: ashenvale, pugs, pvp, screenshots, wow classic 27/02/2020 did somebody say... thunderfury, blessed blade of the windseeker? i've previously talked about how i ended up being a social member of a raiding guild on my horde characters in wow classic. i'll also be honest and admit that i have wondered occasionally whether i wouldn't be better off in a more casual levelling guild, especially after the friends that had originally rolled characters with me all quit and i was nothing but a lonely leveller in a guild of raiders. but inertia is a powerful force, and ever since i hit 60 i have occasionally benefitted from things like being invited to super smooth guild dungeon runs. this tuesday though was one of those evenings where being in a raiding guild definitely paid off. you see, a couple of weeks ago the guild's main tank had acquired his second binding of the windseeker, meaning that he was now in possession of both of the rare drops from molten core needed to craft thunderfury, classic's legendary (in more than one way) sword. it wasn't quite that straightforward though, as there are also a lot of expensive crafting materials involved, and those couldn't just be conjured on the spot. the tank didn't explicitly ask anyone to give him stuff, but he did comment that there were still a lot of arcanite bars to go and that he'd appreciate any help, so i instantly mailed him my three recently acquired arcanite crystals free of charge, even as a part of my brain was quietly screaming: "what are you doing? those are worth like 150 gold and you still don't even have an epic mount!" but things are just different in classic. it takes a village to raise a child and it takes a guild to get someone a thunderfury. you just know this and take pride in being able to contribute, even as a social member. after that i definitely wanted to be there for the final forging though, so i made sure to keep a close eye on the guild's discord from then on, in order not to miss the point when material gathering was complete and the tank would want to assemble a raid to challenge prince thunderaan for his weapon (who is also a raid boss, if not a "proper" one, so you do need extra warm bodies to finish the quest). and tuesday night was the night! the note said that it was going to happen once the molten core pug organised by the guild was finished - fortunately the guild leader was streaming the run, so i opened the stream in a secondary tab to keep an eye on their progress while doing something else, and once they'd downed raggy i logged back on my hunter and made a beeline for the crystal vale in silithus. i was so excited that i recorded the whole thing: even including time for summons and so on, the whole shebang was over in less than ten minutes, but that didn't make it any less memorable to me. it's just not an event that most players will take part in more than once, if ever, so i was happy to be there, kill a boss the size of a small tower and feel epic. it was definitely worth it too, and seeing everyone else's excitement and happiness for the tank just gave me warm fuzzies. what's not to love? 2 comments tags: gear, guild, loot, molten core, raiding, screenshots, silithus, videos, wow classic 23/02/2020 dungeon milestones something that i've been thinking about while levelling my alts in classic is just how important dungeons are to me, and have been ever since i first encountered them as a concept back in 2005. i mean, i've known for a long time that i like this sort of small group content, but i'd never really paused to think about just how much it influences the way i play, both in wow and in other mmos that i've played over the years and that have similar types of content. to summarise it in a simple example: i can't imagine levelling an alliance character and not taking them to the deadmines around level 20. running that place is just way too enjoyable and rewarding, so that while levelling any character through their teens the goal of "running the deadmines" serves as a beacon for me the entire time: get x more levels from regular quests, start gathering up the various dungeon quests around level 18, then start looking for a group while doing some more regular quests in the area. then i rinse and repeat the whole process for every single dungeon in the game (more or less). in a way it makes me much more resilient against the drop-off in interest that many people seem to experience in the forties as quests become more sparse, as there's no lack of dungeons at any level range, always giving me something interesting to work towards. you might wonder how well this system works in other mmos that i don't already know inside out the way i do classic - after all, i can't really use dungeons to plan my levelling when i don't know what dungeons there are, right? this is correct, but at the same time modern mmos tend to make it much easier to get into this content than classic does. usually you can simply open a dedicated interface that will show you what group content is available at your level and you can just queue up for automated group formation, without having to spend time manually looking for a group or hunting down dungeon quests. that said, my "obsession" with dungeons has its own pitfalls too. it's just a different sort of routine and has its own vulnerabilities to getting disrupted that can cause my progression to stall or even halt completely. for example, many modern mmos are designed around the idea that you don't actually need to do a lot of the available content to get to the level cap - which is fine in principle, but feels bad to me when the available "content chunks" don't slot into each other in an organic manner. for example i was not pleased when in post-cataclysm wow, basically doing any dungeon whatsoever would quickly cause you to outlevel whatever zone you were questing in, making it hard to meaningfully combine the two types of content. during my first stint in neverwinter, one of the reasons i lost interest was that i accidentally outlevelled a skirmish while doing some quests, and there was no way of going back to see that content once you'd left the eligible level bracket. it may seem a bit silly to get upset over something like that, but the point is that it can really disrupt my flow and therefore lessen my enjoyment of the game. even in classic itself i can run into issues when i feel that i "ought to" be doing a certain dungeon but it's hard to get a group for it for example. what got me thinking about this whole thing was that after doing bfd, the stockades and gnomer on my nelf hunter, i thought about razorfen kraul as my next potential destination and how hard it was going to be to find a group for that as alliance - not to mention that i was enjoying a blast of nostalgia doing more or less all the quests in ashenvale at the time. so i made the conscious decision to give myself "permission" to skip that one, and any later ones as well if i just don't feel like doing them at the time. it does require a conscious effort for me to think like that though, because my default is simply to always make a beeline for the next piece of group content. 5 comments tags: instances, levelling, other games, screenshots, wow classic 19/02/2020 classic av continues to entertain over the course of the past several weeks i've returned to av for a few afternoons and evenings to farm some more reputation. i've made it up to revered, which netted me a nice new quiver. that said, queues have been a pain. and to think i complained about having to wait twenty minutes for a match two months ago! nowadays the wait times for horde are easily double that if not more. that does have the advantage that forty minutes are enough time to actually do something other than sit in the queue, such as fish or farm, but if playing av was all you really wanted to do that play session it still sucks. ultimately this wait has largely meant that i haven't actually played that many matches, but just based on the ones i did get into it has been interesting to watch the evolving meta. as kring already mentioned in the comments on my last post, the instant queues for alliance meant that they were trying to organise a lot of pre-mades, which was great for the people in those pre-mades and pretty awful for everyone else. for horde, it resulted in pretty hit-and-miss matches for a while, depending on whether you ended up facing a pre-made or not. the situation was exacerbated when alliance players started to drop out as soon as it became clear that not enough members of their pre-made had made it into the match, and apparently there was something wrong with the backfilling mechanism as well, which meant that some matches would start with only ten alliance players vs. forty horde. let me tell you, i felt bad for those guys... but after waiting in the queue for half an hour or more the hordies were in no mood to make it quick and painless, instead taking their time to bring down every single bunker, kill every npc that gives honour, and even engaging in silly fun like summoning lokholar the ice lord just because they could. blizzard actually felt the need to step in there, fixing the issue of matches starting with one team half empty, and also removing the little number indicator for the battleground, which pre-mades could previously use to co-ordinate which match to enter. this served to further increase queue times, but i have to admit that the matches i do get into lately have been very fun, with horde winning most of the time despite of the perceived alliance bias of the battleground. it's been very interesting to observe the evolving meta as well: early on, most of the matches i won had about half the horde raid splitting off to defend galv and wipe the alliance assault there, which would force them to reorganise and buy us the extra time needed to kill vann before they could get to drek. it still tended to be a relatively close thing though. in my more recent matches though, the horde has been a lot more confident and living up to its name - no more hiding in galv's shadow and trying to defend. instead people fan out across the field of strife (the joke used to be that it's a misnomer because nobody fights there and people just ride past each other), ping where the alliance assault is approaching, and then we just form a sort of battering ram and charge right into them. the advantage of taking the initiative aside, i'm still not sure why this works as well as it does. not only do we usually wipe out the initial assault, but we then proceed to cap stonehearth graveyard - remember when that used to be a meme? when people hated anyone doing that because they wanted the alliance to have a respawn point that would allow them to keep advancing instead of clogging up the roads on their half of the map? well, no more of that - in the current meta, the horde wants to pen the alliance in and farm them for a while. the horde holding stonehearth graveyard until both stonehearth and icewing bunker have been destroyed causes the alliance to trickle back down only slowly, making it easy to defend against them. after collecting a number of the drops from trade-ins, some people will start to recall to frostwolf village to do hand-ins, and things like the icelord summon may well happen for fun. the final push tends to be hard because the alliance forces are concentrated in their base by that point, but at the same time they'll be yearning to break out, so eventually the defense disperses a bit, and by that point it doesn't matter anymore if they make a try at assaulting the horde base, because we're already in their base, killing their dudes. so the long wait tends to pay off with a match that lasts about half an hour and brings with it insane honour and reputation gains for horde - good times if you can stand the wait. we'll see how things continue to evolve and whether the alliance comes up with a proper counter to the currently prevailing horde strategy any time soon. 2 comments tags: alterac mountains, pvp, screenshots, wow classic 14/02/2020 love is in my bags i'd forgotten just how chock-full of seasonal holidays wow is this time of year, even in its classic incarnation. after just wrapping up the lunar festival, we transitioned straight into wow's version of valentine's day, called "love is in the air". i have to confess that i had little to no memories of this particular holiday, so my first reaction upon talking to an innkeeper about the event was confusion. i proceeded to wowhead, where they had a guide up as usual. this alleviated my confusion somewhat, but still left me with a feeling of: "really? that is it?" i proceeded to dig through this blog's archives to check whether i'd had anything to say about this holiday in the past and found this post, which was written during wrath but before the holiday had undergone its first major revamp, and in which i described it with the words: "card collections and poetry collections and food collections and bracelets and candy hearts and rose petals and aaaargh", which sounds about right. in short, it's a holiday dominated by temporary "fun" items and buffs. the buffs aren't bad (i presume) if you're a raider for example, and make sure to buff yourself just before the start of a raid (classic buffs are very powerful), but for someone like me, who's more casual and quite likely to lose a lot of any given buff's duration to idling around in town it's not that exciting. and all the "fun" collectibles that you're supposed to gather from the npcs are just bad when bag space is such a scarce resource. i seem to remember that even back in the day i tended to chuck anything and everything that wasn't immediately useful because i didn't want to put up with this much junk. so i think i'll largely pass on this one for being too annoying and not sufficiently rewarding to me. that said, i feel a certain admiration for the way old blizzard really tried to make every holiday feel different back in the day, even if this one is a bit of a miss for me personally. i can't say i ultimately preferred the way they later homogenised them all to be about gathering a currency to buy rewards and killing a special boss once a day. also, i do love watching people unironically ask in general chat whether anyone can cure their heartbreak, and gaining buffs like "the power of friendship". if nothing else i feel vaguely compelled to always make sure to have some unbestowed friendship bracelets at hand, just so that i can mend any broken hearts i might come across. it's an interesting dynamic, npcs making your character sad and fellow players cheering you up. it certainly gives the event a unique atmosphere. 2 comments tags: screenshots, seasonal events, wow classic older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) what you'll find here mostly stuff about wow classic, which is my preferred version of wow these days. if you trawl through the archives, you'll also find posts about cataclysm & wrath of the lich king, which is when i started this blog, and later about some vanilla private servers. more about the writer and the blog itself can be found here. search this blog subscribe posts atom posts all comments atom all comments archive ▼ 2020 (15) ▼ mar (3) not uldaman likely level 40 the 3rd hunting in warsong gulch ► feb (7) ► jan (5) ► 2019 (39) ► dec (4) ► nov (6) ► oct (9) ► sep (8) ► aug (7) ► jul (1) ► may (3) ► mar (1) ► 2018 (9) ► dec (1) ► nov (4) ► aug (1) ► jun (1) ► mar (1) ► jan (1) ► 2017 (12) ► dec (1) ► nov (5) ► oct (1) ► sep (3) ► feb (1) ► jan (1) ► 2016 (32) ► dec (4) ► nov (1) ► aug (1) ► jul (1) ► jun (2) ► may (4) ► apr (6) ► mar (4) ► feb (5) ► jan (4) ► 2015 (17) ► dec (4) ► nov (2) ► jul (1) ► jun (3) ► may (7) ► 2014 (20) ► oct (1) ► aug (2) ► apr (2) ► mar (2) ► feb (4) ► jan (9) ► 2013 (7) ► dec (6) ► nov (1) ► 2012 (6) ► mar (1) ► feb (2) ► jan (3) ► 2011 (110) ► dec (7) ► nov (8) ► oct (10) ► sep (6) ► aug (11) ► jul (9) ► jun (10) ► may (8) ► apr (13) ► mar (8) ► feb (8) ► jan (12) ► 2010 (181) ► dec (14) ► nov (16) ► oct (20) ► sep (18) ► aug (11) ► jul (18) ► jun (14) ► may (14) ► apr (15) ► mar (11) ► feb (13) ► jan (17) ► 2009 (87) ► dec (19) ► nov (12) ► oct (16) ► sep (12) ► aug (17) ► jul (11) tags achievements (13) addons (5) alchemy (2) alterac mountains (4) arathi highlands (2) arcatraz (2) archaeology (4) ashenvale (7) attunements (6) azjol-nerub (6) azshara (3) badlands (2) barrens (7) bastion of twilight (1) battle for azeroth (2) bc (35) black morass (3) black temple (3) blackfathom deeps (9) blackrock caverns (3) blackrock depths (3) blackrock spire (1) blacksmithing (1) blackwing descent (1) blackwing lair (1) blasted lands (2) blaugust (7) blizzard shop (3) blog (16) blood furnace (1) books (5) bugs (2) burning steppes (2) cape of stranglethorn (1) cataclysm (63) character creation (4) comics (1) community (25) cooking (5) culling of stratholme (3) cyclone battlegroup (6) dalaran (1) darkmoon island (2) darkshore (4) darnassus (1) deadmines (8) death knight (7) deepholm (2) desolace (3) diablo (1) dire maul (4) dps (13) dragon age (3) dragon soul (2) drak'tharon keep (3) druid (18) dun morogh (4) dungeons and dragons (1) durotar (2) duskwood (3) dustwallow marsh (2) earthen ring (2) eastern plaguelands (2) economy (2) elwynn forest (1) elysium (10) enchanting (1) end time (1) engineering (1) exodar (1) felwood (2) feralas (3) firelands (3) first aid (2) fishing (4) forge of souls (4) forsaken (1) gates of ahn'qiraj (2) gear (37) gilneas (2) glyphs (1) gnomeregan (7) graphics (15) grim batol (4) gruul's lair (1) guild (41) gundrak (6) halls of lightning (6) halls of origination (2) halls of reflection (7) halls of stone (4) healing (53) heart of fear (1) hellfire peninsula (2) herbalism (2) heroics (57) hillsbrad foothills (3) hinterlands (2) hour of twilight (1) hunter (22) hydraxian waterlords (2) icecrown citadel (14) instance review (5) instances (155) ironforge (2) isle of thunder (1) jade forest (1) karazhan (1) krasarang wilds (1) kronos (45) leatherworking (2) legion (2) levelling (90) light's hope (1) links (7) loch modan (4) loot (29) lost city of the tol'vir (1) mage (5) magisters terrace (1) magtheridon's lair (1) maraudon (7) mechanar (2) mining (4) mists of pandaria (17) mobs (3) mogu'shan vaults (1) molten core (2) molten front (2) mount hyjal (6) mounts (8) mulgore (2) nagrand (1) naxxramas (5) nexus (4) northern stranglethorn (1) nostalrius (9) npcs (1) oculus (8) old hillsbrad foothills (2) old kingdom (6) orgrimmar (2) other games (11) paladin (21) patch (40) personal (29) pet battles (4) pit of saron (8) priest (29) private servers (56) professions (24) proving grounds (1) pugs (114) pvp (40) pyrewood village (5) quests (117) ragefire chasm (4) raiding (77) razorfen downs (1) razorfen kraul (1) redridge mountains (3) reputations (2) rogue (6) roleplaying (3) ruby sanctum (2) scarlet monastery (5) scenarios (3) scholomance (2) screenshots (127) searing gorge (1) seasonal events (19) serpentshrine cavern (1) sethekk halls (1) shadowfang keep (7) shadowlands (1) shadowmoon valley (1) shaman (8) shattered halls (1) shattrath (1) sholazar basin (1) silithus (4) silvermoon (1) silverpine forest (2) skinning (2) slave pens (1) sound (2) steamvault (1) stonecore (3) stonetalon mountains (4) stormstout brewery (1) stormwind (2) stormwind stockade (4) story (1) stranglethorn vale (7) stratholme (2) sunken temple (2) swamp of sorrows (2) swtor (4) talents (1) tanaris (2) tanking (25) technical (11) teldrassil (4) temple of the jade serpent (1) terokkar forest (1) the eye (1) thousand needles (3) throne of the four winds (1) throne of the tides (1) thunder bluff (1) timeless isle (3) tirisfal glades (1) tol barad (1) trial of the champion (6) trial of the crusader (9) twilight highlands (2) uldaman (5) ulduar (8) uldum (2) un'goro crater (2) undercity (1) user interface (5) utgarde keep (6) utgarde pinnacle (3) valley of the four winds (1) vashj'ir (3) vault of archavon (2) videos (12) violet hold (3) vortex pinnacle (2) wailing caverns (6) war effort (3) warcraft movie (2) warlock (2) warlords of draenor (4) warrior (4) well of eternity (1) western plaguelands (2) westfall (2) wetlands (3) whiny post day (2) winterspring (1) wotlk (38) wow classic (61) zangarmarsh (1) zones (57) zul'aman (2) zul'farrak (5) zul'gurub (2) other mmos i actively play and write about related blogs i like the ancient gaming noob blapril is a promise that blaugust is bound to keep 2 hours ago inventory full tell me something i don't know : everquest ii 5 hours ago everwake's internet adventures genshin impact - how many times can i say breath of the wild? 1 day ago parallel context wordpress doesn't seem to like me 1 day ago kaylriene sidenote: competitive analysis of the next-gen consoles 2 days ago coffee cakes and crits vexed in the lfr 4 days ago in an age too busy for words 4 days ago battle stance wow and the experience bonus 5 days ago spellbound surreal 1 week ago ulalu classic this week: arathi basin, battleground holidays, retail leveling comparison 2 weeks ago world of warcraft: classic top 5 - raid bosses currently in wow classic 2 weeks ago jinxed thoughts thoughts on star trek picard s1e7 "nepenthe" 2 weeks ago blessing of kings wolcen: lords of mayhem 4 weeks ago countdown to classic episode #130 – the final countdown (part two) 5 weeks ago not all hunters ironforge is jumping 2 months ago the land of odd vry plays: fallout new vegas #6 – the road to novac 3 months ago orcish army knife war campaign finale: questions (spoilers) 5 months ago bravetank day in the life 6 months ago eight years in azeroth everybody loves a happy ending 11 months ago you yank it, you tank it: blog of a tanking death knight lady the new mount grind… 1 year ago mmo gypsy wow classic: are you yearning for the good old, bad days? 1 year ago tremayne's law progression vs nostalgia 1 year ago progression annexe mnemosyne status update, 5 years of use 2 years ago aspect of the hare ten year reunion 2 years ago nils' blog legion is well done and i like it 3 years ago the grumpy elf monday random thoughts 3 years ago troll racials are overpowered water reflects the sky 4 years ago more than just a game the summer wind ... 4 years ago player versus developer gamescom 2015 toys to life report 4 years ago murloc parliament » keep [thing] up and refresh [thing] when it expires, cast [ability] when [thing] procs, and use [other ability] on cooldown 4 years ago blaugust 2019 participant!