menumenu hike getting started >> trip planning hiking gear clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking >> hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources >> hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving >> scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving >> freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources >> diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking >> kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing >> kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup >> sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources >> kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 sup blogs climb climbing >> climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing >> skills & techniques climbing training bouldering ice climbing climbing resources >> climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking >> mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills mountain biking training bike touring >> bicycle touring fundamentals bicycle touring gear bicycle touring costs bicycle touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources >> cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 bicycle touring blogs top 25 mountain biking blogs snow skiing >> skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding >> snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources >> skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography >> fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography >> fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources >> outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs top 25 underwater photography blogs water surfing >> surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing >> sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources >> surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop blog community about about us privacy policy terms & conditions contact us jobs search menumenu hike getting started hiking basics hiking gear outdoor clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 stand up paddleboarding blogs climb climbing climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing climbing skills & techniques training for climbing bouldering ice climbing climbing resources climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills training for mountain biking bike touring bike touring fundamentals bike touring gear bike touring costs bike touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 mountain biking blogs top 25 bicycle touring blogs snow skiing skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs water surfing surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop members privacy policy the adventure junkies llc (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates the https://www.theadventurejunkies.com/ website (the “service”). this page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data when you use our service and the choices you have associated with that data. we use your data to provide and improve the service. by using the service, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. unless otherwise defined in this privacy policy, terms used in this privacy policy have the same meanings as in our terms and conditions, accessible from https://www.theadventurejunkies.com/ definitions serviceservice is the https://www.theadventurejunkies.com/ website operated by the adventure junkies llc personal datapersonal data means data about a living individual who can be identified from those data (or from those and other information either in our possession or likely to come into our possession). usage datausage data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of the service or from the service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). cookiescookies are small pieces of data stored on your device (computer or mobile device). data controllerdata controller means the natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal information are, or are to be, processed.for the purpose of this privacy policy, we are a data controller of your personal data. data processors (or service providers)data processor (or service provider) means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the data controller.we may use the services of various service providers in order to process your data more effectively. data subject (or user)data subject is any living individual who is using our service and is the subject of personal data. information collection and use we collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our service to you. types of data collected personal data while using our service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“personal data”). personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to: email address first name and last name cookies and usage data we may use your personal data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. you may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link or instructions provided in any email we send. usage data we may also collect information how the service is accessed and used (“usage data”). this usage data may include information such as your computer’s internet protocol address (e.g. ip address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. tracking & cookies data we use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our service and hold certain information. cookies are files with small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device. tracking technologies also used are beacons, tags, and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyze our service. you can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. however, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our service. examples of cookies we use: session cookies. we use session cookies to operate our service. preference cookies. we use preference cookies to remember your preferences and various settings. security cookies. we use security cookies for security purposes. use of data the adventure junkies llc uses the collected data for various purposes: to provide and maintain our service to notify you about changes to our service to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service when you choose to do so to provide customer support to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our service to monitor the usage of our service to detect, prevent and address technical issues to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive such information legal basis for processing personal data under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are from the european economic area (eea), the adventure junkies llc legal basis for collecting and using the personal information described in this privacy policy depends on the personal data we collect and the specific context in which we collect it. the adventure junkies llc may process your personal data because: we need to perform a contract with you you have given us permission to do so the processing is in our legitimate interests and it’s not overridden by your rights to comply with the law retention of data the adventure junkies llc will retain your personal data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this privacy policy. we will retain and use your personal data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies. the adventure junkies llc will also retain usage data for internal analysis purposes. usage data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods. transfer of data your information, including personal data, may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from your jurisdiction. if you are located outside united states and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including personal data, to united states and process it there. your consent to this privacy policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer. the adventure junkies llc will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and no transfer of your personal data will take place to an organization or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information. disclosure of data business transaction if the adventure junkies llc is involved in a merger, acquisition or asset sale, your personal data may be transferred. we will provide notice before your personal data is transferred and becomes subject to a different privacy policy. disclosure for law enforcement under certain circumstances, the adventure junkies llc may be required to disclose your personal data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). legal requirements the adventure junkies llc may disclose your personal data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: to comply with a legal obligation to protect and defend the rights or property of the adventure junkies llc to prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the service to protect the personal safety of users of the service or the public to protect against legal liability security of data the security of your data is important to us, but remember that no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. “do not track” signals we do not support do not track (“dnt”). do not track is a preference you can set in your web browser to inform websites that you do not want to be tracked. you can enable or disable do not track by visiting the preferences or settings page of your web browser. your data protection rights under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are a resident of the european economic area (eea), you have certain data protection rights. the adventure junkies llc aims to take reasonable steps to allow you to correct, amend, delete, or limit the use of your personal data. if you wish to be informed what personal data we hold about you and if you want it to be removed from our systems, please contact us. in certain circumstances, you have the following data protection rights: the right to access, update or to delete the information we have on you. whenever made possible, you can access, update or request deletion of your personal data directly within your account settings section. if you are unable to perform these actions yourself, please contact us to assist you. the right of rectification. you have the right to have your information rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete. the right to object. you have the right to object to our processing of your personal data. the right of restriction. you have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal information. the right to data portability. you have the right to be provided with a copy of the information we have on you in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used format. the right to withdraw consent. you also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where the adventure junkies llc relied on your consent to process your personal information. please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before responding to such requests. you have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal data. for more information, please contact your local data protection authority in the european economic area (eea). service providers we may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service (“service providers”), to provide the service on our behalf, to perform service-related services or to assist us in analyzing how our service is used. these third parties have access to your personal data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purpose. analytics we may use third-party service providers to monitor and analyze the use of our service. google analyticsgoogle analytics is a web analytics service offered by google that tracks and reports website traffic. google uses the data collected to track and monitor the use of our service. this data is shared with other google services. google may use the collected data to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network.you can opt-out of having made your activity on the service available to google analytics by installing the google analytics opt-out browser add-on. the add-on prevents the google analytics javascript (ga.js, analytics.js, and dc.js) from sharing information with google analytics about visits activity.for more information on the privacy practices of google, please visit the google privacy & terms web page: http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/ links to other sites our service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. if you click on a third party link, you will be directed to that third party’s site. we strongly advise you to review the privacy policy of every site you visit. we have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. children’s privacy our service does not address anyone under the age of 18 (“children”). we do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 18. if you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your children has provided us with personal data, please contact us. if we become aware that we have collected personal data from children without verification of parental consent, we take steps to remove that information from our servers. changes to this privacy policy we may update our privacy policy from time to time. we will notify you of any changes by posting the new privacy policy on this page. we will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the “effective date” at the top of this privacy policy. you are advised to review this privacy policy periodically for any changes. changes to this privacy policy are effective when they are posted on this page. contact information the adventure junkies welcomes your questions or comments regarding this statement of privacy. if you believe that the adventure junkies has not adhered to this statement, please contact the adventure junkies at: the adventure junkies llc 1623 central avenue suite 18 cheyenne, wyoming 82001 email address: info@theadventurejunkies.com effective as of may 18, 2018 tweet pin share email flip 0 shares water activities scuba diving, spearfishing sea kayaking sup, kayak fishing underwater photo surfing, sailing land activities day hiking, backpacking mtb, bike touring rock climbing skiing, snowboarding outdoor photo © 2019 the adventure junkies | all rights reserved. about how do we review privacy policy terms contact jobs this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept reject read more × privacy overview privacy overview