worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » privacy policy for busyteacher.org privacy policy this privacy policy applies between you, the user of this website and sureswift capital inc., the owner and provider of this website busyteacher.org. busyteacher takes the privacy of your information very seriously. this privacy policy applies to our use of any and all data collected by us or provided by you in relation to your use of the website. please read this privacy policy carefully. definitions and interpretation in this privacy policy, the following definitions are used: data collectively all information that you submit to busyteacher via the website. this definition incorporates, where applicable, the definitions provided in the data protection act 1998 and the european union’s 2018 general data protection regulation (gdpr); credit & debit card data we do not store credit card details nor do we share customer details relating to financial data with any 3rd parties; cookies a small text file may be placed on your computer by this website when you visit certain parts of the website and/or when you use certain features of the website. details of the cookies used by this website are set out in the clause below (cookies); busyteacher, sureswift capital inc., we or us busyteacher, owned fully by sureswift capital inc., a company incorporated in victoria, british columbia, canada with whose registered office is at 113-1834c oak bay avenue, v8r 0a4; uk and eu cookie law the privacy and electronic communications (ec directive) regulations 2003 as amended by the privacy and electronic communications (ec directive) (amendment) regulations 2011 and the european union’s 2018 general data protection regulation; user or you any third party that accesses the website and is not either (i) employed by sureswift capital inc. and acting in the course of their employment or (ii) engaged as a consultant or otherwise providing services to sureswift capital inc. and accessing the website in connection with the provision of such services; and website the website that you are currently using, busyteacher.org, and any sub-domains of this site unless expressly excluded by their own terms and conditions. in this privacy policy, unless the context requires a different interpretation: - the singular includes the plural and vice versa; - references to sub-clauses, clauses, schedules or appendices are to sub-clauses, clauses, schedules or appendices of this privacy policy; - a reference to a person includes firms, companies, government entities, trusts and partnerships; - “including” is understood to mean “including without limitation”; - reference to any statutory provision includes any modification or amendment of it; - the headings and sub-headings do not form part of this privacy policy. scope of this privacy policy this privacy policy applies only to the actions of busyteacher and users with respect to this website. it does not extend to any websites that can be accessed from this website including, but not limited to, any links we may provide to social media websites or externally-facing urls provided throughout throughout the course of using busyteacher. data collected we may collect the following data, which includes personal data, from you: - name (if you choose to use it as part of your member name) - contact information such as email address; - member name in each case, in accordance with this privacy policy. our use of data for purposes of the data protection act 1998 and gdpr, busyteacher acts as the “data controller”. we will retain any data you submit for as long as busyteacher deems it necessary to provide adequate service to the user, unless explicitly asked by a user for their data to be deleted. unless we specifically say otherwise, your data will never be intentionally disclosed to third parties for the sake of administering better service, but never for marketing purposes through various affiliates and / or other companies within our group. all personal data is stored securely in accordance with the principles of the data protection act 1998 and the european union’s general data protection regulation. for more details on these two security regulations see the clause below (security). any or all of the above data may be required by us from time to time in order to provide you with the best possible service and experience when using our website. specifically, data may be used by us for the following reasons: - internal record keeping; - improvement of our products / services; - transmission by email of promotional materials that may be of interest to you; - transmission to 3rd parties in order for them to market relevant promotional materials that may be of interest to you; the ability to make automated decision making, including profiling, only for the purpose of offering a better and more personalized experience for the user or marketing to new users based on information from the users of busyteacher in aggregate; in each case, in accordance with this privacy policy. third party websites and services busyteacher may, from time to time, employ the services of other parties for dealing with certain processes necessary for the operation of the website. the providers of such services have access to certain personal data provided by users of this website and may be located in various locations throughout the world. any data used by such parties is used only to the extent required by them to perform the services that we request. any use for other purposes is strictly prohibited. furthermore, any data that is processed by third parties will be processed within the terms of this privacy policy and in accordance with the data protection act 1998 and gdpr. additionally, data can be transmitted to 3rd parties for relevant marketing purposes at the sole discretion of those employed by sureswift capital inc. and busyteacher. links to other websites this website may, from time to time, provide links to other websites. we have no control over such websites and are not responsible for the content of these websites. this privacy policy does not extend to your use of such websites. you are advised to read the privacy policy or statement of other websites prior to using them. changes of business ownership and control sureswift capital inc. may, from time to time, expand or reduce our business and this may involve the sale and/or the transfer of control of all or part of busyteacher. data provided by users will, where it is relevant to any part of our business so transferred, be transferred along with that part and the new owner or newly controlling party will, under the terms of this privacy policy, be permitted to use the data for the purposes for which it was originally supplied to us. we may also disclose data to a prospective purchaser of our business or any part of it. in the above instances, we will take steps with the aim of ensuring your privacy is protected. controlling use of your data wherever you are required to submit data, you will be given options to restrict our use of that data. this may include the following: - use of data for direct or indirect marketing purposes; you have the right to ask for a copy of any of your personal data held by busyteacher. you have the right to withdraw consent necessary to use the services provided by busyteacher at any time. you have the right for your data to be deleted from the servers and databases of busyteacher. functionality of the website to use all features and functions available on the website, you may be required to submit certain data. in order to use the service administered by busyteacher.org all users must consent for busyteacher to use your data for purposes busyteacher sees fit as outlined elsewhere in the privacy policy. refusal to offer consent is grounds for busyteacher to block access to services offered by busyteacher.org a user may revoke consent at any time. you may restrict your internet browser’s use of cookies. for more information see the clause below (cookies). security data security is of great importance to busyteacher and to protect your data we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure data collected via this website. if password access is required for certain parts of the website, you are responsible for keeping this password confidential. we endeavor to do our best to protect your personal data. however, transmission of information over the internet is not always perfectly secure and is done at your own risk. we cannot ensure the security of your data transmitted to the website. cookies this website may place and access certain cookies on your computer. busyteacher.org uses cookies to improve your experience of using the website and to improve our range of products and services. busyteacher.org has carefully chosen these cookies and has taken steps to ensure that your privacy is protected and respected at all times. all cookies used by this website are used in accordance with current uk and eu cookie law. before the website places cookies on your computer, you will be presented with a message bar requesting your consent to set those cookies. by giving your consent to the placing of cookies, you are enabling busyteacher to provide a better experience and service to you. you may, if you wish, deny consent to the placing of cookies; however certain features of the website may not function fully or as intended. this website may place the following cookies: 1. strictly necessary cookies these are cookies that are required for the operation of our website. they include, for example, cookies that enable you to log into secure areas of our website, use a shopping cart or make use of e-billing services. you can choose to enable or disable cookies in your internet browser. by default, most internet browsers accept cookies but this can be changed. for further details, please consult the help menu in your internet browser. you can choose to delete cookies at any time; however you may lose any information that enables you to access the website more quickly and efficiently including, but not limited to, personalization settings. it is recommended that you ensure that your internet browser is up-to-date and that you consult the help and guidance provided by the developer of your internet browser if you are unsure about adjusting your privacy settings. general you may not transfer any of your rights under this privacy policy to any other person. we may transfer our rights under this privacy policy where we reasonably believe your rights will not be affected. if any court or competent authority finds that any provision of this privacy policy (or part of any provision) is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that provision or part-provision will, to the extent required, be deemed to be deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the other provisions of this privacy policy will not be affected. unless otherwise agreed, no delay, act or omission by a party in exercising any right or remedy will be deemed a waiver of that, or any other, right or remedy. the privacy policy is governed by and interpreted according to the laws of canada. any dispute, controversy or claim arising under, out of or relating to the validity, interpretation and performance of this privacy policy shall be referred to and finally determined by the competent courts of the province of british columbia and british columbia law shall apply. for any questions or concerns relating to the use of your user data while using busyteacher, you are welcome to contact the sureswift capital inc.’s chosen data protection officer who can be reached by sending an email to [email protected] every user of busyteacher has a variety of rights relating to the use of their data while using busyteacher, including the right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority. changes to this privacy policy busyteacher reserves the right to change this privacy policy as we may deem necessary from time to time or as may be required by law. any changes will be immediately posted on the website and you are deemed to have accepted the terms of the privacy policy on your first use of the website following the alterations.you may contact busyteacher by email at [email protected] effective date of this privacy policy: this privacy policy is effective as of may 25, 2018. busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...