home about as seen in work with me/contact 40 before 40 newsletter disclosure privacy policy diary of the dad an award-winning uk dad blog privacy policy privacy policy effective date: 18 may 2018 diary of the dad (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates the website https://www.diaryofthedad.co.uk website (the “service”). this page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data when you use our service and the choices you have associated with that data. we use your data to provide and improve the service. by using the service, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. unless otherwise defined in this privacy policy, terms used in this privacy policy have the same meanings as in our terms and conditions, accessible from https://www.diaryofthedad.co.uk definitions service service is the https://www.diaryofthedad.co.uk website operated by diary of the dad personal data personal data means data about a living individual who can be identified from those data (or from those and other information either in our possession or likely to come into our possession). usage data usage data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of the service or from the service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). cookies cookies are small pieces of data stored on your device (computer or mobile device). data controller data controller means the natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal information are, or are to be, processed.for the purpose of this privacy policy, we are a data controller of your personal data. data processors (or service providers) data processor (or service provider) means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the data controller.we may use the services of various service providers in order to process your data more effectively. data subject (or user) data subject is any living individual who is using our service and is the subject of personal data. information collection and use we collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our service to you. types of data collected personal data while using our service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“personal data”). personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to: email address first name and last name cookies and usage data we may use your personal data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. you may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link or instructions provided in any email we send or by contacting us. usage data we may also collect information how the service is accessed and used (“usage data”). this usage data may include information such as your computer’s internet protocol address (e.g. ip address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. tracking & cookies data we use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our service and hold certain information. cookies are files with small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device. tracking technologies also used are beacons, tags, and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyse our service. you can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. however, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our service. examples of cookies we use: session cookies. we use session cookies to operate our service. preference cookies. we use preference cookies to remember your preferences and various settings. security cookies. we use security cookies for security purposes. use of data diary of the dad uses the collected data for various purposes: to provide and maintain our service to notify you about changes to our service to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service when you choose to do so to provide customer support to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our service to monitor the usage of our service to detect, prevent and address technical issues to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive such information legal basis for processing personal data under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are from the european economic area (eea), diary of the dad legal basis for collecting and using the personal information described in this privacy policy depends on the personal data we collect and the specific context in which we collect it. diary of the dad may process your personal data because: we need to perform a contract with you you have given us permission to do so the processing is in our legitimate interests and it’s not overridden by your rights to comply with the law retention of data diary of the dad will retain your personal data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this privacy policy. we will retain and use your personal data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies. diary of the dad will also retain usage data for internal analysis purposes. usage data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods. transfer of data your information, including personal data, may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from your jurisdiction. if you are located outside the united kingdom and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including personal data, to the united kingdom and process it there. your consent to this privacy policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer. diary of the dad will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and no transfer of your personal data will take place to an organisation or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information. disclosure of data disclosure for law enforcement under certain circumstances, diary of the dad may be required to disclose your personal data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). legal requirements diary of the dad may disclose your personal data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: to comply with a legal obligation to protect and defend the rights or property of diary of the dad to prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the service to protect the personal safety of users of the service or the public to protect against legal liability security of data the security of your data is important to us, but remember that no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. your data protection rights under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are a resident of the european economic area (eea), you have certain data protection rights. diary of the dad aims to take reasonable steps to allow you to correct, amend, delete, or limit the use of your personal data. if you wish to be informed what personal data we hold about you and if you want it to be removed from our systems, please contact us. in certain circumstances, you have the following data protection rights: the right to access, update or to delete the information we have on you. whenever made possible, you can access, update or request deletion of your personal data directly within your account settings section. if you are unable to perform these actions yourself, please contact us to assist you. the right of rectification. you have the right to have your information rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete. the right to object. you have the right to object to our processing of your personal data. the right of restriction. you have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal information. the right to data portability. you have the right to be provided with a copy of the information we have on you in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used format. the right to withdraw consent. you also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where diary of the dad relied on your consent to process your personal information. please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before responding to such requests. you have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal data. for more information, please contact your local data protection authority in the european economic area (eea). service providers we may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service (“service providers”), to provide the service on our behalf, to perform service-related services or to assist us in analysing how our service is used. these third parties have access to your personal data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purpose. analytics we may use third-party service providers to monitor and analyse the use of our service. google analytics google analytics is a web analytics service offered by google that tracks and reports website traffic. google uses the data collected to track and monitor the use of our service. this data is shared with other google services. google may use the collected data to contextualise and personalise the ads of its own advertising network.you can opt-out of having made your activity on the service available to google analytics by installing the google analytics opt-out browser add-on. the add-on prevents the google analytics javascript (ga.js, analytics.js, and dc.js) from sharing information with google analytics about visits activity.for more information on the privacy practices of google, please visit the google privacy & terms web page: http://www.google.com/intl/en/policies/privacy/ links to other sites our service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. if you click on a third party link, you will be directed to that third party’s site. we strongly advise you to review the privacy policy of every site you visit. we have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. children’s privacy our service does not address anyone under the age of 18 (“children”). we do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 18. if you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your children has provided us with personal data, please contact us. if we become aware that we have collected personal data from children without verification of parental consent, we take steps to remove that information from our servers. changes to this privacy policy we may update our privacy policy from time to time. we will notify you of any changes by posting the new privacy policy on this page. we will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the “effective date” at the top of this privacy policy. you are advised to review this privacy policy periodically for any changes. changes to this privacy policy are effective when they are posted on this page. contact us if you have any questions about this privacy policy, please contact us: by email: tom@diaryofthedad.co.uk about me i'm tom briggs. a proud dad of three and, somehow or other, the writer of a multi-award-winning dad blog. i've been writing diary of the dad since 2010 and it's gone from a small hobby to my full-time job. i still have the same enthusiasm for this blog as i did when i wrote my first post and hope you enjoy reading my musings as much as i do writing them. if you're a journalist looking for a dad's point of view, you may want to check my as seen in page. similarly, if you're a pr or brand, please visit my work with me page. finally, if you want to get in touch with me, my email address is: tom@diaryofthedad.co.uk follow me as seen in recent posts looking for the silver linings in worrying times i’ve taken myself for a mug goodbye old house, hello new home five things i’m looking forward to about moving house ah well, never mind search for: awards and rankings archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 categories categories select category 40 before 40 baby and toddler blogging books budgeting charity christmas comment days out education family life fashion father’s day films food and drink football health and fitness home and garden lifestyle mother’s day motoring nine to five parenting pregnancy sleep special occasions tech toys and games travel tv uncategorized video games work theme by scissor themes proudly powered by wordpress