instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy privacy policy navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy privacy policy who we are our website address is: http://bitofmomsense.com. rebecca stanisic is the owner of this website. what personal data we collect and why we collect it how your information may be used we may use the information collected in the following ways: to operate and maintain the website; to identify you as a user of the website, and customize the website for you to send you promotional information such as newsletters. each email promotion will provide information on how to opt-out of future mailings; to send you administrative communications, such as administrative emails, confirmation emails, technical notices, updates on policies, or security alerts; to respond to your comments or inquiries; to provide you with user support; to improve the website and your experience while on the website to track and measure advertising on the website; to protect, investigate, and deter against unauthorized or illegal activity. visitor comments may be checked through an automated spam detection service. we respect your privacy and are committed to protecting it. the purpose of this privacy policy is to inform you what personally identifiable information we may collect and how it may be used. this statement only applies to this website. information you voluntarily submit to the website: we may collect personal information from you such as your name or email address. for example, you may voluntarily submit information to the website by leaving a comment, subscribing to a newsletter, or submitting a contact form. automatically-collected information: we automatically collect certain information about you and the device with which you access the website. for example, when you use the website, we will log your ip address, operating system type, browser type, referring website, pages you viewed, and the dates/times when you accessed the website. we may also collect information about actions you take when using the website, such as links clicked. cookies: we may log information using cookies, which are small data files stored on your browser by the website. we may use both session cookies, which expire when you close your browser, and persistent cookies, which stay on your browser until deleted, to provide you with a more personalized experience on the website. comments when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. media if you upload images to the website, you should avoid uploading images with embedded location data (exif gps) included. visitors to the website can download and extract any location data from images on the website. contact forms from time to time, as required, there may be a contact form used on this site. cookies if you leave a comment on our site you may opt-in to saving your name, email address and website in cookies. these are for your convenience so that you do not have to fill in your details again when you leave another comment. these cookies will last for one year. if you have an account and you log in to this site, we will set a temporary cookie to determine if your browser accepts cookies. this cookie contains no personal data and is discarded when you close your browser. when you log in, we will also set up several cookies to save your login information and your screen display choices. login cookies last for two days, and screen options cookies last for a year. if you select “remember me”, your login will persist for two weeks. if you log out of your account, the login cookies will be removed. if you edit or publish an article, an additional cookie will be saved in your browser. this cookie includes no personal data and simply indicates the post id of the article you just edited. it expires after 1 day. embedded content from other websites articles on this site may include embedded content (e.g. videos, images, articles, etc.). embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if the visitor has visited the other website. these websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracing your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. who we share your data with as needed, we may be required to share your contact information with regards to a giveaway or third party partnership if needed, however, this will be outlined in giveaway posts or partnership posts as needed. how long we retain your data if you leave a comment, the comment and its metadata are retained indefinitely. this is so we can recognize and approve any follow-up comments automatically instead of holding them in a moderation queue. for users that register on our website (if any), we also store the personal information they provide in their user profile. all users can see, edit, or delete their personal information at any time (except they cannot change their username). website administrators can also see and edit that information. what rights you have over your data if you have an account on this site, or have left comments, you can request to receive an exported file of the personal data we hold about you, including any data you have provided to us. you can also request that we erase any personal data we hold about you. this does not include any data we are obliged to keep for administrative, legal, or security purposes. third-party use of personal information we may share your information with third parties when you explicitly authorize us to share your information. additionally, the website may use third-party service providers to service various aspects of the website. each third-party service provider’s use of your personal information is dictated by their respective privacy policies. the website currently uses the following third-party service providers: google analytics – this service tracks website usage and provides information such as referring websites and user actions on the website. google analytics may capture your ip address, but no other personal information is captured by google analytics. data will be retained by google analytics for 26 months, after which time it will be deleted. mailchimp – this service is used for delivery of email updates and newsletters. we store your name and email address for purposes of delivering such communications. please refer to mailchimp’s privacy policy for further information. advertising display ads we may use third-party advertising companies to serve content and advertisements when you visit the website, which may use cookies, as noted above. retargeting ads from time to time, the website may engage in remarketing efforts with third-party companies, such as google, facebook, or instagram, in order to market the website. these companies use cookies to serve ads based on someone’s past visits to the website. affiliate program participation the website may engage in affiliate marketing, which is done by embedding tracking links into the website. if you click on a link for an affiliate partnership, a cookie will be placed on your browser to track any sales for purposes of commissions. at this time, your personal information is not shared with any other third-party applications. this list may be amended from time to time in the website’s sole discretion. it will be required to be shared for the purpose of managing a giveaway or contest, but only for those who participate in the giveaway or contest. except when required by law, we will not sell, distribute, or reveal your email addresses or other personal information without your consent; however, we may disclose or transfer personal information collected through the website to third parties who acquire all or a portion of our business, which may be the result of a merger, consolidation, or purchase of all or a portion of our assets, or in connection with any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding brought by or against us. anonymous data from time to time, we may use anonymous data, which does not identify you alone, or when combined with data from other parties. this type of anonymous data may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. examples of this anonymous data may include analytics or information collected from cookies. publicly visible information if you leave a comment on this website, certain information may be publicly visible. you will be asked to leave a name, and email address and will have the option to add a link to your website. your email address will never be available publicly. users may see your name, and a link to your website url. newsletters on the website, you may subscribe to our newsletter, which may be used for advertising purposes. all newsletters sent may contain tracking pixels. the pixel is embedded in emails and allows an analysis of the success of online marketing campaigns. because of these tracking pixels, we may see if and when you open an email and which links within the email you click. also, this allows the website to adapt the content of future newsletters to the interests of the user. this behavior will not be passed on to third parties. rights related to your personal information opt-out – you may opt-out of future email communications by following the unsubscribe links in our emails. you may also notify us at info [at] bitofmomsense.com to be removed from our mailing list. access – you may access the personal information we have about you by submitting a request to info [at] bitofmomsense.com amend – you may contact us at info [at] bitofmomsense.com to amend or update your personal information. forget – in certain situations, you may request that we erase or forget your personal data. to do so, please submit a request to info [at] bitofmomsense.com please note that we may need to retain certain information for record keeping purposes or to complete transactions, or when required by law. sensitive personal information at no time should you submit sensitive personal information to the website. this includes your social security number, information regarding race or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious beliefs, health information, criminal background, or trade union memberships. if you elect to submit such information to us, it will be subject to this privacy policy. how we protect your information we adopt appropriate data collection, storage and processing practices and security measures to protect against unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure or destruction of your personal information, username, password, transaction information and data stored on our site. children’s information the website does not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under the age of 16. if a parent or guardian believes that the website has personally identifiable information of a child under the age of 16 in its database, please contact us immediately at info [at] bitofmomsense.com nd we will use our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records. outside web links this web site contains links to other sites. please be aware a little bit of momsense is not responsible for the privacy practices or content of such other sites. please be aware, once you leave our site users should read the privacy of each and every web site that collects personal information. this privacy policy applies solely to information collected by a little bit of momsense. changes to this privacy policy a little bit of momsense has the discretion to update this privacy policy at any time. we encourage users to frequently check this page for any changes to stay informed about how we are helping to protect the personal information we collect. you acknowledge and agree that it is your responsibility to review this privacy policy periodically and become aware of modifications. contact information at any time, please contact us at info [at] bitofmomsense.com for questions related to this privacy policy. this policy was last updated may 23, 2018 facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.