can't get enough treehugger? sign up now and have it sent straight to your inbox. daily and weekly newsletters available. email address email is required newsletters the daily newsletter the weekly newsletter subscribe × design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows driving sustainability mainstream design living science technology transportation business energy slideshows about contact newsletters advertisement privacy last updated: may 23, 2018 your privacy is important to us. treehugger.com has prepared these privacy and security policies ("statement") so you may better understand how treehugger.com ("our website") may use your personal information in connection with our website and services, as well as how it protects your information against unauthorized use. this privacy policy applies to all information collected about you by treehugger.com, regardless of how it is collected or stored, and describes, among other things, the types of information collected about you when you interact with the services, how your information may be used, when your information may be disclosed, how you can control the use and disclosure of your information, and how your information is protected. personal information may include: (1) contact data (such as your name, company name, title, phone number, mailing and email addresses); (2) traffic data (such as your ip address, domain server, type of computer, type of web browser, search history and page view history). depending on your location, you may also have certain additional rights with respect to your information, such as: (1) data access and portability (including the right to obtain a copy of your personal data you provided to mnn.com, via your settings); (2) data correction (including the ability to update your personal data, in many cases via settings); (3) data deletion (including the right to have mnn delete your personal information, except information we are required to retain, by contacting us); and (4) withdrawal of consent or objection to processing (including, in limited circumstances, the right to ask mnn to stop processing your personal data, with some exceptions, by contacting us). except as otherwise noted in this privacy policy, treehugger.com is a data controller (as that term is used under the eu general data protection regulation or gdpr), which means that we decide how and why the information you provide to us is processed. all personal data that you transmit for the benefit of services provided in this website will be treated according to gdpr effective may 25, 2018. for further information about protection of personal data, visit the gdpr website. please take the time to review the full statement below and contact us with any questions or concerns. collection of information personal information treehugger.com may ask you to register and provide personal information in certain instances, such as when you make a comment to a story or when you contact our customer support group. personally identifiable information that we may collect includes your name and email address. children's personal information treehugger.com does not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from users under the age of 13. if we find out that we have such personal information, we will take reasonable steps to delete it. website usage information treehugger.com tracks navigational data (log files, server logs, click-stream) and information about how our website is used by you (through cookies, internet tags, or web beacons). we also collect information such as the url of the website you previously visited and the time of day that you use our website. treehugger.com also keeps track of the pages you visit within our website as well as any transaction details (downloads, orders, requests, or referrals). you can set your browser to notify you when a cookie is sent, or to refuse or delete cookies altogether, but in such cases certain features of our website might not function as expected. third-party ad-serving companies on our website, we will display third-party advertisements. while many of these advertisements are displayed by treehugger.com, we may allow third-party ad-serving companies or ad networks to display advertisements on our website. some of these ad networks may place a persistent cookie in order to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement. thus, third party ad-serving companies or ad networks may compile information about where you are using your computer, where you saw their advertisements, and which ads are clicked on. this information allows the third party to deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. treehugger.com does not have access to the cookies that may be placed by the third-party ad-serving companies or ad networks. we will not share information that will specifically identify you to an ad-serving company or ad. how we use your information personal information treehugger.com collects, integrates, and uses your personal information to help enhance and personalize your use of our website and the services that we may offer. this information also allows us to provide you with targeted content, information, and advertising (on our website, in newsletters, via e-mail, etc.). we also use anonymous and aggregated data to create statistics and reports for various business purposes. we may aggregate anonymous data and share it with our advertisers or treehugger.com partners in order to offer you potentially desirable products and services. treehugger.com may also use your information to communicate via our newsletters, but only after you give your express permission for such communication. the exception is the case of "service e-mails," which we use to communicate with you regarding the system itself or your use of the system. examples include: communication around system downtimes, announcements regarding the launch of new services, responses to customer service enquires, and messages regarding the completion of transactions you have initiated. website usage information the website usage information we collect (e.g., cookies, internet tags, web beacons, etc.) is used by treehugger.com to monitor the operation, technical functions, and quality of our website and services. this information is also used to provide general statistics regarding use of our website. we may also use such information for research or improvements of our website and the services we offer you. this data is also used by treehugger.com to deliver customized content and advertising to you when your online behavior indicates that you are interested in a particular subject area. (i.e. you've communicated to us that you are particularly interested in recycling). disclosure of data treehugger.com keeps your personally identifiable information confidential. we do not disclose it to third parties or others that do not have a need to know such information, except under certain circumstances. set forth below are various circumstances under which mnn.com may share your personal information: certain of our employees and independent contractors have access to your personally identifiable information for the sole purpose of helping us run our business. these employees and contractors have confidentiality and security obligations. we may disclose your personally identifiable information in the event that we sell this website or substantial parts of our business, provided that the buyer agrees to comply with this statement. we may share your information with affiliated companies or strategic alliance partners, provided they comply with this statement. although we do not provide your personally identifiable information to our advertising customers and ad networks, we do aggregate and supply them with anonymous data (for example, "5,000 members of treehugger.com say that global warming is their top environmental concern") if you post any information in public areas of our website, such as blogs or article-commenting, it will be available to the public and we may reuse and republish such information at our discretion and in accordance with our terms of use. we may also share your personally identifiable information to respond to law enforcement requests, court orders, or other legal processes; or if we believe that such disclosure is necessary to investigate, prevent, or respond to illegal activities, fraud, physical threats to you or others; or as otherwise required by any applicable law or regulation. before we disclose your personally identifiable information for other reasons, we will first obtain your consent, via e-mail, click-through, an online opportunity to enter your preference, or some other manner. in the event that we disclose your personally identifiable information as set forth above, we will require third party organizations to protect and maintain your personally identifiable information in compliance with the terms and conditions of this statement. prohibited disclosures except as set forth above, treehugger.com will not disclose your personally identifiable information to any third party, including advertisers, without your explicit consent. in addition, treehugger.com will not sell, rent, or otherwise disclose treehugger.com's email list or address list except as explicitly set forth in this privacy policy. control of your personal information treehugger.com offers its users choices for the collection, use, and sharing of personally identifiable information at the time a user decides to register. in addition, users may stop the delivery of future communications from treehugger.com by unsubscribing at any time. for instance, each email you receive (aside from "service emails") contain instructions explaining how to stop receiving such emails. if your personally identifiable information changes (such as zip code, phone, or e-mail or postal address), or if you no longer desire our service, we provide a way for you to correct, update, or delete/deactivate your personally identifiable information. this can be done by visiting your account page on our website or by emailing our customer support service at contact@treehugger.com. protection of information -- security treehugger.com is committed to protecting the security of your personal information. we use a variety of up-to date security technologies and procedures to help protect your personal information from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. for example, we store any personal information you provide on computer systems with limited access. these systems are located in controlled facilities. when we transmit highly confidential information over the internet, we protect it through the use of encryption, such as the secure socket layer (ssl) protocol. you should keep in mind that no internet communication is ever completely secure or error-free. changes to this statement we may periodically update this statement to reflect changes in our services and policies. when we post changes to this statement, we will revise the "last updated" date at the top of this statement. if there are material changes to the statement or in how treehugger.com will use your personal information, we will notify you either by posting a prominent notice prior to implementing the change or by sending you a direct notification. we encourage you to periodically review this statement to be informed of how we are protecting your information. contact information if you have questions or complaints regarding this statement, you should first write us at contact@treehugger.com with any questions or concerns. all customer requests will be formally reviewed by our staff. chief privacy officer narrative content group 191 peachtree street atlanta, ga 30303 terms of use note also that your use of the website is subject to our terms of use. most popular right now the top us states for homesteading, tiny homes, and off-grid living here's what the real patch adams has been up to common household products that can kill the coronavirus alley cat laneway house looks a lot bigger than it is jupe health is an 'immediate response to hospital overcrowding' what's hot on facebook teach your child how to read a paper map 20 things to do with chickpeas this pandemic is changing how my family eats cdc lists oil of lemon eucalyptus as comparable to deet for mosquitoes about contact newsletters rss privacy policy copyright © 2020 narrative content group. all rights reserved