about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews privacy policy 1. introduction 1.1. purpose of policy we the parents, wetheparents.org (“us,” “we,” or “company”) is committed to respecting the privacy rights of its customers, visitors, and other users of the company website (the “site”). we created this website privacy policy (this “policy”) to give you confidence as you visit and use the site, and to demonstrate our commitment to fair information practices and the protection of privacy. this policy is only applicable to the site, and not to any other websites that you may be able to access from the site, each of which may have data collection and use practices and policies that differ materially from this policy. 1.2. notice concerning children please note: we are a general audience site, and do not direct any of our content specifically at children under 13 years of age. we understand and are committed to respecting the sensitive nature of children’s privacy online. if we learn or have reason to suspect that a registered site user is under age 13, we will promptly delete any personal information in that user’s account. 2. information collection practices 2.1. what basic information does the company collect? in operating the site, company may include registration, online surveys, and other online forms that ask users to provide their names, e-mail addresses, and other contact information, as well as a user name. company may also request profile information from you, or from your social networking profiles for the purposes including improving the customization, accuracy, and relevance search results and content placements. 2.2. what additional information does company collect? (a) automatic collection. our servers automatically recognize visitors’ domain names and ip addresses (the number assigned to computers on the internet). no personal information about you is revealed in this process. the site may also gather anonymous “traffic data” that does not personally identify you, but that may be helpful for marketing purposes or for improving the services we offer. (b) cookies. from time to time, we may use the standard “cookies” feature of major browser applications that allows us to store a small piece of data on your computer about your visit to our web site. we do not set any personally identifiable information in cookies, nor do we employ any data capture mechanisms on our website other than cookies. cookies help us learn which areas of our site are useful and which areas need improvement. you can choose whether to accept cookies by changing the settings on your browser. however, if you choose to disable this function, your experience at our web site may be diminished and some features may not work as they were intended. if you leave a comment on our site you may opt-in to saving your name, email address and website in cookies. these are for your convenience so that you do not have to fill in your details again when you leave another comment. these cookies will last for one year. if you have an account and you log in to this site, we will set a temporary cookie to determine if your browser accepts cookies. this cookie contains no personal data and is discarded when you close your browser. when you log in, we will also set up several cookies to save your login information and your screen display choices. login cookies last for two days, and screen options cookies last for a year. if you select “remember me”, your login will persist for two weeks. if you log out of your account, the login cookies will be removed. if you edit or publish an article, an additional cookie will be saved in your browser. this cookie includes no personal data and simply indicates the post id of the article you just edited. it expires after 1 day. (c) third party cookies. this site utilizes advertising placement by third party vendors, including google. it is important that you understand that: third party vendors, including google, use cookies to serve ads based on your prior visits to our websites. google’s use of the dart cookie enables it and its partners to serve ads to you based on your visit to our sites and/or other sites on the internet. you may opt out of the use of the dart cookie by visiting the advertising opt-out page. additionally, you may opt out of a third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the network advertising initiative opt-out page. (d) comments. when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. 2.3 lost or stolen information. you must promptly notify us if your credit card, user name, or password is lost, stolen, or used without permission. in such an event, we will remove that credit card number, user name, or password from your account and update our records accordingly. 3. use and sharing of information 3.1. what does company do with collected information? (a) personal information. unless otherwise specified on the site, we may sell or share your personal information with our parent, subsidiaries, affiliates and with carefully selected companies who we think may offer services and/or products that may be of interest to you. if you do not wish to have your personally identifiable information shared with third parties, contact our privacy policy coordinator as described at the end of this document. we may use your personal information to verify your identity, to check your qualifications, or to follow up with transactions initiated on the site. we may also use your contact information to inform you of any changes to the site, or to send you additional information about company. (b) anonymous information. we use anonymous information to analyze our site traffic, but we do not examine this information for individually identifying information. in addition, we may use anonymous ip addresses to help diagnose problems with our server, to administer our site, or to display the content according to your preferences. traffic and transaction information may also be shared with business partners and advertisers on an aggregate and anonymous basis. (c) use of cookies. we may use cookies to deliver content specific to your interests, to save your password so you don’t have to re-enter it each time you visit our site, or for other purposes. promotions or advertisements displayed on our site may contain cookies. we do not have access to or control over information collected by outside advertisers on our site. (d) disclosure of personal information. we may disclose personal information if required to do so by law or in the good-faith belief that such action is necessary to (1) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, (2) protect and defend the rights or property of company or the users of the site, or (3) act under exigent circumstances to protect the safety of the public or users of the site. (e) sale of information. in order to accommodate changes in our business, we may sell or buy portions of our company or other companies or assets, including the information collected through its websites. if company or substantially all of its assets are acquired, customer information will be one of the assets transferred to the acquirer. we may send registered users an email notifying them of the acquisition of we the parents or wetheparents.org or any of its affiliate sites by another company, but are not obligated to do so. (f) access to information. unfortunately, we do not maintain any procedures for you to review or request changes to the information that we collect about you, except that you may request that we remove all information about you from our database by contacting us in accordance with section 6.1 below. (g) how long we retain your data. if you leave a comment, the comment and its metadata are retained indefinitely. this is so we can recognize and approve any follow-up comments automatically instead of holding them in a moderation queue. for users that register on our website (if any), we also store the personal information they provide in their user profile. all users can see, edit, or delete their personal information at any time (except they cannot change their username). website administrators can also see and edit that information. 4. security the site has security measures in place to prevent the loss, misuse, and alteration of the information that we obtain from you, but we make no assurances about our ability to prevent any such loss, misuse, to you or to any third party arising out of any such loss, misuse, or alteration. 5. website areas beyond company’s control 5.1. public forums the site may include interactive forums such as reviews, message boards and chat rooms. please remember that any information that is disclosed in these areas becomes public information and you should exercise caution when deciding to disclose your personal information. 5.2. third party websites the site may contain links to other websites. if you choose to visit other websites, we are not responsible for the privacy practices or content of those other websites, and it is your responsibility to review the privacy policies at those websites to confirm that you understand and agree with their policies. 5.3 embedded content from other websites articles on this site may include embedded content (e.g. videos, images, articles, etc.). embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if the visitor has visited the other website. these websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracking your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. 6. contact information and policy updates 6.1. contacting us if you have any questions about this policy, our practices related to this site, or if you would like to have us remove your information from our database please feel free to contact us. 6.2. updates and changes we reserve the right, at any time, to add to, change, update, or modify this policy, simply by posting such change, update, or modification on the site and without any other notice to you. we the parents may send registered users an email notifying them of any changes to this policy, but is not obligated to do so. any such change, update, or modification will be effective immediately upon posting on the site. it is your responsibility to review this policy from time to time to ensure that you continue to agree with all of its terms. home privacy policy we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest