subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop privacy policy for pinchofyum.com effective january 1, 2020 as the owner of this website (pinchofyum.com, referred to as the “site”), pinch of yum llc understands that your privacy is of critical importance. this privacy policy describes what information we collect from you via the site and how we use and disclose such information. what information we collect the website collects information that identifies, relates to, describes, is capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked, directly or indirectly, with a particular consumer or household (“personal information”). the website has collected the following categories of personal information from you: identifiers: this category includes your: real name, alias, postal address, unique personal identifier, online identifier, internet protocol (“ip”) address, email address, account name, social security number, driver’s license number, passport number, or other similar identifiers. the website does collect information in this category. personal information as described in california customer records statute (ca code 1798.80): this includes your: name, signature, social security number, passport number, driver’s license or state identification card number, insurance policy number, education, employment, employment history, bank account number, credit card number, debit card number, or any other financial information, medical information, or health insurance information. the website does collect information in this category. protected classification characteristics (under california or federal law). this includes: age (over age 40), race, color, ancestry, national origin, citizenship, religion or creed, marital status, medical condition, physical or mental health disability, sex (including gender, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy or childbirth and related medical conditions), sexual orientation, veteran or military status, or genetic information. the website does not collect information in this category. commercial information: this includes records of personal property, products, or services purchased, obtained, or considered, or other purchasing or consuming histories or tendencies. the website does not collect information in this category. biometric information: this includes: an individual’s physiological, biological or behavioral characteristics, including an individual’s dna, that can be used, singly or in combination with each other or with other identifying data, to establish individual identity. the website does not collect information in this category. internet or other electronic network activity information: this includes, but is not limited to, browsing history, search history, and information regarding a consumer’s interaction with the website, application, or advertisement. the website does collect information in this category. geolocation data: this includes your physical location or movements. the website does not collect information in this category. audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or other similar information: the website does not collect information in this category. professional or employment-related information: this may include your current or past employment history or other information related thereto. the website does not collect information in this category. education information: this is defined as information that is not publicly available personally identifiable information as defined in the family educational rights and privacy act, which includes: records directly related to a student maintained by an educational institution or party acting on its behalf, such as grades, transcripts, class lists, schedule, student identification codes, student financial information, or student disciplinary records. the website does not collect information in this category. inferences drawn from personal information: this includes inferences drawn from the personal information collected by the website to create a profile about a consumer reflecting the consumer’s preferences, characteristics, psychological trends, predispositions, behavior, attitudes, intelligence, abilities, and aptitudes. the website does not collect information in this category. what information we disclose for a business purpose from time to time, the website uses your personal information for business purposes. a “business purpose” is defined as the use of personal information for the business’ or a service provider’s operational purposes, or other notified purposes, provided that the use of personal information shall be reasonably necessary and proportionate to achieve the operational purpose for which the personal information was collected or processed or for another operational purpose that is compatible with the context in which the personal information was collected. the website has collected the following categories of personal information in the past twelve months: please review the definitions above for each category. identifiers: the website has disclosed information in this category in the past twelve months for a business purpose. we have used the following information when voluntarily entered: name and email address. we have used the following information, which has been automatically collected or obtained through cookies: ip address. personal information as described in california customer records statute (ca code 1798.80): we have used the following information in the past twelve months when voluntarily entered: name. protected classification characteristics (under california or federal law). we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. commercial information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. biometric information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. internet or other electronic network activity information: we have used the following information in the past twelve months for business purposes, been collected or obtained through cookies: browsing history and information regarding your interaction with the website and its newsletters. geolocation data: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or other similar information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. professional or employment-related information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. education information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. inferences drawn from personal information: we have not used the information in this category for a business purpose in the past twelve months. what information we sell from time to time, the websites may sell your personal information. a “sale” is defined as “selling, renting, releasing, disclosing, disseminating, making available, transferring, or otherwise communicating orally, in writing, or by electronic or other means, a consumer’s personal information by the business to another business or a third party for monetary or other valuable consideration. the websites have sold the following categories of personal information from you in the past twelve months: identifiers: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. personal information as described in california customer records statute (ca code 1798.80): we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. protected classification characteristics (under california or federal law). we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. commercial information: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. biometric information: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. internet or other electronic network activity information: we have sold information in this category in the past twelve months through display ads. more information is provided below. geolocation data: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. audio, electronic, visual, thermal, olfactory, or other similar information: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. professional or employment-related information: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. education information: we have not sold any information in this category in the past twelve months. inferences drawn from personal information: we have sold information in this category in the past twelve months through display ads. more information is provided below. how we collect your information information you voluntarily submit to the site: we may collect personal information from you such as your name or email address. for example, you may voluntarily submit information to the site by leaving a comment, subscribing to a newsletter, or submitting a contact form. in addition, we may ask you to create a user profile, which would allow you to create a username and password. we will store the username, but your password will not be visible in our records. information we collect from others: we may receive information about you from other sources. for example, if you use a third-party software through the site, they may transfer information to us for fulfillment. automatically-collected information: we automatically collect certain information about you and the device with which you access the website. for example, when you use the website, we will log your ip address, operating system type, browser type, referring website, pages you viewed, and the dates/times when you accessed the website. we may also collect information about actions you take when using the website, such as links clicked. cookies: we may log information using cookies, which are small data files stored on your browser by the website. we may use both session cookies, which expire when you close your browser, and persistent cookies, which stay on your browser until deleted, to provide you with a more personalized experience on the website. different ways we collect information are detailed below. we reserve the right to change this list in our sole discretion. our use of cookies a cookie is a file containing an identifier (a string of letters and numbers) that is sent by a web server to a web browser and is stored by the browser. the identifier is then sent back to the server each time the browser requests a page from the server. cookies may be either “persistent” cookies or “session” cookies: a persistent cookie will be stored by a web browser and will remain valid until its set expiry date, unless deleted by the user before the expiry date; a session cookie, on the other hand, will expire at the end of the user session, when the web browser is closed. cookies do not typically contain any information that personally identifies a user, but personal information that we store about you may be linked to the information stored in and obtained from cookies. we use cookies for the following purposes: (a) authentication: we use cookies to identify you when you visit our website and as you navigate our website; (b) email: we use cookies to help us to send relevant emails to users who have subscribed to our email list; (c) security: we use cookies as an element of the security measures used to protect user accounts, including preventing fraudulent use of login credentials, and to protect our website and services generally; (d) advertising: we use cookies to help us to display advertisements that will be relevant to you; and (e) analysis: we use cookies to help us to analyze the use and performance of our website and services; most browsers allow you to refuse to accept cookies and to delete cookies. the methods for doing so vary from browser to browser, and from version to version. you can, however, obtain up-to-date information about blocking and deleting cookies via these links: (a) https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en (chrome); (b) https://support.mozilla.org/en-us/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences (firefox); (c) http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/cookies/ (opera); (d) https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies (internet explorer); (e) https://support.apple.com/en-gb/guide/safari/manage-cookies-and-website-data-sfri11471/mac (safari); and (f) https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/windows–10-microsoft-edge-and-privacy(edge). please note that blocking cookies may have a negative impact on the functions of many websites, including our site. some features of the site may cease to be available to you. google analytics we use google analytics to analyze the use of our website. google analytics gathers information about website use by means of cookie with a randomly generated client id on your browser. google does use your personal information such as your ip address in order to capture the reporting for the website regarding the usage. you may opt out of google analytics with a browser add-on, which is available here. google’s privacy policy is available at: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en-us comments if you leave a comment on our site you may opt-in to save your name, email address and website in cookies. these are for your convenience so that you do not have to fill in your details again when you leave another comment. these cookies will last for one year. if you have an account and you log in to this site, we will set a temporary cookie to determine if your browser accepts cookies. this cookie contains no personal data and is discarded when you close your browser. when you log in, we will also set up several cookies to save your login information and your screen display choices. login cookies last for two days, and screen options cookies last for a year. if you select “remember me”, your login will persist for two weeks. if you log out of your account, the login cookies will be removed. if you edit or publish an article, an additional cookie will be saved in your browser. this cookie includes no personal data and simply indicates the post id of the article you just edited. it expires after 1 day. when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. visitor comments may be checked through an automated spam detection service. interest-based advertising advertising privacy statement this site is affiliated with adthrive, llc (“adthrive”) for the purposes of placing advertising on the site. adthrive uses standard and widely-available tools for the placement and serving of ads, including those provided by google, inc. and its affiliates. we publish interest-based advertisements on the site; that is, ads that are tailored to reflect your interests. to help understand your interests, adthrive, google and our other advertising partners will track your behavior on our website and on other websites across the internet using cookies. a cookie is a file containing an identifier (a string of letters and numbers) that is sent by a web server to a web browser and is stored by the browser. the identifier is then sent back to the server each time the browser requests a page from the server. cookies may be either “persistent” cookies or “session” cookies: a persistent cookie will be stored by a web browser and will remain valid until its set expiry date, unless deleted by the user before the expiry date; a session cookie, on the other hand, will expire at the end of the user session, when the web browser is closed. cookies do not typically contain any information that personally identifies a user, but personal information that we store about you may be linked to the information stored in and obtained from cookies. by using this website, you consent to the use of such cookies and the sharing of data captured by such cookies with adthrive, google, and our other third-party partners. you can view, delete or add interest categories associated with your browser by visiting: https://adssettings.google.com. you can also opt out of the network cookie using those settings or using the network advertising initiative’s multi-cookie opt-out mechanism at: http://optout.networkadvertising.org. however, these opt-out mechanisms themselves use cookies, and if you clear the cookies from your browser your opt-out will not be maintained. for european economic area residents if you reside in a country in the european economic area (eea), then under the gdpr and applicable data protection laws you have the rights, among other things, to access your personal data, have us erase it, and/or restrict its further processing. if you wish to access or delete your personal data (if any) maintained by us or adthrive related to advertising on the site, you can contact us at [email protected] and contact adthrive at [email protected]. if you wish to see a list of the advertising partners we work with or change which of those partners track your behavior using cookies, click the ad preferences link at the bottom of the site. (available in the eu.) for california residents california law gives residents the right to opt out of the “sale” of their personal information to third parties, including for advertising purposes. under california law, the sharing of your information with a service provider for advertising purposes could be considered a “sale.” to opt out of the sharing of your information for advertising information, [(if your site does not use infinite scroll, include this wording) click the opt out link provided in the footer of this page] [(if your site uses infinite scroll, include this wording) click the opt out link provided at the end of the post]. you also have the right to request from us the categories of personal information that we have shared and the categories of third parties to whom the information was provided. to make such a request, please contact us at [email protected]. to be clear we do not share your name, contact information, or any other sensitive information with third parties, and the categories of third parties that we share information with for advertising purposes are supply side platforms, programmatic advertising exchanges, and demand side platforms. email addresses we may collect your email address, but only if you voluntarily provide it to us. this may occur, for example, if you sign up to receive an email newsletter, or enter a promotion. we will use your email address for the purposes for which you provided it to us, and also from time to time to send you emails regarding the site or other products or services that we believe may be of interest to you. you may opt out of such email communications at any time by clicking the “unsubscribe” button in the email. we will not share your email address with any third parties. if you are a resident of a country in the european economic area (eea), please refer to the section below entitled “additional rights of eea residents.” registration or account data we may collect other information from you when you register with our site in order to use various features. such information could include your name, birthday, postal code, screen name, and password (if applicable). as you use the site, we could collect other data that you provide voluntarily (such as comments that you post). we may also collect information about you through other methods, including research surveys, social media platforms, verification services, data services, as well as public sources. we may combine this data with your registration data in order to maintain a more thorough profile. we may use your personally-identifying information for a variety of our internal business purposes, such as creating a better user experience for the site, diagnosing and troubleshooting malfunctions on the site, better understanding how the site is used, and making personalized recommendations to you. if you are a resident of a country in the european economic area (eea), please refer to the section below entitled “additional rights of eea residents.” transactional data we may process information relating to transactions, including purchases of goods and services, that you enter into with us and/or through our site (“transactional data”). the transactional data may include your contact details, your card details and the transaction details. the transaction data may be processed for the purpose of supplying the purchased goods and services and keeping proper records of those transactions. payment processing on our site is handled by our payment services providers, paypal and stripe. we will share transaction data with our payment services providers only to the extent necessary for the purposes of processing your payments, refunding such payments and dealing with complaints and queries relating to such payments and refunds. you can find information about the payment services providers’ privacy policies and practices at https://www.paypal.com/us/webapps/mpp/ua/privacy-full and https://stripe.com/privacy. hotjar we use hotjar in order to better understand our users’ needs and to optimize this service and experience. hotjar is a technology service that helps us better understand our users’ experience (e.g. how much time they spend on which pages, which links they choose to click, what users do and don’t like, etc.) and this enables us to build and maintain our service with user feedback. hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on our users’ behavior and their devices (in particular device’s ip address (captured and stored only in anonymized form), device screen size, device type (unique device identifiers), browser information, geographic location (country only), preferred language used to display our website). hotjar stores this information in a pseudonymized user profile. neither hotjar nor we will ever use this information to identify individual users or to match it with further data on an individual user. for further details, please see hotjar’s privacy policy by clicking on this link. you can opt-out to the creation of a user profile, hotjar’s storing of data about your usage of our site and hotjar’s use of tracking cookies on other websites by following this opt-out link. one signal pinch of yum uses one signal to send web notifications for new posts and other recipes. one signal only collects a user’s country of residence and ip address (however, ip addresses are not collected for users in the european union). any information obtained by one signal is not shared with any third parties. leadpages pinch of yum uses leadpages to send information such as your name and email address to other services listed here, such as activecampaign. this information is used by leadpages in accordance with their privacy policy. cloudflare pinch of yum uses cloudflare for website security and caching. any personal information obtained by cloudflare is not shared with any third parties. sponsored content tracking pixels this site may engage in sponsored campaigns with various influencer networks, brands, and agencies. all sponsored content is duly disclosed in accordance with the ftc’s requirements. from time to time, these sponsored campaigns utilize tracking pixels (aka web beacons), which may contain cookies to collect data regarding usage and audience. this information is collected by the sponsoring company to track the results of the campaign. no personally identifiable information collected by the site is used in conjunction with these tracking pixels. affiliate program participation the site may engage in affiliate marketing, which is done by embedding tracking links into the site. if you click on a link for an affiliate partnership, a cookie will be placed on your browser to track any sales for purposes of commissions. pinch of yum, llc is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and links to amazon.com. as an amazon associate, the site earns from qualifying purchases. as part of this amazon associates program, the site will post customized links, provided by amazon, to track the referrals to their website. this program utilizes cookies to track visits for the purposes of assigning commission on these sales. newsletters on the site, you may subscribe to our newsletter, which may be used for advertising purposes. all newsletters sent may contain tracking pixels. the pixel is embedded in emails and allows an analysis of the success of online marketing campaigns. because of these tracking pixels, we may see if and when you open an email and which links within the email you click. also, this allows the site to adapt the content of future newsletters to the interests of the user. this behavior will not be passed on to third parties. third-party use of personal information we may share your information with third parties when you explicitly authorize us to share your information. additionally, the site may use third-party service providers to service various aspects of the site, which are detailed herein. each third-party service provider’s use of your personal information is dictated by their respective privacy policies. at this time, your personal information is not shared with any other third-party applications. this may be amended from time to time in the site’s sole discretion. except when required by law, we will not sell, distribute, or reveal your email addresses or other personal information without your consent; however, we may disclose or transfer personal information collected through the site to third parties who acquire all or a portion of our business, which may be the result of a merger, consolidation, or purchase of all or a portion of our assets, or in connection with any bankruptcy or reorganization proceeding brought by or against us. what rights we have over your data if you have an account on this site, or have left comments, you can request to receive an exported file of the personal data we hold about you, including any data you have provided to us. you can also request that we erase any personal data we hold about you. this does not include any data we are obliged to keep for administrative, legal, or security purposes. media if you upload images to the website, you should avoid uploading images with embedded location data (exif gps) included. visitors to the website can download and extract any location data from images on the website. embedded content from other sites articles on this site may include embedded content (e.g. videos, images, articles, etc.). embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if the visitor has visited the other website. these websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracking your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. anonymous data from time to time, we may use anonymous data, which does not identify you alone, or when combined with data from other parties. this type of anonymous data may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. examples of this anonymous data may include analytics or information collected from cookies. publicly visible information if you create a user profile on the website or leave a comment, certain information may be publicly visible. sensitive personal information at no time should you submit sensitive personal information to the website. this includes your social security number, information regarding race or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious beliefs, health information, criminal background, or trade union memberships. if you elect to submit such information to us, it will be subject to this privacy policy. children’s information the website does not knowingly collect any personally identifiable information from children under the age of 16. if a parent or guardian believes that the website has personally identifiable information of a child under the age of 16 in its database, please contact us immediately at [email protected] and we will use our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records. additional rights of eea (european economic area) residents if you are a resident of a country in the eea, you have the rights, among others, to: (i) access your personal data (ii) ensure the accuracy of your personal data (iii) the right to have us delete your personal data (iv) the right to restrict further processing of your personal data, and (v) the right to complain to a supervisory authority in your country of residence in the event that data is misused if you believe that our processing of your personal information infringes data protection laws, you have a legal right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority responsible for data protection. you may do so in the eu member state of your residence, your place of work or the place of the alleged infringement. you may exercise any of your rights in relation to your personal data by written notice to us addressed to the following: eu privacy complaints 2400 north 2nd street suite #311 minneapolis, mn 55411 additional rights of california residents if you are a resident of california, you are entitled to certain information and have certain rights under the california consumer protection act (“ccpa”). throughout this policy, we have disclosed what information we collect, how it is used, and the types of third parties that may receive your information. under ccpa, you also have the following rights: right to access – you have the right to request that we disclose certain information to you about the personal information we collect and how it has been used over the past 12 months. after we receive and confirm your verifiable consumer request, we will disclose the following: the categories of your personal information we collected; the categories of your personal information we sold; the categories of any third parties to whom we have sold your personal information; a list of which categories of your personal information we sold to each party; and, the categories of your personal information we disclose for business purposes. right to deletion – you have the right to request that we delete your personal information. please note that this right does not apply when we need to retain your personal information in order to do the following: provide goods or services to you; detect or resolve security or functionality-related issues; comply with the law; conduct research in the public interest; safeguard the right to free speech; or, carry out any actions for internal purposes that you might reasonably expect. right to non-discrimination – you have the right not to be discriminated against for exercising your rights under ccpa. in particular, we may not: deny you goods or services; charge you different prices for goods or services, whether through denying benefits or imposing penalties; provide you with a different level or quality of goods or services; or, threaten you with any of the above. how to submit a verifiable consumer request to exercise these rights, you must submit a verifiable consumer request to us by: contacting us at [email protected] please note that only you, or a person registered with the california secretary of state that you authorize to act on your behalf, may make a verifiable consumer request related to your personal information. you may also make a request on behalf of a minor child. you may only make a request under these rights twice in a twelve-month period. your verifiable consumer request must: provide sufficient information that allows us to reasonably verify you are the person about whom we collected personal information (or that it is an authorized representative acting on your behalf); describe your request with sufficient detail that allows us to properly understand and respond to it. nevada privacy of information collected on the internet from consumers act pursuant to the nevada privacy of information collected on the internet from consumers act (“npicica”), nevada residents may opt out of the sale of any personal information. as described above, your personal information may be shared with third-party service providers/operators in order to fulfill purchased products or to communicate with you. we do not sell (which is defined in the npicica as “the exchange of covered information for monetary consideration by the operator to a person for the person to license or sell the covered information to additional persons”) your covered information, which includes: your first and last name; your address; your email address; your phone number; your social security number; any identifier that would allow you to be contacted either physically or online; or, any other information concerning you, collected from you by the website and maintained by us, in combination with an identifier in a form that makes the information personally identifiable. if you have any questions regarding our usage of your personal information, please email [email protected]. sale of business or assets in the event that the site or substantially all of its assets is sold or disposed of as a going concern, whether by merger, sale of assets or otherwise, or in the event of an insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership, the information we have collected about you may be one of the assets sold or merged in connection with that transaction. changes to the privacy policy we may change this privacy policy from time to time. the most recent version of the privacy policy will always be posted on the site, with the “effective date” posted at the top of the policy. we may revise and update this privacy policy if our practices change, as technology changes, or as we add new services or change existing ones. if we make any material changes to our privacy policy or how we handle your personal information, or we are going to use any personal information in a manner that is materially different from that stated in our privacy policy at the time we collected such information, we will give you a reasonable opportunity to consent to the change. if you do not consent, your personal information will be used as agreed to under the terms of the privacy policy in effect at the time we obtained that information. by using our site or services after the effective date, you are deemed to consent to our then-current privacy policy. we will use information previously obtained in accordance with the privacy policy in effect when the information was obtained from you. contacting us if you have any questions about this privacy policy or the practices of this site, please contact us at [email protected] or write to us at: pinch of yum llc 3600 lexington ave. n #211 shoreview, mn 55126 hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. popular posts dessert the best soft chocolate chip cookies dinner baked mozzarella chicken rolls vegetarian vegan crunchwrap supreme breakfast cinnamon sugar apple cake blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest