privacy requests form this form should be used to make privacy requests or to ask privacy-related questions. for an overview of rights that may be available to you, please refer to our privacy notice. if you are seeking correction of your personal information, please log in to your account and update your information or contact your customer support team. if you are making a request on behalf of someone else, please use the form located here. * all fields are required unless marked optional. individual's information state of residence this form is currently available to california residents only. however, you can rest assured, we do not “sell” your information in the traditional sense of the word. we may use cookies, beacons or similar technologies to improve your website experience with us. if you have questions about our use of cookies, please review our privacy notice. country of residence which company is this request intended for? a small orange appmachine arvixe bigrock bizland bluehost buydomains constant contact domain.com dotster ecomdash ehost fastdomain fatcow homestead technologies, inc hostgator hostmonster ipage ipower jdi backup justcloud justhost logicboxes mojo marketplace public domain registry resellerclub site5 siteblog sitebuilder sitelio sitey social booster typepad vpslink websitebuilder other what would you like to do? obtain the information we have about you receive a copy of the information we have about you for yourself or to provide to a third party access the information we have about you access the information we have about you correct the information we have about you delete the information we have about you ask us to transfer your information to a third party or to provide you with a copy of your information in a portable format to provide to a third party. ask us not to sell the information we have about you to a third party ask us not to use the information we have about you in certain ways ask us not to make decisions about you using your information without human intervention provide us with feedback ask us to stop sending you marketing messages ask us a privacy question something else verify your identity in order to respond to your request, we need you to verify your identity. please provide as much information as you can to help us respond to your request. please provide us with more details regarding this request please provide us with your username and your main account email address or domain name. or please provide us with the following identity verification options located below. or please provide 2 out of 4 of the following: what payment method does your account use? prepay monthly pay please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. please provide us with one of the following identity verification options located below. or please provide us with the following identity verification options located below. or please provide us with the following identity verification options located below. change image