skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about privacy policy share tweet pin last updated: 18 may 2018 skint media limited, who runs the website skintdad.co.uk, respects your privacy and are committed to protecting it. this privacy policy tells you what we do with your personal information and data relating to you when you use skintdad.co.uk, including: what we may collect why we collect it how we collect it and how it may be used how we may share it how long we keep your data your rights and choices about the data we collect how we keep it safe and secure who we are we are skint media limited and run the website skint dad (https://skintdad.co.uk). skint media limited is a company incorporated and registered in england and wales with company number 09991508. our registered office is at 1st floor 8b lonsdale gardens, tunbridge wells, kent, united kingdom, tn1 1nu. skint media limited is registered as a data controller with the information commissioner’s office (ico) under registration number za203267. if you would like any more information or you have any comments about our privacy policy please either write to us at skint media limited, 22 church road, tunbridge wells, kent, tn1 1jp or email us at [email protected]dad.co.uk. skint media limited will be referred to in this policy as “we“, “us” or “our” and skintdad.co.uk will be referred to as “website“. what personal information we collect information you may give us you may provide personal information to us such as your name or email address. for example, you may voluntarily submit information to us by subscribing to the skint list email newsletter or submitting a contact form. information we collect we automatically collect certain anonymous information about your browsing behaviour to help us analyse the website and our service. for example, when you use the website, we will log your ip address, operating system type, browser type, referring website, pages you viewed or searched for, how long you visited, and the dates/times when you accessed the website. we also collect information about actions you take when using the website, such as links clicked. why we collect your personal information we may use your personal information and data to enhance and personalise your experience and provide you with offers and services that may be of interest to you. for example, we may: send you money saving updates by email, special offers or other information we think you may find interesting and that is relevant to you under legitimate interests. use the information we collect to enable us to administer the website, carry out analysis and improve the website. how we collect and use your personal information we may use third-party service providers to service various aspects of the website. each third-party service provider’s use of your personal information is dictated by their own privacy policies. contact form when you contact us via a contact form you may need to provide your email address. where necessary, we will respond to you via email. we will not use your personal information for any other purposes. you are able to use the contact form to send us a message, but we will be unable to respond to you. newsletter when you register for the skint list email newsletter you need to provide your email address. we use your email to send you regular money saving updates, special offers or other information we think you will find interesting. all newsletters sent may contain tracking pixels. the pixel is embedded in emails and allows an analysis of the success of campaigns. because of these tracking pixels, we may see if and when you open an email and which links within the email you click. if you no longer want to receive the skint list newsletter, there is always an unsubscribe option in every email. alternatively, you can unsubscribe here. sumo is the service we use to collect email addresses. please refer to sumo’s privacy policy for further information. mailchimp is the service we use for delivery of email updates and newsletters. they store your name and email address for purposes of delivering such communications. please refer to mail chimp’s privacy policy for further information. comments when you leave a comment, your name will appear on the site, but your email will not be shown. you can choose to leave a comment anonymously. your email and ip addresses cannot be seen by us. disqus is the service we use to administer comments. they collect your personal information including your email address, name and ip address, and browser details to help spam detection. please refer to disqus’ privacy policy for further information. comments left on the website may be used in later research or in other articles on the website. cookies we use cookies, which are small data files stored on your browser. it helps the website to remember information about your visit, like your preferred language and other settings. this can make your next visit easier and the site more useful to you. cookies play an important role. without them, using the web would be a much more frustrating experience. we may use session cookies, which expire when you close your browser, and persistent cookies, which stay on your browser until deleted. we also use traffic log cookies to see which pages are being used, which helps us improve our website. we only use this for statistical analysis and then the data is removed from the system. we use cookies to improve your experience of using the website and tailoring operations to your needs, likes and dislikes by gathering and remembering information about your preferences. the cookies cannot get access to your device or provide any information about you, other than the data you choose to share with us. you can choose to accept or decline cookies. you can modify or delete cookies in your browser settings, however, this may prevent you from taking full advantage of this website. please note that links displayed to other sites on our website may also use cookies, over which we have no control. you can find a list of our cookies here: https://skintdad.co.uk/cookie-policy/ to learn more about cookies, see the following websites: www.allaboutcookies.org www.google.com/policies/technologies/cookies/ tracking and analytics we may use google analytics and tracking tools to collect anonymised data that cannot identify you but enables us to improve our website and deliver relevant and useful content to you. google analytics may capture your ip address, but no other personal information is captured. you can opt out of google analytics by going to https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout. website hosting the website is hosted by garbott ltd. personal information that may be collected when you visit the website will not be shared with garbott ltd. all data is stored on servers based in the uk. display ads we may use mediavine, a third-party advertising company, to serve content and advertisements when you visit the website, that we think is relevant to your interests. they may use cookies, as noted above. please refer to mediavine’s privacy policy for more information. retargeting ads from time to time, the website may engage in retargeting efforts with third-party companies, such as google, facebook, twitter, or instagram, in order to market the website. these companies use cookies to serve ads based on your past visits to the website. affiliate programs we may engage in affiliate marketing, which is done by embedding tracking links into the website. if you click on a link for an affiliate partnership, a cookie will be placed on your browser to track any sales for purposes of commissions. this will not cost you any extra. skint media limited is a participant in the amazon eu associates programme, an affiliate advertising programme designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.co.uk. embedded content from other websites articles on this site may include embedded content (e.g. videos, images, articles, etc.). embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if you visited the other website. these websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracing your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. at this time, your personal information is not shared with any other third-party applications or services. this list may be amended from time to time in the website’s sole discretion. who we share your data with we keep all your personal information confidential. we will not sell, distribute or lease your personal information to third parties unless we have your permission, are required to do so by law, or must in connection with legal proceedings. in the event of a sale of the website, merger or if the website is acquired by another company, we may transfer your personal information and data to a third party, but all data would be subject to this privacy policy and will not be transferred unless the third party can commit to keeping your personal information secure and in accordance with applicable privacy laws. we may also share anonymous aggregated data use with others, but will not include any personal information that could identify you. this is provided for marketing, advertising or other uses. for example, this may be analytics or information collected from cookies. how long we retain your data we will only keep your personal information for the purposes outlined in this privacy policy. when these purposes have expired, or are no longer relevant, or you have withdrawn your consent for us to use your personal information (and we have no other lawful basis to use such data), we will delete such data. if you have not used our services for a reasonable amount of time, we may contact you to ensure you are still happy to receive communications. we may also delete your personal information. even if we delete your personal information, it may remain on a back-up or in archives. please refer to other third-party applications or services used by this website for further details on their data retention policies. what rights you have over your data you have rights to your own personal information: opt-out – at any time, you may opt-out of future email communications by following the unsubscribe links in our emails or you can unsubscribe from our newsletter here. you may also notify us by email to be removed from our mailing list. access – you may request to access the personal information we have about you by submitting a request to us. amend – if you believe that any information we are holding on you is incorrect or incomplete, please write to or email us as soon as possible, at the above address. we will promptly correct any information found to be incorrect. forget – in certain situations, you may request that we erase or forget your personal data. restrict – in certain circumstances, you may request to limit the way we can use your personal information. data portability – you can ask that we move, copy or transfer your personal information. please note that we may need to retain certain information for recordkeeping purposes or to complete transactions, or when required by law. if you want to exercise any of your rights or you have any concerns about how we use your personal information and data, please email us at [email protected] or write to us at skint media limited, 22 church road, tunbridge wells, kent, tn1 1jp. if you have made a complaint and are not happy with our response you have the right to refer your complaint to the uk information commissioner’s office (ico): https://ico.org.uk/. how we store and protect your data we are committed to ensuring that your information is secure. in order to prevent unauthorised access or disclosure, we have put in place suitable physical, electronic and managerial procedures to safeguard and secure the information we collect online. our servers are located in the uk. however, from time to time, for operational reasons, we may need to transfer your personal information outside the eu. your personal information may also be processed by service providers who operate outside of the eu. these countries may have different and/or less stringent privacy/data protection and data security rules than we have in the uk. by submitting your personal information, you agree to the transfer of your data to countries outside the eea. we will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy. when we look to work with new service providers, we will continue to make sure your personal information is protected and that they have suitable security measures in place, to the same standards as if the data was in europe. although we do as much as we can to keep your data safe, information shared via the internet is not completely secure. we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our website and any transmission is at your own risk. once we have received your personal information, we will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised access. additional information links to other websites our website may contain links to other websites of interest. however, once you have used these links to leave our site, you should note that we do not have any control over that other website. therefore, we cannot be responsible for the protection and privacy of any information which you provide whilst visiting such sites and such sites are not governed by this privacy statement. you should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. in addition, if you linked to our website from a third party site, we cannot be responsible for the privacy policy and practices of the owners of that third-party site. we recommend you check the privacy policy of that third-party site. use of children’s personal information we do not knowingly collect or store any personal information about or related to children under the age of 18. if we are aware that a child has submitted their personal information, we will remove their personal data from our records. if you are a parent or legal guardian of a child who has given us personal information, please contact us immediately so we can delete it at [email protected] changes we regularly review and, where necessary, update our privacy policy in line with the law, best practice or changes to our website services. if we plan to use personal data for a new purpose, we update our privacy policy and will communicate the changes to individuals via email before starting any new processing. contact information at any time, please contact us at [email protected] for questions related to this privacy policy or write to us at skint media limited, 22 church road, tunbridge wells, kent, tn1 1jp. last updated: 18 may 2018 contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about