privacy policy – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart privacy policy ps collects important customer information in an effort to enhance and personalize your shopping experience. this information allows us to communicate with our customers about our products, services and promotions. the privacy policy (the “privacy policy”) described below covers the entire ps website (“the site,” “we,” “us,” or “our”). phrases such as “you,” “your” and other similar expressions refer to our customers, or the specific users of this site. by visiting and using the site, you accept the practices described in this privacy policy. collected information when you place an order, submit your account information or participate in ps promotions or surveys, our site collects your personal information such as your name, e-mail address, mailing address and payment information (credit card numbers and banking accounts). ps will use your information collected online to process and fulfill your order. additionally, your e-mail address may be collected at various points within the site (including when you place an order with us) so that we can send you any necessary e-mail messages related to your order, such as order and shipping confirmations. in addition, we maintain a record of your purchase history, product interests, and whatever other membership details that might enable us to improve your shopping experience. analytics such as site use and traffic patterns are also considered to help us improve the design of our website, the products we make and exclusive services we offer. at ps, we understand and recognize that we must maintain and use customer information responsibly. please note: you are not required to submit any information to our site. however, without providing the requested information, you may be unable to access certain features of our site, including viewing our showroom, placing an order or logging into any other ps membership-related services. facebook using facebook as well as other site connection methods, we may utilize your personal data to better your individual ps experience. we take your privacy seriously and abide by all facebook terms, policies and agreements. your data is kept secure and no actions are taken on your behalf without prior permission. additional means of obtaining information cookies as you navigate our site, your preferences are remembered through the temporary use of “session” cookies. cookies enable our systems to gather information about your browser as well as monitor the navigational patterns you take while browsing the site. site users have the option to accept or disable cookies at any time through their browsers. if you choose to disable your cookies, your user experience may be limited. site statistics web data is collected to monitor user trends on our site. analytical data such as hits to our server, traffic patterns and page views shows us where our audience is coming from and how they interact with us online. this type of collected information does not personally identify specific site users. in addition, like most websites, our site may utilize “web beacons,” “pixel tags” or other tracking technologies to help us study the actions of our users through non-personally identifiable information. this data may be aggregated with similar data collected from other users to help us improve ps products, services and our overall site experience. information sharing with outside parties ps will never share, rent or sell your e-mail address for any reason. we do not share your personal information with third-party companies, though we may provide aggregate site statistics and related information to reputable third party vendors. this data will never include personal information. we do not share credit card information with third parties except for the purpose of processing your order payment and as required by law. if for any reason you choose to access a third party website linked to our site, you do so at your own risk. we are not held responsible for how these outside parties collect, use, protect or disclose the information you provide them. age requirement lifestylebyps.com is intended for users who are 18 years of age and older. if you are under the age of 18, you are not permitted to submit any personal information to us. security we employ top physical, electronic, and administrative safety measures to assist us in protecting your personal information and credit card data. these safeguards help us to prevent fraud and unauthorized access as well as maintain data accuracy. in addition, we use professionally reasonable efforts to block access to your personal information from ps employees and corporate partners to ensure your personal information is always kept safe. modification of policies it is at our sole discretion that ps may modify this privacy policy to better serve our customers. please check back often to review any new modifications that have been made. summary ps takes your privacy seriously. when connecting with us, we want our customers to feel confident that their personal information and credit card data is protected. just as we are dedicated to bringing you the very best products, we are equally committed to providing our customers with a safe and secure shopping experience. the personal information we collect from our site helps us better understand the interests of our audience in an ongoing effort to bring you improved service. if you have questions or suggestions regarding our privacy standards please email care@lifestylebyps.com disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search