home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks privacy policy brain pickings is a one-woman labor of love — not a corporation or an institution or a media enterprise. there is no advertising on the site, and therefore most of the standard privacy issues that plague the rest of the internet are of no concern. but here is a privacy policy, kindly advised by a lawyer friend, to tell you what information my website does receive from you and what happens to it. information you provide newsletter: if you sign up to receive the brain pickings newsletter, you provide your name and email address, which are used solely for the delivery of the newsletter to your inbox. i would never share them with any “third parties.” you can always unsubscribe by clicking the red unsubscribe link in the top right corner of any edition of the newsletter. donations: if you choose to donate to brain pickings — thank you! — you provide your name, donation amount, and payment card information. the secure financial service provider that handles these transactions (called braintree) will receive your payment card information, which will only be used to process your donation. (if you support on a monthly basis, you can cancel your recurring donation at any time.) communications: if you contact me via email, either by writing to me directly or by replying to the automated email newsletter, i will receive your email address and any other information you choose to provide. information automatically collected usage information: brain pickings lives on the publishing platform wordpress, which includes a statistical analytics feature to help publishers understand how their readers use their websites. this means that anonymized information of the pages brain pickings readers visit and the times of those visits are represented in these statistics. wordpress may add other features to their analytics at any time, which will be available to me as a publisher, though i don’t actually look at these statistics. what brain pickings does with your information i use your information solely to communicate with you if you have opted in to receive the newsletter, to facilitate donations, and to better understand how you use the site in order to improve it. i don’t share your information with any “third parties,” though it does live — securely — within the external services that deliver the email newsletter (mailchimp) and process donations (braintree). other data transfers: i’m told i need to state that because brain pickings is based in the united states, if you visit the website from another country, your data may be transferred to the united states and other countries that may not have the same data protection laws as the country in which you initially provided information. (i’m not exactly sure what this means, but there we have it.) data security: i do everything i can to make brain pickings and your information as secure as possible. however, this is the internet — no security measures can be 100% secure for reasons far beyond any one person’s intent and control. i too, along with my entire website and any data related to it, can be on the receiving end of some cyberattack at any given moment. but let’s not think such grim thoughts. print article email article donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.