about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ privacy policy effective as of may 25, 2018 — revised december 31, 2019 as the owner of cookieandkate.com (the “site”), cookie and kate llc (“we” or “us”) understand that your privacy is of critical importance. this privacy policy describes what information we collect from you via the site and how we use and disclose such information. our use of cookies a cookie is a file containing an identifier (a string of letters and numbers) that is sent by a web server to a web browser and is stored by the browser. the identifier is then sent back to the server each time the browser requests a page from the server. cookies may be either “persistent” cookies or “session” cookies: a persistent cookie will be stored by a web browser and will remain valid until its set expiry date, unless deleted by the user before the expiry date; a session cookie, on the other hand, will expire at the end of the user session, when the web browser is closed. cookies do not typically contain any information that personally identifies a user, but personal information that we store about you may be linked to the information stored in and obtained from cookies. we use cookies for the following purposes: (a) authentication – we use cookies to identify you when you visit our website and as you navigate our website; (b) status – we use cookies to help us to determine if you are logged into our website; (c) personalization – we use cookies to store information about your preferences and to personalize the website for you; (d) security – we use cookies as an element of the security measures used to protect user accounts, including preventing fraudulent use of login credentials, and to protect our website and services generally; (e) advertising – we use cookies to help us to display advertisements that will be relevant to you; and (f) analysis – we use cookies to help us to analyze the use and performance of our website and services; we use google analytics to analyze the use of our website. google analytics gathers information about website use by means of cookies. the information gathered relating to our website is used to create reports about the use of our website. google’s privacy policy is available at: https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/ google analytics demographics and interest reporting is in use on this website. collected aggregate data (such as age, gender and interests) is used to guide content in order to better serve visitors. it may also be cited in media kits and referenced in discussion with potential partnerships. since we take your privacy seriously, our google analytics set-up anonymizes ip addresses. most browsers allow you to refuse to accept cookies and to delete cookies. the methods for doing so vary from browser to browser, and from version to version. you can however obtain up-to-date information about blocking and deleting cookies via these links: (a) https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en (chrome); (b) https://support.mozilla.org/en-us/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences (firefox); (c) http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/cookies/ (opera); (d) https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies (internet explorer); (e) https://support.apple.com/kb/ph21411 (safari); and (f) https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-10-microsoft-edge-and-privacy (edge). please note that blocking cookies may have a negative impact on the functions of many websites, including our site. some features of the site may cease to be available to you. interest-based advertising advertising privacy statement this site is affiliated with adthrive, llc (“adthrive”) for the purposes of placing advertising on the site. adthrive uses standard and widely-available tools for the placement and serving of ads, including those provided by google, inc. and its affiliates. we publish interest-based advertisements on the site; that is, ads that are tailored to reflect your interests. to help understand your interests, adthrive, google and our other advertising partners will track your behaviour on our website and on other websites across the internet using cookies. a cookie is a file containing an identifier (a string of letters and numbers) that is sent by a web server to a web browser and is stored by the browser. the identifier is then sent back to the server each time the browser requests a page from the server. cookies may be either “persistent” cookies or “session” cookies: a persistent cookie will be stored by a web browser and will remain valid until its set expiry date, unless deleted by the user before the expiry date; a session cookie, on the other hand, will expire at the end of the user session, when the web browser is closed. cookies do not typically contain any information that personally identifies a user, but personal information that we store about you may be linked to the information stored in and obtained from cookies. by using this site, you consent to the use of such cookies and the sharing of data captured by such cookies with adthrive, google, and our other third party partners. you can view, delete or add interest categories associated with your browser by visiting: https://adssettings.google.com. you can also opt out of the network cookie using those settings or using the network advertising initiative’s multi-cookie opt-out mechanism at: http://optout.networkadvertising.org. however, these opt-out mechanisms themselves use cookies, and if you clear the cookies from your browser your opt-out will not be maintained. for european economic area residents if you reside in a country in the european economic area (eea), then under the gdpr and applicable data protection laws you have the rights, among other things, to access your personal data, have us erase it, and/or restrict its further processing. if you wish to access or delete your personal data (if any) maintained by us or adthrive related to advertising on the site, you can contact us at hello@cookieandkate.com and contact adthrive at info@adthrive.com. if you wish to see a list of the advertising partners we work with or change which of those partners track your behavior using cookies, click the ad preferences link at the bottom of the site. (available in the eu.) for california residents california law gives residents the right to opt out of the “sale” of their personal information to third parties, including for advertising purposes. under california law, the sharing of your information with a service provider for advertising purposes could be considered a “sale.” to opt out of the sharing of your information for advertising information, click the opt out link provided in the footer of this page. you also have the right to request from us the categories of personal information that we have shared and the categories of third parties to whom the information was provided. to make such a request, please contact us at info@adthrive.com. to be clear we do not share your name, contact information, or any other sensitive information with third parties, and the categories of third parties that we share information with for advertising purposes are supply side platforms, programmatic advertising exchanges, and demand side platforms. email addresses we may collect your email address, but only if you voluntarily provide it to us. this may occur, for example, if you sign up to receive an email newsletter, leave a comment, or enter a promotion. we will use your email address for the purposes for which you provided it to us. you may opt out of such email communications at any time by clicking the “unsubscribe” button in the email. for instance, if you sign up for our newsletter, you will receive notification of new blog posts, roundups, special updates, and occasional news regarding the site or other brand-related products or services that we believe may be of interest to you. your email address may also be shared with the technology provider we use in connection with the purposes for which you provided it. for instance, we use mailchimp to deliver our email newsletters. information provided is transferred to mailchimp for processing in accordance to their privacy policy and terms. if you are a resident of a country in the european economic area (eea), please refer to the section below entitled “additional rights of eea residents.” comment, registration or account data as you use the site, we collect other data that you provide voluntarily. for example, if you leave a comment, the site will record your name as provided. you are welcome to use a nick-name instead, if you would rather not have your name published in conjunction with the comment. we may also collect information about you through other voluntary methods, including research surveys. we may use your personally-identifying information for a variety of our internal business purposes, such as creating a better user experience for the site, diagnosing and troubleshooting malfunctions on the site, better understanding how the site is used, and making personalized recommendations to you. if you are a resident of a country in the european economic area (eea), please refer to the section below entitled “additional rights of eea residents.” additional rights of eea (european economic area) residents if you are a resident of a country in the eea, you have the rights, among others, to: (i) access your personal data (ii) ensure the accuracy of your personal data (iii) the right to have us delete your personal data (iv) the right to restrict further processing of your personal data, and (v) the right to complain to a supervisory authority in your country of residence in the event that data is misused if you believe that our processing of your personal information infringes data protection laws, you have a legal right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority responsible for data protection. you may do so in the eu member state of your residence, your place of work or the place of the alleged infringement. you may exercise any of your rights in relation to your personal data by written notice to us addressed to hello@cookieandkate.com. children under 13 we care about protecting the privacy of children. we won’t knowingly allow anyone under 13 to provide us any personally identifying information. children should always get permission from their parents before sending any information about themselves (such as their names, email addresses, and phone numbers) over the internet, to us or to anyone else. if you’re under 13, please do not provide us with any personally identifying information (such as your name, your email address or your phone number). third party links the site contains links to third party websites and resources. these third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. we therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites. sale of business or assets in the event that the site or substantially all of its assets is sold or disposed of as a going concern, whether by merger, sale of assets or otherwise, or in the event of an insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership, the information we have collected about you may be one of the assets sold or merged in connection with that transaction. changes to the privacy policy we may change this privacy policy from time to time. the most recent version of the privacy policy will always be posted on the site, with the “effective date” posted at the top of the policy. we may revise and update this privacy policy if our practices change, as technology changes, or as we add new services or change existing ones. if we make any material changes to our privacy policy or how we handle your personal information, or we are going to use any personal information in a manner that is materially different from that stated in our privacy policy at the time we collected such information, we will give you a reasonable opportunity to consent to the change. if you do not consent, your personal information will be used as agreed to under the terms of the privacy policy in effect at the time we obtained that information. by using our site or services after the effective date, you are deemed to consent to our then-current privacy policy. we will use information previously obtained in accordance with the privacy policy in effect when the information was obtained from you. contacting us if you have any questions about this privacy policy, or the practices of this site, please contact us at hello@cookieandkate.com. hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}