toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog privacy policy last updated on: may 24th, 2018 this privacy policy governs the manner in which wording well collects, uses, maintains, and discloses information collected from people who use this site. particular areas of the world now require different privacy disclosures, so please read the entire policy to make sure you fully understand wording well’s practices. this policy was revised on may 24, 2018, to comply with the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which is a legal framework that sets guidelines for the collection and processing of personal information of individuals within the european union (eu). basically, wherever you live in this world, the following applies to you, if you use my site: email sign-ups i offer many freebies to my audience in exchange for your email address. when you give me your email address, you are agreeing to let me email you the freebie and also be put on my email subscriber list, which allows me to send you emails from time to time that: lets me notify you of new blog posts ask for your help with a decision (for example, decide on a name for a book or course) lets me ask you to take a survey etc. you are free to unsubscribe at any time from this list. there are detailed “unsubscribe” instructions at the bottom of each email. purchases via both direct links and affiliate links if you happen to buy something from me (such as my e-book, from nope to hope, or any of my services), through paypal, the information you provide is secure and confidential. encryption is used to make sure all data is safe and secure. see the little green lock in the url? that is there because this site has an ssl (secure sockets layer) on it. this is the standard security technology for establishing an encrypted link between a web server and a browser. this link ensures that all data passed between the web server and browsers remains private and integral. affiliate disclosures (and an introduction to cookies) some of the links used on wording well are affiliate links. if you click on one of my affiliate links and make a purchase, i will receive a commission. if you happen to click one of my affiliate links, your subsequent clicks will be tracked by others, via something called “cookies.” cookies are tiny files that are downloaded to your computer to track particular aspects of your activity online and are used for the purpose of ensuring that i get paid my affiliate commission. in the latter case, “others” is used to refer to the people and companies with whom i have signed up as an affiliate for. these include elna cain (and her write your way to 1k course), gina horkey’s many courses, the amazon associates program, various web-hosting companies, etc. this also applies to any ads you click on, as i will receive a small commission from google adsense. more about cookies cookies are also used by third parties to track certain things. for example, google analytics uses cookies to track where my visitors come from. this helps me know where my audience is located, the age ranges of my audience, etc. slideshare also uses cookies, to save your preferred language. if you don’t want any cookies put on your computer, you can change your cookie settings in your browser. wording well collects and uses such personal information for the following purposes: – to improve customer service the information you provide helps us respond to your customer service requests and support needs more efficiently. – to personalize user experience we may use information in the aggregate to understand how our users as a group use the services and resources provided on our site. – to improve our site we may use feedback you provide to improve our products and services. – to process payments we may use the information users provide about themselves when placing an order only to provide service to that order. we do not share this information with outside parties except to the extent necessary to provide the service. – to run a promotion, contest, survey or other site feature to send users information they agreed to receive about topics we think will be of interest to them. – to send periodic emails how i protect your information i adopt appropriate data collection, storage and processing practices and security measures to protect against unauthorized access, alteration, disclosure or destruction of your personal information, username, password, transaction information and data stored on my site. sharing your personal information we do not sell, trade, or rent your personal identification information to others. more about google adsense and cookies you may find advertising or other content on my site that link to the sites and services of my partners, suppliers, advertisers, sponsors, licensors and other third parties. i do not control the content or links that appear on these sites and are not responsible for the practices employed by websites linked to or from my site. in addition, these sites or services, including their content and links, are constantly changing. these sites and services may have their own privacy policies and customer service policies. browsing and interaction on any other website, including websites which have a link to my site is subject to that website’s own terms and policies. ads appearing on our site may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. these cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile non-personal identification information about you or others who use your computer. this information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. this privacy policy does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers. some of the ads may be served by google. google’s use of the dart cookie enables it to serve ads to users based on their visit to our site and other sites on the internet. dart uses “non-personally identifiable information” and does not track personal information about you, such as your name, email address, physical address, etc. compliance with children’s online privacy protection act protecting the privacy of the very young is especially important. for that reason, we never collect or maintain information at our site from those we actually know are under 13, and no part of our website is structured to attract anyone under 13. changes to this privacy policy wording well has the discretion to update this privacy policy at any time. when we do, we will revise the updated date at the bottom of this page. we encourage users to frequently check this page for any changes to stay informed about how we are helping to protect the personal information we collect. you acknowledge and agree that it is your responsibility to review this privacy policy periodically and become aware of modifications. your acceptance of these terms by using this site, you signify your acceptance of this policy. if you do not agree to this policy, please do not use our site. your continued use of the site following the posting of changes to this policy will be deemed your acceptance of those changes. contact us if you have any questions about this privacy policy, the practices of this site, or your dealings with this site, please contact us at: wording well https://wordingwell.com 47-740 south edward street thunder bay, ontario p7e 2h4 807-2512-836 [email protected] this page was last updated on may 24, 2018. wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy