skip to main content colorlib toggle navigation buy license hosting wordpress themes privacy policy who we are our website address is: https://colorlib.com and it is owned by company divilab sia what personal data we collect and why we collect it comments when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. media if you upload images to the website, you should avoid uploading images with embedded location data (exif gps) included. visitors to the website can download and extract any location data from images on the website. contact forms we use contact form 7 plugin for a contact for. information is received via email and stored there for 6 months without giving it for 3rd parties or using for marketing purposes. it is only there to provide answers to customer inquiries. cookies if you leave a comment on our site you may opt-in to saving your name, email address and website in cookies. these are for your convenience so that you do not have to fill in your details again when you leave another comment. these cookies will last for one year. if you have an account and you log in to this site, we will set a temporary cookie to determine if your browser accepts cookies. this cookie contains no personal data and is discarded when you close your browser. when you log in, we will also set up several cookies to save your login information and your screen display choices. login cookies last for two days, and screen options cookies last for a year. if you select “remember me”, your login will persist for two weeks. if you log out of your account, the login cookies will be removed. if you edit or publish an article, an additional cookie will be saved in your browser. this cookie includes no personal data and simply indicates the post id of the article you just edited. it expires after 1 day. embedded content from other websites articles on this site may include embedded content (e.g. videos, images, articles, etc.). embedded content from other websites behaves in the exact same way as if the visitor has visited the other website. these websites may collect data about you, use cookies, embed additional third-party tracking, and monitor your interaction with that embedded content, including tracing your interaction with the embedded content if you have an account and are logged in to that website. analytics we use google analytics to track visitor data. for more information on how google and google analytics use this data can be found here: https://policies.google.com/technologies/partner-sites who we share your data with the protection of your data is important to us. we may share your data with carefully selected and trusted third parties, including other companies in the macat group and providers of services to us. we may share your data with law enforcement agencies and/or third parties if we are required, or we genuinely believe that we are required, to do so by law. your data may be transferred to another company in the event we sell all or part of our business. we take all reasonable steps to ensure that third parties to which we share your data with agree to process that data only in ways that we permit them to and a way that complies with the law. how long we retain your data if you leave a comment, the comment and its metadata are retained indefinitely. this is so we can recognize and approve any follow-up comments automatically instead of holding them in a moderation queue. for users that register on our website (if any), we also store the personal information they provide in their user profile. all users can see, edit, or delete their personal information at any time (except they cannot change their username). website administrators can also see and edit that information. what rights you have over your data if you have an account on this site, or have left comments or forum messages, you can request to receive an exported file of the personal data we hold about you, including any data you have provided to us. you can also request that we erase any personal data we hold about you. this does not include any data we are obliged to keep for administrative, legal, or security purposes. where we send your data visitor comments and forum threads may be checked through an automated spam detection service. other services that we use on our website that might collect user data: google analytics mailchimp google adsense onesignal please check their websites on how they might use your data. your contact information colorlib is a subsidiary of divilab sia support [at] divilab.com additional information how we protect your data we use an ssl certificate in order to encrypt any data sent between you and our server. all administrators of this website are required to use strong passwords in order to minimise any risk of unauthorised entry. what data breach procedures we have in place in the case of a data breach we will inform the information latvian “datu valsts inspekcija” (dvi) within 72 hours of the suspected breach. when we know information about a breach, we will provide this to individuals affected, together with advice to help them protect themselves from its effects. what third parties we receive data from we don't receive any data from third parties. what automated decision making and/or profiling we do with user data we don't do any automated decision based on user data. industry regulatory disclosure requirements you have the right to lodge a complaint with thelatvian “datu valsts inspekcija” (dvi) if you believe your personal information has been processed in a way that does not comply with the gdpr. you can do so by calling the dvi helpline on 67 22 31 31 or via their website http://www.dvi.gov.lv/lv/. copyright © 2013-2019 colorlib - all rights reserved. theme by colorlib powered by wordpress