wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » privacy policy privacy policy your privacy is very important to us. at wpbeginner we have a few fundamental principles that we follow: we don’t ask you for personal information unless we truly need it. (we can’t stand services that ask you for things like your gender or income level for no apparent reason.) we don’t share your personal information with anyone except to comply with the law, develop our products, or protect our rights. we don’t store personal information on our servers unless required for the on-going operation of our site. awesome motive inc. (“awesome motive”) operates several websites including awesomemotive.com, wpbeginner.com, list25.com, balkhis.com, and uzzz.net. it is awesome motive’s policy to respect your privacy regarding any information we may collect while operating our websites. website visitors like most website operators, awesome motive collects non-personally-identifying information of the sort that web browsers and servers typically make available, such as the browser type, language preference, referring site, and the date and time of each visitor request. awesome motive’s purpose in collecting non-personally identifying information is to better understand how awesome motive’s visitors use its website. from time to time, awesome motive may release non-personally-identifying information in the aggregate, e.g., by publishing a report on trends in the usage of its website. awesome motive also collects potentially personally-identifying information like internet protocol (ip) addresses for logged in users and for users leaving comments on our blogs. awesome motive only discloses logged in user and commenter ip addresses under the same circumstances that it uses and discloses personally-identifying information as described below, except that blog commenter ip addresses are visible and disclosed to the administrators of the blog where the comment was left. gathering of personally-identifying information certain visitors to awesome motive’s websites choose to interact with awesome motive in ways that require awesome motive to gather personally-identifying information. the amount and type of information that awesome motive gathers depends on the nature of the interaction. for example, we ask visitors who comment on our blog to provide a username and email address. those who wish to receive wpbeginner updates via email, we collect their emails. in each case, awesome motive collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the purpose of the visitor’s interaction with awesome motive. awesome motive does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. and visitors can always refuse to supply personally-identifying information, with the caveat that it may prevent them from engaging in certain website-related activities. aggregated statistics awesome motive may collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. for instance, awesome motive may monitor the most popular pages on the list25.com site or use spam screened by the akismet service to help identify spam. awesome motive may display this information publicly or provide it to others. however, awesome motive does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. protection of certain personally-identifying information awesome motive discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on awesome motive’s behalf or to provide services available at awesome motive’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. some of those employees, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using awesome motive’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. awesome motive will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. other than to its employees, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, awesome motive discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only in response to a subpoena, court order or other governmental request, or when awesome motive believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of awesome motive, third parties or the public at large. if you are a registered user of an awesome motive website and have supplied your email address, awesome motive may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with awesome motive and our products. we primarily use our various product blogs to communicate this type of information, so we expect to keep this type of email to a minimum. if you send us a request (for example via a support email or via one of our feedback mechanisms), we reserve the right to publish it in order to help us clarify or respond to your request or to help us support other users. awesome motive takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information. cookies a cookie is a string of information that a website stores on a visitor’s computer, and that the visitor’s browser provides to the website each time the visitor returns. awesome motive uses cookies to help awesome motive identify and track visitors, their usage of awesome motive website, and their website access preferences. awesome motive visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using awesome motive’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of awesome motive’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies. business transfers if awesome motive, or substantially all of its assets were acquired, or in the unlikely event that awesome motive goes out of business or enters bankruptcy, user information would be one of the assets that is transferred or acquired by a third party. you acknowledge that such transfers may occur, and that any acquirer of awesome motive may continue to use your personal information as set forth in this policy. ads ads appearing on any of our websites may be delivered to users by advertising partners, who may set cookies. these cookies allow the ad server to recognize your computer each time they send you an online advertisement to compile information about you or others who use your computer. this information allows ad networks to, among other things, deliver targeted advertisements that they believe will be of most interest to you. this privacy policy covers the use of cookies by awesome motive and does not cover the use of cookies by any advertisers. comments comments and other content submitted to akismet anti-spam service are not saved on our servers unless they were marked as false positives, in which case we store them long enough to use them to improve the service to avoid future false positives. privacy policy changes although most changes are likely to be minor, awesome motive may change its privacy policy from time to time, and in awesome motive’s sole discretion. awesome motive encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its privacy policy. your continued use of this site after any change in this privacy policy will constitute your acceptance of such change. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.