home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home privacy & cookies policy privacy & cookies policy cookies to make this site work properly, we sometimes place small data files called cookies on your device. most big websites do this too. what are cookies? a cookie is a small text file that a website saves on your computer or mobile device when you visit the site. it enables the website to remember your actions and preferences (such as login, language, font size and other display preferences) over a period of time, so you don’t have to keep re-entering them whenever you come back to the site or browse from one page to another. how do we use cookies? cookies are used on we and the color to identify users as well as remember users’ custom preferences and help users complete tasks without having to re‑enter information when browsing from one page to another or when visiting the site later. cookies are also used for online behavioural target advertising and to show adverts relevant to something that the user searched for in the past. how are they used? the web server supplying the webpage can store a cookie on the user’s computer or mobile device. an external web server that manages files included or referenced in the webpage is also able to store cookies. all these cookies are called http header cookies. another way of storing cookies is through javascript code contained or referenced in that page. each time the user requests a new page, the web server can receive the values of the cookies it previously set and return the page with content relating to these values. similarly, javascript code is able to read a cookie belonging to its domain and perform an action accordingly. what are the different types of cookies? a cookie can be classified by its lifespan and the domain to which it belongs. by lifespan, a cookie is either a: session cookie which is erased when the user closes the browser or persistent cookie which remains on the user’s computer/device for a pre-defined period of time. as for the domain to which it belongs, there are either: first-party cookies which are set by the web server of the visited page and share the same domain third-party cookies stored by a different domain to the visited page’s domain. this can happen when the webpage references a file, such as javascript, located outside its domain. how to control cookies you can delete all cookies that are already on your computer and you can set most browsers to prevent them from being placed. if you do this, however, you may have to manually adjust some preferences every time you visit a site and some services and functionalities may not work. email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled