privacy policy of lifehack this website collects some personal data from its users. this document can be printed for reference by using the print command in the settings of any browser. owner and data controller 9/f, tungtex building, 203 wai yip street, kwun tong, hong kong sar owner contact email: privacy@lifehack.org types of data collected among the types of personal data that this website collects, by itself or through third parties, there are: email address; cookies; usage data; unique device identifiers for advertising (google advertiser id or idfa, for example); various types of data; first name; last name; profession; picture. complete details on each type of personal data collected are provided in the dedicated sections of this privacy policy or by specific explanation texts displayed prior to the data collection. personal data may be freely provided by the user, or, in case of usage data, collected automatically when using this website. unless specified otherwise, all data requested by this website is mandatory and failure to provide this data may make it impossible for this website to provide its services. in cases where this website specifically states that some data is not mandatory, users are free not to communicate this data without consequences to the availability or the functioning of the service. users who are uncertain about which personal data is mandatory are welcome to contact the owner. any use of cookies – or of other tracking tools – by this website or by the owners of third-party services used by this website serves the purpose of providing the service required by the user, in addition to any other purposes described in the present document and in the cookie policy, if available. users are responsible for any third-party personal data obtained, published or shared through this website and confirm that they have the third party's consent to provide the data to the owner. mode and place of processing the data methods of processing the owner takes appropriate security measures to prevent unauthorized access, disclosure, modification, or unauthorized destruction of the data. the data processing is carried out using computers and/or it enabled tools, following organizational procedures and modes strictly related to the purposes indicated. in addition to the owner, in some cases, the data may be accessible to certain types of persons in charge, involved with the operation of this website (administration, sales, marketing, legal, system administration) or external parties (such as third-party technical service providers, mail carriers, hosting providers, it companies, communications agencies) appointed, if necessary, as data processors by the owner. the updated list of these parties may be requested from the owner at any time. legal basis of processing the owner may process personal data relating to users if one of the following applies: users have given their consent for one or more specific purposes. note: under some legislations the owner may be allowed to process personal data until the user objects to such processing (“opt-out”), without having to rely on consent or any other of the following legal bases. this, however, does not apply, whenever the processing of personal data is subject to european data protection law; provision of data is necessary for the performance of an agreement with the user and/or for any pre-contractual obligations thereof; processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to which the owner is subject; processing is related to a task that is carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the owner; processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the owner or by a third party. in any case, the owner will gladly help to clarify the specific legal basis that applies to the processing, and in particular whether the provision of personal data is a statutory or contractual requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract. place the data is processed at the owner's operating offices and in any other places where the parties involved in the processing are located. depending on the user's location, data transfers may involve transferring the user's data to a country other than their own. to find out more about the place of processing of such transferred data, users can check the section containing details about the processing of personal data. users are also entitled to learn about the legal basis of data transfers to a country outside the european union or to any international organization governed by public international law or set up by two or more countries, such as the un, and about the security measures taken by the owner to safeguard their data. if any such transfer takes place, users can find out more by checking the relevant sections of this document or inquire with the owner using the information provided in the contact section. retention time personal data shall be processed and stored for as long as required by the purpose they have been collected for. therefore: personal data collected for purposes related to the performance of a contract between the owner and the user shall be retained until such contract has been fully performed. personal data collected for the purposes of the owner’s legitimate interests shall be retained as long as needed to fulfill such purposes. users may find specific information regarding the legitimate interests pursued by the owner within the relevant sections of this document or by contacting the owner. the owner may be allowed to retain personal data for a longer period whenever the user has given consent to such processing, as long as such consent is not withdrawn. furthermore, the owner may be obliged to retain personal data for a longer period whenever required to do so for the performance of a legal obligation or upon order of an authority. once the retention period expires, personal data shall be deleted. therefore, the right to access, the right to erasure, the right to rectification and the right to data portability cannot be enforced after expiration of the retention period. the purposes of processing the data concerning the user is collected to allow the owner to provide its service, comply with its legal obligations, respond to enforcement requests, protect its rights and interests (or those of its users or third parties), detect any malicious or fraudulent activity, as well as the following: user database management, analytics, advertising, contacting the user, content performance and features testing (a/b testing), data transfer outside the eu, displaying content from external platforms, infrastructure monitoring, managing contacts and sending messages, managing landing and invitation pages, managing support and contact requests, social features and tag management. for specific information about the personal data used for each purpose, the user may refer to the section “detailed information on the processing of personal data”. detailed information on the processing of personal data personal data is collected for the following purposes and using the following services: advertising this type of service allows user data to be utilized for advertising communication purposes displayed in the form of banners and other advertisements on this website, possibly based on user interests. this does not mean that all personal data are used for this purpose. information and conditions of use are shown below. some of the services listed below may use cookies to identify users or they may use the behavioral retargeting technique, i.e. displaying ads tailored to the user’s interests and behavior, including those detected outside this website. for more information, please check the privacy policies of the relevant services. in addition to any opt out offered by any of the services below, the user may opt out of a third-party service's use of cookies by visiting the network advertising initiative opt-out page. google adsense (google inc.) google adsense is an advertising service provided by google inc. this service uses the “doubleclick” cookie, which tracks use of this website and user behavior concerning ads, products and services offered. users may decide to disable all the doubleclick cookies by clicking on: google.com/settings/ads/onweb/optout. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. rubicon project (the rubicon project, inc.) rubicon project is an advertising service provided by the rubicon project, inc. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. facebook audience network (facebook, inc.) facebook audience network is an advertising service provided by facebook, inc. in order to understand facebook's use of data, consult facebook's data policy. this website may use identifiers for mobile devices (including android advertising id or advertising identifier for ios, respectively) and technologies similar to cookies to run the facebook audience network service. one of the ways audience network shows ads is by using the user's ad preferences. the user can control this in the facebook ad settings. users may opt-out of certain audience network targeting through applicable device settings, such as the device advertising settings for mobile phones or by following the instructions in other audience network related sections of this privacy policy, if available. personal data processed: cookies; unique device identifiers for advertising (google advertiser id or idfa, for example); usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. appnexus (appnexus inc.) appnexus is an advertising service provided by appnexus inc. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. rhythmone (rhythmone, llc) rhythmone is an advertising service provided by rhythmone, llc. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. analytics the services contained in this section enable the owner to monitor and analyze web traffic and can be used to keep track of user behavior. google analytics (google inc.) google analytics is a web analysis service provided by google inc. (“google”). google utilizes the data collected to track and examine the use of this website, to prepare reports on its activities and share them with other google services. google may use the data collected to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy – opt out. privacy shield participant. contacting the user mailing list or newsletter (this website) by registering on the mailing list or for the newsletter, the user’s email address will be added to the contact list of those who may receive email messages containing information of commercial or promotional nature concerning this website. your email address might also be added to this list as a result of signing up to this website or after making a purchase. personal data processed: email address. content performance and features testing (a/b testing) the services contained in this section allow the owner to track and analyze the user response concerning web traffic or behavior regarding changes to the structure, text or any other component of this website. google optimize (google llc) google optimize is an a/b testing service provided by google llc ("google"). google may use personal data to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. data transfer outside the eu the owner is allowed to transfer personal data collected within the eu to third countries (i.e. any country not part of the eu) only pursuant to a specific legal basis. any such data transfer is based on one of the legal bases described below. users can inquire with the owner to learn which legal basis applies to which specific service. data transfer abroad based on consent (this website) if this is the legal basis, personal data of users shall be transferred from the eu to third countries only if the user has explicitly consented to such transfer, after having been informed of the possible risks due to the absence of an adequacy decision and appropriate safeguards. in such cases, the owner shall inform users appropriately and collect their explicit consent via this website. personal data processed: various types of data. displaying content from external platforms this type of service allows you to view content hosted on external platforms directly from the pages of this website and interact with them. this type of service might still collect web traffic data for the pages where the service is installed, even when users do not use it. google fonts (google inc.) google fonts is a typeface visualization service provided by google inc. that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. personal data processed: usage data; various types of data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. google site search (google inc.) google site search is a search engine embedding service provided by google inc. that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. gravatar (automattic inc.) gravatar is an image visualization service provided by automattic inc. that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. please note that if gravatar images are used for comment forms, the commenter's email address or parts of it may be sent to gravatar - even if the commenter has not signed up for that service. personal data processed: email address; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. spotify widget (spotify ab) spotify is an audio content delivery service provided by spotify ab that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: sweden – privacy policy. vimeo video (vimeo, llc) vimeo is a video content visualization service provided by vimeo, llc that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. youtube video widget (google inc.) youtube is a video content visualization service provided by google inc. that allows this website to incorporate content of this kind on its pages. personal data processed: cookies; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. infrastructure monitoring this type of service allows this website to monitor the use and behavior of its components so its performance, operation, maintenance and troubleshooting can be improved. which personal data are processed depends on the characteristics and mode of implementation of these services, whose function is to filter the activities of this website. bugsnag (bugsnag inc.) bugsnag is a monitoring service provided by bugsnag inc. personal data processed: various types of data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. managing contacts and sending messages this type of service makes it possible to manage a database of email contacts, phone contacts or any other contact information to communicate with the user. these services may also collect data concerning the date and time when the message was viewed by the user, as well as when the user interacted with it, such as by clicking on links included in the message. convertkit (convertkit llc) convertkit is an email address management and message sending service provided by convertkit llc. personal data processed: cookies; email address; first name; usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. managing landing and invitation pages this type of service helps with building and managing landing and invitation pages, i.e., pages for presenting a product or service, where you may add your contact information such as an email address. managing these pages means that these services will handle the personal data collected through the pages, including usage data. leadpages (avenue 81, inc.) leadpages is a landing page management service provided by avenue 81, inc., that allows this website to collect the email addresses of users interested in its service. leadpages allows the owner to track and analyze the user response concerning web traffic or behavior regarding changes to the structure, text or any other component of the created landing pages. personal data processed: email address; usage data; various types of data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. managing support and contact requests this type of service allows this website to manage support and contact requests received via email or by other means, such as the contact form. the personal data processed depend on the information provided by the user in the messages and the means used for communication (e.g. email address). help scout (brightwurks inc.) help scout is a support and contact request management service provided by brightwurks inc. personal data processed: various types of data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. social features public profile (this website) users may have public profiles that other users can display. in addition to the personal data provided, this profile may contain users' interactions with this website. personal data processed: email address; first name; last name; picture; profession. tag management this type of service helps the owner to manage the tags or scripts needed on this website in a centralized fashion. this results in the users' data flowing through these services, potentially resulting in the retention of this data. google tag manager (google llc) google tag manager is a tag management service provided by google llc. personal data processed: usage data. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. privacy shield participant. user database management this type of service allows the owner to build user profiles by starting from an email address, a personal name, or other information that the user provides to this website, as well as to track user activities through analytics features. this personal data may also be matched with publicly available information about the user (such as social networks' profiles) and used to build private profiles that the owner can display and use for improving this website. some of these services may also enable the sending of timed messages to the user, such as emails based on specific actions performed on this website. intercom (intercom inc.) intercom is a user database management service provided by intercom inc. intercom can also be used as a medium for communications, either through email, or through messages within this website. personal data processed: cookies; email address; usage data; various types of data as specified in the privacy policy of the service. place of processing: united states – privacy policy. further information about personal data selling goods and services online the personal data collected are used to provide the user with services or to sell goods, including payment and possible delivery. the personal data collected to complete the payment may include the credit card, the bank account used for the transfer, or any other means of payment envisaged. the kind of data collected by this website depends on the payment system used. analysis and predictions based on the user’s data (“profiling”) the owner may use the personal and usage data collected through this website to create or update user profiles. this type of data processing allows the owner to evaluate user choices, preferences and behaviour for the purposes outlined in the respective section of this document. user profiles can also be created through the use of automated tools like algorithms, which can also be provided by third parties. to find out more about the profiling activities performed, users can check the relevant sections of this document. the user always has a right to object to this kind of profiling activity. to find out more about the user's rights and how to exercise them, the user is invited to consult the section of this document outlining the rights of the user. the rights of users users may exercise certain rights regarding their data processed by the owner. in particular, users have the right to do the following: withdraw their consent at any time. users have the right to withdraw consent where they have previously given their consent to the processing of their personal data. object to processing of their data. users have the right to object to the processing of their data if the processing is carried out on a legal basis other than consent. further details are provided in the dedicated section below. access their data. users have the right to learn if data is being processed by the owner, obtain disclosure regarding certain aspects of the processing and obtain a copy of the data undergoing processing. verify and seek rectification. users have the right to verify the accuracy of their data and ask for it to be updated or corrected. restrict the processing of their data. users have the right, under certain circumstances, to restrict the processing of their data. in this case, the owner will not process their data for any purpose other than storing it. have their personal data deleted or otherwise removed. users have the right, under certain circumstances, to obtain the erasure of their data from the owner. receive their data and have it transferred to another controller. users have the right to receive their data in a structured, commonly used and machine readable format and, if technically feasible, to have it transmitted to another controller without any hindrance. this provision is applicable provided that the data is processed by automated means and that the processing is based on the user's consent, on a contract which the user is part of or on pre-contractual obligations thereof. lodge a complaint. users have the right to bring a claim before their competent data protection authority. details about the right to object to processing where personal data is processed for a public interest, in the exercise of an official authority vested in the owner or for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the owner, users may object to such processing by providing a ground related to their particular situation to justify the objection. users must know that, however, should their personal data be processed for direct marketing purposes, they can object to that processing at any time without providing any justification. to learn, whether the owner is processing personal data for direct marketing purposes, users may refer to the relevant sections of this document. how to exercise these rights any requests to exercise user rights can be directed to the owner through the contact details provided in this document. these requests can be exercised free of charge and will be addressed by the owner as early as possible and always within one month. additional information about data collection and processing legal action the user's personal data may be used for legal purposes by the owner in court or in the stages leading to possible legal action arising from improper use of this website or the related services. the user declares to be aware that the owner may be required to reveal personal data upon request of public authorities. additional information about user's personal data in addition to the information contained in this privacy policy, this website may provide the user with additional and contextual information concerning particular services or the collection and processing of personal data upon request. system logs and maintenance for operation and maintenance purposes, this website and any third-party services may collect files that record interaction with this website (system logs) use other personal data (such as the ip address) for this purpose. information not contained in this policy more details concerning the collection or processing of personal data may be requested from the owner at any time. please see the contact information at the beginning of this document. how “do not track” requests are handled this website does not support “do not track” requests. to determine whether any of the third-party services it uses honor the “do not track” requests, please read their privacy policies. changes to this privacy policy the owner reserves the right to make changes to this privacy policy at any time by notifying its users on this page and possibly within this website and/or - as far as technically and legally feasible - sending a notice to users via any contact information available to the owner. it is strongly recommended to check this page often, referring to the date of the last modification listed at the bottom. should the changes affect processing activities performed on the basis of the user’s consent, the owner shall collect new consent from the user, where required. definitions and legal references personal data (or data) any information that directly, indirectly, or in connection with other information — including a personal identification number — allows for the identification or identifiability of a natural person. usage data information collected automatically through this website (or third-party services employed in this website), which can include: the ip addresses or domain names of the computers utilized by the users who use this website, the uri addresses (uniform resource identifier), the time of the request, the method utilized to submit the request to the server, the size of the file received in response, the numerical code indicating the status of the server's answer (successful outcome, error, etc.), the country of origin, the features of the browser and the operating system utilized by the user, the various time details per visit (e.g., the time spent on each page within the application) and the details about the path followed within the application with special reference to the sequence of pages visited, and other parameters about the device operating system and/or the user's it environment. user the individual using this website who, unless otherwise specified, coincides with the data subject. data subject the natural person to whom the personal data refers. data processor (or data supervisor) the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller, as described in this privacy policy. data controller (or owner) the natural or legal person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data, including the security measures concerning the operation and use of this website. the data controller, unless otherwise specified, is the owner of this website. this website (or this application) the means by which the personal data of the user is collected and processed. service the service provided by this website as described in the relative terms (if available) and on this site/application. european union (or eu) unless otherwise specified, all references made within this document to the european union include all current member states to the european union and the european economic area. cookies small sets of data stored in the user's device. legal information this privacy statement has been prepared based on provisions of multiple legislations, including art. 13/14 of regulation (eu) 2016/679 (general data protection regulation). this privacy policy relates solely to this website, if not stated otherwise within this document. latest update: may 24, 2018 iubenda hosts this content and only collects the personal data strictly necessary for it to be provided. show the simplified privacy policy privacy policy generated with generate yours