start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search privacy policy 0shares this privacy policy has been compiled to better serve those who are concerned with how their ‘personally identifiable information’ (pii) is being used online. pii, as described in us privacy law and information security, is information that can be used on its own or with other information to identify, contact, or locate a single person, or to identify an individual in context. please read our privacy policy carefully to get a clear understanding of how we collect, use, protect or otherwise handle your personally identifiable information in accordance with our website. what personal information do we collect from the people that visit our website? when signing up for our newsletter you may be asked to enter your name, email address or other details to help you with your experience. if you click on an affiliate link, a cookie may be placed on your computer to enable tracking any purchase you make. this will not affect the prices you pay on any of our partner websites but will provide us with a small commission if you decided to purchase something. how do we use your information? we may use the information we collect from you when you sign up for our newsletter, respond to a survey or marketing communication, surf the website, or use certain other site features in the following ways: to send periodic emails regarding your order or other products and services track your use of the website to better understand functionality issues track your clicking of affiliate links in order to earn a small percentage of sales that go towards maintaining the website. how do we protect your information? we only provide articles and information. we never ask for credit card numbers on this website. we use regular malware scanning and firewall blocking of our website. your personal information is contained behind secured networks and is only accessible by a limited number of persons who have special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential. all pages are encrypted with ssl to ensure your contact information is secure when entered on our website. do we use ‘cookies’? yes, we use cookies to provide certain functionality on the website. you can read more about cookies and how we use them in our cookie policy third-party disclosure we do not sell or trade your personally identifiable information. we utilize a third party company to process our email to you and as a result, this company has access to the data you provide on sign-up. we may also keep a copy of your sign-up data on our servers as a back-up. you can request a copy of the data we and our third-party provider(s) hold on you by submitting a general inquiry through our contact form. the data we hold will only be used for the purpose that you consented to during the sign-up process. third-party links occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third-party products or services on our website. these third-party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. we, therefore, have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites. google google’s advertising requirements can be summed up by google’s advertising principles. they are put in place to provide a positive experience for users. we use google adsense advertising on our website. google, as a third-party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on our site. google’s use of the dart cookie enables it to serve ads to our users based on previous visits to our site and other sites on the internet. users may opt-out of the use of the dart cookie by visiting the google ad and content network privacy policy. we have implemented the following: remarketing with google adsense google display network impression reporting demographics and interests reporting we, along with third-party vendors such as google use first-party cookies (such as the google analytics cookies) and third-party cookies (such as the doubleclick cookie) or other third-party identifiers together to compile data regarding user interactions with ad impressions and other ad service functions as they relate to our website. opting out: users can set preferences for how google advertises to you using the google ad settings page. alternatively, you can opt out by visiting the network advertising initiative opt-out page or by using the google analytics opt-out browser add on. compliance with global legislation we aim to be compliant with global privacy laws. as these are changing constantly, this privacy policy will be updated to reflect the changes in the law. we agree to the following: users can visit our site anonymously. you will be notified of any privacy policy changes: on our privacy policy page by email if you’re signed up to our newsletter you can change your personal information at any time by clicking on the “update subscription preferences” at the bottom of the emails we send you contacting us via the website contact form we do not specifically market to children under the age of 13 years old how does our site handle do not track signals? we aim to honor do not track signals and do not track, plant cookies, or use advertising when a do not track (dnt) browser mechanism is in place. we implement technologies as they become mainstream and attempt to keep up with changing tracking codes and technologies in a timely manner however there may be a slight delay in implementing any new functionality due to platform or techology reasons. does our site allow third-party behavioral tracking? it’s also important to note that we allow third-party behavioral tracking: on occasion, we may utilize third party companies to understand how our users are navigating our website and using our features. as a result, if such service when used, is active your interaction with this site will be transferred and logged on their servers. this information is used purely by us for quality control purposes. in order to be in line with fair information practices we will take the following responsive action, should a data breach occur: we will notify you via email within 7 business days of being made aware of such a breach if the breach occurs on out network we will inform you of how the breach occured we do not personally control or own any servers your information is stored on and whilst we only select quality partners to work with, if an issue occurs with a third-party supplier we will notify you as soon as we can are made aware and provide details of the problem and who to contact can spam act and gdpr the can-spam act and gdpr are laws that sets the rules for commercial email, establishes requirements for commercial messages, gives recipients the right to have emails stopped from being sent to them, and spells out tough penalties for violations.we collect your email address in order to: respond to enquiries, and/or other requests or questions send you weekly newsletters with exclusive content, notify you of subscriber resource centre password changes or other site news send you notifications that our privacy policy has been updated ask you whether you wish to remain on our email list if you have not interacted with an email from us for a period of time (usually 10 weeks) to be in accordance with the above acts, we agree to the following: not use false or misleading subjects or email addresses. identify the message as an advertisement in some reasonable way. include the physical address of our business or site headquarters. monitor third-party email marketing services for compliance, if one is used. honor opt-out/unsubscribe requests quickly. allow users to unsubscribe by using the link at the bottom of each email. if at any time you would like to unsubscribe from receiving future emails: simply use the unsubscribe link on the bottom of each email we send you send us an email via the contact form content & disclosure this blog is edited by maxim dsouza however articles are also provided by third party individuals and companies. for questions about this blog, please contact us. this blog accepts forms of cash advertising, sponsorship, paid insertions or other forms of compensation. advertising networks include google adsense, amazon adverts and amazon affiliate links. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. the compensation received may influence the advertising content, topics or posts made in this blog. that content, advertising space or post may not always be identified as paid or sponsored content. in the majority of cases affiliate links will be marked and the post will contain it’s own separate notice. the owner of this blog may be compensated to provide opinion on products, services, websites and various other topics. even though the owner of this blog may receive compensation for our posts or advertisements, they always give their honest opinions, findings, beliefs, or experiences on those topics or products. the views and opinions expressed on this blog are purely the bloggers’ own. any product claim, statistic, quote or other representation about a product or service should be verified with the manufacturer, provider or party in question. this blog does not contain any content which might present a conflict of interest. contacting us if there are any questions regarding this privacy policy, you may contact us using the information below. maxim dsouza #197, varsha nilaya, 1st cross aecs layout a block, kundalahalli, bangalore 560037 india it is preferred that you contact me via the website to ensure that your query is dealt with in a timely manner my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 0shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?