empowering, inspiring, award-winning & my grandma says you’ll love it…. signup! close home ec services ask the green mama ratings/reviews press contributing authors affiliates be local. shop local. live local events green mama products tags about blog the books green mama green mama-to-be shop explore join the tribe >> privacy policy what information do we collect? this blog does not share personal information with third parties nor do we store any information about your visit to this blog other than to analyze and optimize your content and reading experience and to improve our website. if you provide information to receive periodic emails, that information is not shared with anyone either, and is just for sending periodic green mama newsletters or responding to your questions or inquiries. how do we protect your information? we implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you enter, submit, or access your personal information. do we use cookies? yes (cookies are small files that a site or its service provider transfers to your computers hard drive through your web browser (if you allow) that enables the sites or service providers systems to recognize your browser and capture and remember certain information we use cookies to understand and save your preferences for future visits, keep track of advertisements and compile aggregate data about site traffic and site interaction so that we can offer better site experiences and tools in the future. third party links occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third party products or services on our website. these third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. we therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites. online privacy policy only this online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline. by using our site, you consent to our websites privacy policy. changes to our privacy policy if we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page, and/or update the privacy policy modification date below. have any questions about this or anything else green mama related? just ask. this policy was last modified on july 14, 2014 info@thegreenmama.com latest from the blog the alchemy of hope december 6, 2019 the ultimate book lovers book guide december 4, 2019 not home for the holidays – military (& other distant-loving) families survival guide december 1, 2019 sign up to receive the green mama newsletter! email* ⇡ © the green mama 2006-2020 privacy policy terms & conditions the review process contributor login the green mama participates in affiliate programs, e.g. amazon services llc associates, designed to provide a means to earn $ by advertising/linking to sites such as amazon.com, without costing the buyer. i only link to products that meet green & ethical guidelines. learn more. join the tribe >>