hair romance hair blog - hair tutorials - curly hairstyles and more home tutorials curly hair curly hair guide braids guide shop about terms of use privacy policy disclosure policy contact privacy policy website privacy policy romance media (we, us, our, mr & mrs romance or hair romance) recognises and values the protection of your personal information. we recognise that you have an interest in our collection and use of your personal information via our website, which is located at www.mrandmrsromance.com and www.hairromance.com (the websites). we have implemented this website privacy policy in order to be open and transparent about how we collect, hold, and use your personal information, and under what circumstances we may disclose or transfer your personal information. the website privacy policy also outlines your rights to gain access to, and seek corrections of, your personal information we hold. finally, the privacy policy provides information about how you can approach us about your privacy-related concerns and complaints, and how we will deal with such communications. this policy applies only to information that romance media collects via these websites. please note that this website privacy policy forms part of the terms of use document, which is displayed at the footer of each page of the website. information we collect and hold wherever possible, you can elect to remain anonymous or use a pseudonym in interacting with us e.g. when making an enquiry. from time to time, we may ask you to supply personal information such as your name, address, date of birth, telephone number or e-mail address. for example, we ask for your contact information when you sign up for a free or paid eproduct or newsletter, participate in community forums or comment on the blog, join us on social media, take part in events, contact us with questions or request support. if you don’t want to provide us with personal data, you don’t have to, but it might mean you can’t use some parts of our websites or services. under no circumstances will we request any information from you that may disclose your: political, religious or philosophical opinions, beliefs, associations or affiliations; health and sexuality; racial or ethnic origin; membership of a trade union, or a professional or trade association; or criminal records. we may also conduct surveys or market research and may seek other information from you on a periodic basis. these surveys will provide us with information that allows improvement in the types and quality of services offered to you, and the manner in which those services are offered to you. how we collect, store, use and secure personal data is in line with europe’s new general data protection regulation (gdpr) 2018. personal information via the website we collect some information about you automatically when you visit our websites or use our services, like your ip address and device type. we also collect information when you navigate through our websites and services, including what pages you looked at and what links you clicked on. this information is useful for us as it helps us get a better understanding of how you’re using our websites and services so that we can continue to provide the best experience possible (e.g., by personalising the content you see). some of this information is collected automatically by cookies or similar tracking technologies. ‘cookies’ are pieces of information that websites send to the browser and are stored in the computer hard-drive. cookies make using the website easier by storing information about your preferences on the website. this allows the website to be tailored to you for any of your return visits. cookies will not identify you personally. these websites include advertisement, and those advertisers may collect, use, store and disclose data and information about visitors, including information related to your demographic information. our trusted advertising partners include adthrive.com and google.com. each of these advertising partners has their own privacy policy for their site, which you can review at each of their sites. we use this information to supplement the personal data we already hold about you, in order to better inform, personalise and improve our services, and to validate the personal data you provide. if you would prefer not to receive cookies, you can alter your security settings on your web browser to disable cookies or to warn you when cookies are being used. however, by disabling the cookie function in your web browser, you may impede your ability to use parts of the website. when you leave a comment on our websites, you are giving implied consent for this comment and your information to appear on our websites. in leaving a comment, your name and email address will not be shared with any third party. we may use your email address solely to respond to your comment. however, we are not liable or responsible for the actions of other individuals and the unauthorized use by such information that you voluntarily share. we have public social media accounts and social sharing options on our websites. if you choose to interact on social media with us or our accounts, you are advised that any interactions on those accounts are publicly available. if you choose to share a testimonial with us on our websites, we will first obtain your written permission via email before including your name and testimonial on our website. your option not to provide your personal information providing us with your personal information is absolutely optional, but may be necessary for us to provide you with our services. whenever it is optional for you to provide us with non-essential personal information, we will make this clear to you. when you provide us with your personal information, you are consenting to our storage, use and disclosure of that information as outlined in this website privacy policy. we may from time to time run competitions or offer additional benefits to you and we may ask you to provide us with your personal details for these purposes. providing us with this information is absolutely optional to you. however, if you do not provide your personal information to us, we may not be able to contact you or give you access to the additional benefits. you may opt out of these additional communications at any time. please contact our privacy officer at thehair@hairromance.com use and disclosure of your personal information when we hold your personal information, it will be used for the following primary purposes: to ensure the proper functioning of the website; to ensure the proper functioning of the romance media business; to assist romance media with our auditing, marketing, planning, billing, product development and research requirements. first and foremost, we use your personal data to operate our websites and provide you with any services you’ve requested, and to manage our relationship with you. we also use your personal data for other purposes, which may include the following: to communicate with you. this may include: providing you with information you’ve requested from us (like guidance or education materials) or information we are required to send to you for operational communications, like changes to our websites and services, security updates, or assistance with using our websites and services marketing communications (about romance media or another product or service we think you might be interested in) in accordance with your marketing preferences asking you for feedback or to take part in any research we are conducting, which we may engage a third party to assist with. to support you: this may include assisting with the resolution of technical support issues or other issues relating to the websites or services. this will usually be by email. to enhance our websites and services and develop new ones: for example, by tracking and monitoring your use of our websites and services so we can keep improving, or by carrying out technical analysis of our websites and services so that we can optimise your user experience and provide you with more efficient tools. to protect: so that we can detect and prevent any fraudulent or malicious activity, and make sure that everyone is using our websites and services fairly and in accordance with our terms of use. to market to you: in addition to sending you marketing communications, we may also use your personal data to display targeted advertising to you online – through our own websites and services or through third party websites and their platforms. to analyse, aggregate and report: we may use the personal data we collect about you and other users of our websites and services (whether obtained directly or from third parties) to produce aggregated and anonymised analytics and reports, which we may share publicly or with third parties. we will not use or disclose (or permit the use or disclosure of) information that could be used to identify an individual member in any circumstances except: to ensure the proper functioning of our business and the websites; to communicate promotional offers and special events to you; to allow our trusted third parties, including our advertising partners, to communicate promotional and special offers to you; where the law requires us, or authorises us, or a company holding data on our behalf, to do so; or where you have given express consent to us for a prescribed purpose. we will not sell, distribute, rent, licence, disclose, share or pass your personal information onto any third parties, other than those who are contracted to us to keep the information confidential whether subject to a statute or a scheme regarding the handling of personal information. should a third party approach us with a demand to access your personal information, we will take reasonable steps to redirect the third party to request the information directly from you, wherever it is lawful and reasonable for us to do so. if we are compelled to disclose your personal information to a third party, we will take reasonable steps to notify you of this in advance, wherever it is lawful and reasonable for us to do so. our trusted third party partners comply with europe’s new general data protection regulation (gdpr). third party partners our third party partners, who may place cookies and tracking technology on your computer or device, include: google analytics– providing traffic analytics and demographics mailchimp, activecampaignand others – help us collect information for email subscribers so we can tailor our messaging to more personal preferences. amazon– tracks products we promote via affiliate links on our site commission junction– tracks products we promote via affiliate links on our site adthrive– our advertising partner who uses cookie information to deliver optimized ads to users. facebook– user analytics and advertising tracking twitter – user analytics and advertising tracking digital product delivery and e-junkie – delivery of e-products purchased by our subscribers security of personal information in our business, personal information may be stored both electronically and in hard-copy form. we are committed to keeping your personal information secure regardless of the format in which we hold it and we take all reasonable steps to protect your information from misuse, interference, loss, and unauthorised access, modification or disclosure. however, you use the websites at your own risk and we accept no responsibility, whether we are deemed to have been negligent or not, in the event of a security that affects your privacy. note that no information transmitted over the internet can be guaranteed to be completely secure. however, we will endeavour to protect your personal information as best as possible but we cannot guarantee the security of any information that you transmit to us, or receive from us. the transmission and exchange of information is carried out at your own risk. accuracy and quality of personal information we will take all such steps as are reasonable in the circumstances to ensure that: all information collected from you is kept accurate, up to date and complete; and the personal information that we use or disclose is, having regard to the purpose of the use or disclosure, accurate, up-to-date, complete and relevant. access to your personal information in most cases, you have the right to access the personal information that we hold about you. if you wish to access your personal information, please contact us at thehair@hairromance.com we will deal with all requests for access to personal information as quickly as possible. requests for a large amount of information, or information which is not currently in use, may require further time before a response can be given. we may charge you a reasonable fee for access if a cost is incurred by us in order to retrieve your information, but in no case will we charge you a fee for your application for access. whenever a fee will be applied, you will be notified of how that fee will be calculated, or where possible, the total amount that will be charged. you will then have the option to decide whether to proceed with your access request. in some cases, we will refuse to give you access to personal information we hold about you. this includes, but is not limited to, circumstances where denying access is required or authorised by or under australian law or a court/tribunal order or where giving you access would: be unlawful; have an unreasonable impact on other people’s privacy; prejudice an investigation of unlawful activity; reveal our intentions in relation to negotiations with you so as to prejudice those negotiations; prejudice enforcement related activities conducted by, or on behalf of, an enforcement body; reveal evaluative information generated within the romance media business in connection with a commercially sensitive decision-making process. we will also refuse access where the personal information relates to existing or anticipated legal proceedings, and the information would not be accessible by the process of discovery in those proceedings. further, we will refuse access where your request is frivolous or vexatious, and where we reasonably believe that: giving access would pose a serious threat to the life, health or safety of any individual, or to public health or public safety; unlawful activity, or misconduct of a serious nature, is being or may be engaged in against romance media and giving access would be likely to prejudice the taking of appropriate action in relation to that matter. if we refuse to give you access, we will provide you with reasons for our refusal, unless doing so would be unreasonable in the circumstances. we will also take reasonable steps to give you access in a way that meets your needs without giving rise to the reasons of our refusal. further, we will provide details of how you may make a complaint about our decision. these mechanisms for accessing your personal information operate alongside, and do not replace, other informal or legal procedures that may provide you with access to your personal information. correction of your personal information the accuracy of the personal information we have requested from you is important to us. should you suspect, or become aware that your personal information we hold is inaccurate, out of date, incomplete or misleading, please contact us at thehair@hairromance.com we will deal with all requests for correction of personal information as quickly as possible. requests relating to a large amount of information, or information which is not currently in use, may require further time before a response can be given. if we refuse to change the personal information as you request, we will provide you with reasons for our refusal, unless doing so would be unreasonable in the circumstances. we will also provide details of how you may make a complaint about our decision. further, in case of our refusal, you may request that we take reasonable steps to associate, with the relevant information, a statement that you view it as inaccurate, out of date, incomplete or misleading. in the case where we have corrected personal information about you, you may request that we take reasonable steps to give notice of the correction to any third party to which we have disclosed the inaccurate, out of date, incomplete or misleading personal information. these mechanisms for correcting your personal information operate alongside, and do not replace, other informal or legal procedures that may provide you with access to your personal information. concerns and complaints about breaches if you have concerns about how we handle your personal information, it is important that you notify us as soon as possible, so that we can address your concerns appropriately as the circumstances require. any concern or complaint should be made in writing. please send it to us at thehair@hairromance.com, and we will respond as soon as reasonably possible. disposal of personal information not required if we hold personal information about you, and we do not need that information for any purpose for which the information may be used or disclosed, we will take reasonable steps to destroy or de-identify that information unless we are prevented from doing so by law. unsubscribing from our e-mail database to unsubscribe from our e-mail database, please use the unsubscribe option, which is located at the bottom of every email we send to you, or send us an e-mail to thehair@hairromance.com with “unsubscribe” typed into the subject line of the e-mail. contacting us if you have any questions, concerns or ideas about how we could improve our website privacy policy, please contact us at thehair@hairromance.com. where you provide suggestions, materials or feedback, it is considered non-confidential and we may, at our complete discretion, use it to improve the website, service and/or how we handle personal information without any obligation to compensate you regardless of how we use, implement, copy, modify, display, distribute and/or otherwise benefit from your suggestions, materials or feedback. amendments of this privacy policy we are obligated to regularly review and update this policy. we therefore reserve the right to amend this website privacy policy at any time. should any significant amendments occur, notification will be provided by publication on the website 14 days prior to the changes being implemented (the notice period) unless the circumstances of the amendments makes it unreasonable to provide such a notice period. your continued use after the notice period has lapsed indicates your consent to be bound by the amended website privacy policy. website privacy policy last updated on 23 may 2018. hair romance – love your hair hi, i'm christina and welcome to hair romance. here you’ll find tutorials, tips and beauty advice to help you to love your best accessory: your hair. find out more here... search hair romance shop hair romance learn how to braid your own hair, style your curls and have new hairstyles every day with hair romance's ebooks. archives archives select month march 2020 january 2020 december 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 shopbop.com fast free shipping worldwide just arrived shop blankets shop blouse fast free shipping worldwide just arrived cotton citizen milan sweatshirt style keds keds x rifle paper co. champion floral sneake... boss hugo boss heart boss hugo boss kensington boots < > shop blankets reigning champ heart reigning champ mid weight terry stadium... faribault woolen mills buy buffalo check throw from faribault woolen... reigning champ get the look < > shop blouse ayr shopbop a.l.c. ella top bb dakota buy now at shopbop < > shop black lace bralettes, silver sandal heels, sweater cardigans, high rise skinny jeans and more. get this widget. hair romance all information copyright hair romance™ 2010-2020. hair romance is a registered trademark. quick links home about 30 days of curly hairstyles 30 hairstyles in 30 days 30 braids in 30 days 30 buns in 30 days advertise contact contact email: thehair[at]hairromance[dot]com mail: po box 1288, darlinghurst nsw 1300 twitter: @hairromance instagram: @hairromance copyright christina butcher 2020