login cheezburger search latest posts shop the cheezburger store cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation home shop the cheezburger store login submit privacy policy last updated: may 16, 2018 literally media ltd. ("literally media" or “company”) respects your privacy. this privacy policy (“privacy policy”) explains the privacy practices of company in connection with the users ("you", "your" or "user") access or use of the following websites owned and operated by company and included therein: www.cheezburger.com, www.knowyourmeme.com, and www.literally.media (together will be referred to as: "site") and company's products, mobile apps, software, data feeds, and services offered to you on, from or through the company websites (collectively the "service"). the privacy policy describes the ways company collects, processes and uses your personal information (as defined below) when using the service and the rights and options available to you with respect to your information. this policy is incorporated to the service's terms of service (the "terms of service" or the "terms") and is a legally binding agreement between the you and us. by accessing or using the site or our services, you acknowledge and agree to the terms and conditions set forth in this privacy policy, as required under applicable law within your jurisdiction. if you have any questions about this privacy policy, please contact us at: info@literally.media (or as described below). what type of information we collect? we may collect two types of information from you. the first type of information is non-identifiable information which may be made available via the use of the site or services. thus, we are not aware of the identity of the user from which the non-personal information was collected. (“non-personal information”). the non-personal information collected by us may include your aggregated usage information and technical information transmitted by your device, including but not limited to: type of browser and the settings, operating system, type of the device used to access our services, your isp, log data, visits to the website, pages viewed, items views or items saved, date and time stamp, duration on the page, approximate geographical location; (if you have that functionality set up) and the path taken in the website. the second type of information is individually identifiable information, namely information that identifies an individual or may with reasonable effort identify an individual (“personal information”). when you access or use the website or service we may collect the following personal information: (i) contact details: if you voluntarily contact us whether through the “contact us” page in the site, by sending us an email, or any other request or notification, you may be required to provide us with certain information such as your name and email address; (ii) newsletter subscription: if you voluntarily subscribe to our newsletter you will be asked to provide us with your name and email address. you can unsubscribe at any moment through the “unsubscribe” link; (iii) user’s comments: if you voluntarily leave a comment on the website or submit a review you will be asked to provide us with your name and email address. if we will decide to post your comment, it will be posted under the name you have provided; (iv) identifiers and precise location: we may collect certain identifiers such as your ip addresses, and precise location solely through the mobile app in the event you have consented to provide us with your location. note that, while these identifiers are considered personally identifiable information in many jurisdictions (such as the eea), there are some jurisdictions in which such data sets are not considered as personal data. therefore, we treat such information as personal data, in accordance with applicable laws. the data collected may be also stored on your device. please see opt – out options below; or (v) registration: in order to register to the services and create an account we require basic contact information such as: username, photos, email and password. alternatively, you register to the service via your existing third party social network account accounts such as facebook. in the event that you register to the services through your existing social network account, then such social network account provides us with access to certain information about you as is stored therein (e.g. full name, e-mail and any additional information which you made public). note during the registration process you will be provided with a user name and a password, which can be replaced following login in. you represent and warrant that you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your username and password and that you will not provide inaccurate, misleading or false information to us. if information provided to us subsequently becomes inaccurate, not updated, misleading or false, you will promptly notify us of such change. if we combine personal data with non-personal data, the combined data will be treated as personal data for as long as it remains combined. you may upload your personal information to the service and share the information with company and users of the service. the personal details that you upload, including any materials, videos, sound recordings, compositions, pictures, song lyrics, text, software, scripts, graphics, photos, videos, audiovisual combinations, interactive features and other materials you may view on, access through, or contribute to the service ("content"), may be accessible to other users and may appear in search results on the service. please use caution and common sense when you upload your personal information, especially any personally identifiable information. the content that you upload to the service is not private you have the control over the content that you wish to upload to the service. the content you submit to the service will be associated with your account. however the content that you upload may be available to other users of the service and the service's personnel, as well as to users of the internet in general, including through the use of search engine services. what does company do with your personally identifiable information? we collect personal information for the following purposes: the legitimate interest of operating the service. as well as recommend content based on your preferences. to respond to users' requests and feedbacks. to allow you to register for the services to respond to claims that any content available through the service violates rights of third-parties, to resolve disputes and enforce our policies, including investigation of potential violations thereof, for the purpose of law enforcement or in accordance with any applicable law or regulation. to post your content on the service and to facilitate communication between you and the service and other users; to provide you with further marketing and advertising material, subject to your prior indication of consent on the service. at any time, you may opt out of the service's mailing lists, by changing your preferences in your service’s personal account. we collect non-personal information for the following purposes the legitimate interest of operating the service. to perform research, analytics or for statistical purposes. to detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues. important notice about children's privacy you represent and warrant that, (i) if you are located in the us, you are at least 13 years of age; or if you are located in any other geo, you are above the age defined as “child” under applicable laws in your jurisdiction (collectively “child” or “children”); and (ii) you are of legal competence to enter into this privacy policy. if you are under 18, please be sure to read the terms of this privacy policy with your parents or legal guardians. the services are not directed or intended for children, as defined under applicable law, and we do not knowingly collect or solicit information from children. if we obtain actual knowledge that a user is considered as a child under applicable law, we will take steps to immediately delete such user’s personal information. if you become aware or have any reason to believe that a child has shared any information with us, please contact us at: info@literally.media provisions relevant to non u.s. users we may store or process your information in the united states or in other countries. if you are a resident of the european economic area ("eea") we will take appropriate measures to ensure that your information receives an adequate level of data protection upon its transfer outside of the eea. if you are a resident of a jurisdiction where transfer of your data requires your consent, then your consent to this privacy policy includes your express consent for such transfer of your personal information. how does company use aggregated information? company may use anonymous, statistical or aggregated information collected on the service, including posting, disseminating, transmitting or otherwise communicating or making available such information through the service, or to users on the service, to the service's suppliers, partners and any other third party, at the service's sole discretion. company may also use anonymous, statistical or aggregated information to properly operate the service, to improve the quality of the service, to enhance your experience, to create new services and features, including customized services, to change or cancel existing content or service, for marketing and advertising purposes, and for further internal, commercial, and statistical purposes. sharing information with others we do not sell, trade, or rent users' personal information to other parties. we may share information solely in the following events: when you use the service, or when you take part in any content-related activity. in these cases, the service will share your information to the extent necessary to facilitate your use of the service; if company reasonably believes that you have breached the service's terms of service, or abused your rights to use the service, or performed any act or omission that company reasonably believes to be violating any applicable law, rules, or regulations. company may share your information in these cases, with law enforcement and other competent authorities and with any third party, as may be required to handle any result of your wrongdoing; if company is required, or reasonably believes that it is required by law and/or law enforcement agencies to share or disclose your information; in any case of dispute, or legal proceeding of any kind between you and company or between you and other users with respect to, or in relation with the service; to operate the service and company’s services, to send messages, and to provide search results and links; in any case where company reasonably believes that sharing information is necessary to prevent imminent physical damage or damage to property; if company organizes the operation of the service within a different framework, or through another legal structure or entity, or if company is acquired by, or merged into or with another entity, provided however, that those entities agree to be bound by the provisions of this policy, with respective changes taken into consideration; company may also share personally identifiable information with companies or organizations connected, or affiliated with company, such as subsidiaries, sister-companies and parent companies, and other partners, with the express provision that their use of such information must comply with this policy. we use a tool called “google analytics” to collect information about use of the service. google analytics collects information such as how often users access the service, what pages they visit when they do so, etc. we use the information we get from google analytics only to improve our service. google analytics collects certain identifiers assigned to you on the date you visit sites, rather than your name or other identifying information. we do not combine the information collected through the use of google analytics with personally identifiable information. google’s ability to use and share information collected by google analytics about your visits to this site is restricted by the google analytics terms of use and the google privacy policy. you can prevent google analytics from recognizing you on return visits by disabling cookies on your browser. to learn more how google uses data from our use of google analytics cookie we recommend you review google’s policies located at: www.google.com/policies/privacy/partners. we also encourage you to review the google analytics' currently available opt-outs for the web tool available at: https://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout/. identifiers - we may disclose or share identifiers collected by us (as detailed above), for the purpose of operating our business and providing the services, as well as to calculate payments and detect fraud, security or technical issues in connection with the service; choice mobile opt-out: android-https://support.google.com/ads/answer/2662922 or ios-https://support.apple.com/en-il/ht205223. website opt-out: you may control how your browser responds to cookies by adjusting the privacy and security settings of your web browser. please refer to the support page of the browser you are using. in this regard, following are some links which you may find useful: google chrome: https://support.google.com/chrome/answer/95647?hl=en firefox: https://support.mozilla.org/en-us/kb/enable-and-disable-cookies-website-preferences internet explorer: https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/help/17442/windows-internet-explorer-delete-manage-cookies safari: https://support.apple.com/kb/ph21411 edge: https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-10-microsoft-edge-and-privacy opera: http://www.opera.com/help/tutorials/security/cookies/ industry standards you may opt out of certain advertisers’ cookies and browser-enabled, interest-based advertising at the network advertising initiative’s (“nai”) website- nai consumer opt-out and the digital advertising alliance’s (“daa”) website- daa opt-out page. if you wish to opt out of interest-based advertising, you may click here. please note you will continue to receive generic ads. opt-out you may also contact us at: info@literally.media and we will be happy to assist you. note that once you opt out, part of the services provided by us might no longer be available and some features may not work if you revoke the data transfer. in the event, that you have any additional complaints about your privacy rights, please initially contact the data protection officer. please note that you have the right at any time to contact your local data protection authority. user rights you have a right to know what information we hold about you and, in some cases, to have such information communicated to you. you may also ask for our confirmation as to whether or not we process your personal information. subject to the limitations in applicable law, you may also be entitled to obtain from us the personal information you provided to us (excluding information that we obtained from other sources) in a structured, commonly-used, and machine-readable format, and may have the right to transmit such personal information to another party. your principal rights under applicable data protection law in relation to your personal information are as follows: the right to access any information which is provided by you; the right to rectification; the right to erasure; the right to restrict processing; the right to object to processing; the right to data portability; the right to complain to a supervisory authority; and the right to withdraw consent (to the extent applicable). we provide you with the ability to exercise certain choices and controls in connection with our treatment of your personal information. depending on your relationship with us, to exercise your rights contact us at: dpo@literally.media. we reserve the right to ask for reasonable evidence to verify your identity before we provide you with any such information in accordance with applicable law. in addition, the process of locating and deleting the data may take up to one (1) month in accordance with applicable law. data privacy and related laws in your jurisdiction may provide you with different or additional rights related to the data we collect from you, which may also apply. if you wish to exercise any or all of the above rights, please contact us by email at: info@literally.media or contact our data protection officer at: dpo@literally.media and let us know that you wish to exercise your right of access and specify what personal information you would like to receive. where we are not able to provide you with the information for which you have asked, we will endeavor to explain the reasoning for this. data retention we retain the non-personal information we collect for as long as needed to provide the service, carry out our business purpose, perform our contract with you, and to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes and enforce our agreements, in accordance and compliance with applicable laws, or until an individual request us to delete its personal information, as detailed above, but not longer than 24 months in an identifiable form, or as required by law. please note that unless you decide to delete your user account by sending us a request do so, or any part thereof, or instruct us otherwise, we retain the information we collect for as long as needed to perform the above. once you delete your account you will not be able to recover it and will have to register again with a new account in case you choose to use the service. in addition, some of the data we receive depends on your privacy settings with the social network (i.e., facebook) and you should always review, and if necessary, adjust your privacy settings on third-party websites and services before linking or connecting them to our site. we are entitled to rectify, replenish or remove incomplete or inaccurate information, at any time and at our sole discretion. cookies company may use cookies on the service. cookies are packets of information sent by the service's servers to your web browser and then sent back by the browser each time it accesses the service's servers. the cookies may contain a variety of information, such as the content of search queries, the service's pages you have accessed, session durations and ip addresses. the service may use cookies for various purposes, such as to save you the need to re-enter your user name and password each time you log-in on the service, to facilitate the use of services on the service, to collect statistical information with respect to the use of the service, to verify information, to customize service to your personal preferences and for information security purposes. some of the cookies may expire when the session ends and you exit your browser. other cookies are saved on your computer’s hard drive. if you wish to block the service's cookies, then please use the help button in your browser and follow the necessary instructions. however, bear in mind that disabling cookies may complicate or even prevent your use of the service, or certain features thereof. you can find more information about cookies at www.allaboutcookies.org. you may remove our cookie by following the instructions of your device preferences; however, if you choose to disable our cookie, some features of our service may not operate properly and your online experience may be limited. you may control how your browser responds to cookies by adjusting the privacy and security settings of your web browser. advertising campaigns company permits third party advertising companies to place advertisements on company services and manage their display. in order to manage the advertisements, these companies post cookies on your computer and embed web beacons in the advertisements or in company websites' pages. web beacons are tiny graphics with unique identifiers, embedded in web pages and used to assist in collecting information about the sites usage. the collected information may identify you, and is only intended to match the displayed advertisements to your personal interests. the use of cookies and web beacons by advertising companies is subject to their own privacy policies and not to this privacy policy. such companies have no access to company's websites' cookies and company has no access to their cookies. should you wish to check the privacy policies of the companies that are managing the advertising scheme on company websites, you may do so via their own websites. to opt out of google's "interest-based ads" and to learn more about google's collection of your personal information to serve ads in connection with company websites, click here. we may use spot.im for targeted advertising, for more information please see spot.im privacy policy available here. to receive further information about the advertising companies that company works with, please contact us at: info@literally.media. information security your privacy is very important to the company and therefore we are committed to protecting your personal information from unauthorized access, use or disclosure. we have implemented physical, technical and administrative security measures for the services that comply with applicable laws and industry standards. for more information please see: security company seeks to minimize the amount of data that it stores on its servers in the first place. if you feel that your privacy was treated not in accordance with our policy, or if any person attempted gain unauthorized access to the personal information please contact us at: info@literally.media. further, in the event of a data incident, in which we discover your personal information may be at risk, then we will take reasonable efforts to notify you and the applicable authority (if required, subject to applicable laws). changes to this privacy policy company may from time to time change the terms of this privacy policy. substantial changes will take effect 7 days after company has posted an initial notification on the service's homepage or any other relevant web pages on the service, with respect to such changes. other changes will take effect immediately after their initial posting on the service, unless company amends the terms to comply with legal requirements. in such cases the amendments will become effective immediately upon their initial posting, or as required. you agree to be bound by any of the changes made in the terms of this policy. continuing to use the service will indicate your acceptance of the amended terms. if you do not agree with any of the amended terms, you must avoid any further use of the service. do not track disclosure our service does not respond to do not track signals. for more information about do not track signals, please see: http://www.allaboutdnt.com/. contact company you may send company requests, responses, questions and complaints, by contacting company at info@literally.media, or by post mail to: literally media ltd. maskit 32, herziliya, israel data protection officer if you have any requests regarding the data collected under this privacy policy, including without limitation, requests to remove, delete, amend, modify or transfer the data, please contact our data protection officer at: dpo@literally.media. please be sure to include your information in any correspondence to us so that we can respond to your inquiry in a timely manner. have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter back to top