home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer privacy your privacy is critically important to us. c&l will work to protect your information in accordance with this privacy policy. 1. use of personal information. c&l collects only information necessary for the operation of the site. this information includes, but not limited to; email address, internet protocol (ip) address, browser statistics, visitor trending and date/time of visits. this information will not be sold or shared with any other party, except to comply with any laws. 2. aggregated statistics. c&lmay collect statistics about the behavior of visitors to its websites. for instance, c&lc may monitor the most popular content on the crooksandliarscom . c&l may display this information publicly or provide it to others. however, c&l does not disclose personally-identifying information other than as described below. 3. protection of certain personally-identifying information. c&l discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only to those of its employees, volunteers, contractors and affiliated organizations that (i) need to know that information in order to process it on c&l’s behalf or to provide services available at c&l’s websites, and (ii) that have agreed not to disclose it to others. some of those employees, volunteers, contractors and affiliated organizations may be located outside of your home country; by using c&l’s websites, you consent to the transfer of such information to them. c&l will not rent or sell potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information to anyone. other than to its employees, volunteers, contractors and affiliated organizations, as described above, c&l discloses potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information only when required to do so by law, or when c&l believes in good faith that disclosure is reasonably necessary to protect the property or rights of c&l, third parties or the public at large. if you are a registered user of a c&l website and have supplied your email address, c&l may occasionally send you an email to tell you about new features, solicit your feedback, or just keep you up to date with what’s going on with c&l and our products. c&l takes all measures reasonably necessary to protect against the unauthorized access, use, alteration or destruction of potentially personally-identifying and personally-identifying information. 4. cookies. c&l uses cookies to help c&l identify and track visitors, their usage of c&l website, and their website access preferences. c&l visitors who do not wish to have cookies placed on their computers should set their browsers to refuse cookies before using c&l’s websites, with the drawback that certain features of c&l’s websites may not function properly without the aid of cookies. third party services may also use cookies to help identify users. it is the end users responsibility to check with those third party sites for their own privacy policies. 5. advertising. we allow third-party companies to serve ads and/or collect certain anonymous information when you visit our web site. these companies may use non-personally identifiable information (e.g., click stream information, browser type, time and date, subject of advertisements clicked or scrolled over) during your visits to this and other web sites in order to provide advertisements about goods and services likely to be of greater interest to you. these companies typically use a cookie or third party web beacon to collect this information. to learn more about this behavioral advertising practice or to opt-out of this type of advertising, you can visit networkadvertising.org. 6. privacy policy changes. although most changes are likely to be minor, c&l may change its privacy policy from time to time, and in c&l’s sole discretion. c&l encourages visitors to frequently check this page for any changes to its privacy policy. you should check this page from time to time for any changes that may occur. your continued use of this site after any change in this privacy policy will constitute your acceptance of such change. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc