home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs privacy policy effective date: may 28, 2018 pretty handy girl llc (“us”, “we”, or “our”) operates the https://www.prettyhandygirl.com website (the “service”). this page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of personal data when you use our service and the choices you have associated with that data. we use your data to provide and improve the service. by using the service, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy. unless otherwise defined in this privacy policy, terms used in this privacy policy have the same meanings as in our terms and conditions, accessible from https://www.prettyhandygirl.com definitions service – service is the https://www.prettyhandygirl.com website operated by pretty handy girl llc personal data – personal data means data about a living individual who can be identified from those data (or from those and other information either in our possession or likely to come into our possession). usage data – usage data is data collected automatically either generated by the use of the service or from the service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). cookies – cookies are small pieces of data stored on your device (computer or mobile device). data controller – data controller means the natural or legal person who (either alone or jointly or in common with other persons) determines the purposes for which and the manner in which any personal information are, or are to be, processed.for the purpose of this privacy policy, we are a data controller of your personal data. data processors (or service providers) – data processor (or service provider) means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the data controller.we may use the services of various service providers in order to process your data more effectively. data subject (or user) – data subject is any living individual who is using our service and is the subject of personal data. information collection and use we collect several different types of information for various purposes to provide and improve our service to you. types of data collected personal data while using our service, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you (“personal data”). personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to: email address comments cookies and usage data we may use your personal data to contact you with newsletters, marketing or promotional materials and other information that may be of interest to you. you may opt out of receiving any, or all, of these communications from us by following the unsubscribe link or instructions provided in any email we send. when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. usage data we may also collect information how the service is accessed and used (“usage data”). this usage data may include information such as your computer’s internet protocol address (e.g. ip address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. tracking & cookies data we use cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on our service and hold certain information. cookies are files with small amount of data which may include an anonymous unique identifier. cookies are sent to your browser from a website and stored on your device. tracking technologies also used are beacons, tags, and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyze our service. you can instruct your browser to refuse all cookies or to indicate when a cookie is being sent. however, if you do not accept cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of our service. examples of cookies we use: session cookies. we use session cookies to operate our service. preference cookies. we use preference cookies to remember your preferences and various settings. security cookies. we use security cookies for security purposes. advertising cookies. advertising cookies are used to serve you with advertisements that may be relevant to you and your interests. you can view our cookies policy here. comments when visitors leave comments on the site we collect the data shown in the comments form, and also the visitor’s ip address and browser user agent string to help spam detection. an anonymized string created from your email address (also called a hash) may be provided to the gravatar service to see if you are using it. the gravatar service privacy policy is available here: https://automattic.com/privacy/. after approval of your comment, your profile picture is visible to the public in the context of your comment. use of data pretty handy girl llc uses the collected data for various purposes: to provide and maintain our service to notify you about changes to our service to allow you to participate in interactive features of our service when you choose to do so to provide customer support to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our service to monitor the usage of our service to detect, prevent and address technical issues to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive such information legal basis for processing personal data under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are from the european economic area (eea), pretty handy girl llc legal basis for collecting and using the personal information described in this privacy policy depends on the personal data we collect and the specific context in which we collect it. pretty handy girl llc may process your personal data because: we need to perform a contract with you you have given us permission to do so the processing is in our legitimate interests and it’s not overridden by your rights to comply with the law retention of data pretty handy girl llc will retain your personal data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this privacy policy. we will retain and use your personal data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies. pretty handy girl llc will also retain usage data for internal analysis purposes. usage data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of our service, or we are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods. transfer of data your information, including personal data, may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from your jurisdiction. if you are located outside united states and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including personal data, to united states and process it there. your consent to this privacy policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer. pretty handy girl llc will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this privacy policy and no transfer of your personal data will take place to an organization or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information. disclosure of data disclosure for law enforcement under certain circumstances, pretty handy girl llc may be required to disclose your personal data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). legal requirements pretty handy girl llc may disclose your personal data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: to comply with a legal obligation to protect and defend the rights or property of pretty handy girl llc to prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the service to protect the personal safety of users of the service or the public to protect against legal liability security of data the security of your data is important to us, but remember that no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. while we strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect your personal data, we cannot guarantee its absolute security. your data protection rights under general data protection regulation (gdpr) if you are a resident of the european economic area (eea), you have certain data protection rights. pretty handy girl llc aims to take reasonable steps to allow you to correct, amend, delete, or limit the use of your personal data. if you wish to be informed what personal data we hold about you and if you want it to be removed from our systems, please contact us. in certain circumstances, you have the following data protection rights: the right to access, update or to delete the information we have on you. whenever made possible, you can access, update or request deletion of your personal data directly within your account settings section. if you are unable to perform these actions yourself, please contact us to assist you. the right of rectification. you have the right to have your information rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete. the right to object. you have the right to object to our processing of your personal data. the right of restriction. you have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal information. the right to data portability. you have the right to be provided with a copy of the information we have on you in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used format. the right to withdraw consent. you also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where pretty handy girl llc relied on your consent to process your personal information. please note that we may ask you to verify your identity before responding to such requests. you have the right to complain to a data protection authority about our collection and use of your personal data. for more information, please contact your local data protection authority in the european economic area (eea). service providers we may employ third party companies and individuals to facilitate our service (“service providers”), to provide the service on our behalf, to perform service-related services or to assist us in analyzing how our service is used. these third parties have access to your personal data only to perform these tasks on our behalf and are obligated not to disclose or use it for any other purpose. analytics we may use third-party service providers to monitor and analyze the use of our service. google analytics – google analytics is a web analytics service offered by google that tracks and reports website traffic. google uses the data collected to track and monitor the use of our service. this data is shared with other google services. google may use the collected data to contextualize and personalize the ads of its own advertising network.you can opt-out of having made your activity on the service available to google analytics by installing the google analytics opt-out browser add-on. the add-on prevents the google analytics javascript (ga.js, analytics.js, and dc.js) from sharing information with google analytics about visits activity.for more information on the privacy practices of google, please visit the google privacy & terms web page: https://policies.google.com/privacy?hl=en advertising we may use third-party service providers to show advertisements to you to help support and maintain our service. google adsense & doubleclick cookie – google, as a third party vendor, uses cookies to serve ads on our service. google’s use of the doubleclick cookie enables it and its partners to serve ads to our users based on their visit to our service or other websites on the internet.you may opt out of the use of the doubleclick cookie for interest-based advertising by visiting the google ads settings web page: https://www.google.com/ads/preferences/ links to other sites our service may contain links to other sites that are not operated by us. if you click on a third party link, you will be directed to that third party’s site. we strongly advise you to review the privacy policy of every site you visit. we have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. children’s privacy our service does not address anyone under the age of 18 (“children”). we do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 18. if you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your child has provided us with personal data, please contact us. if we become aware that we have collected personal data from children without verification of parental consent, we take steps to remove that information from our servers. for california residents california law gives residents the right to opt out of the “sale” of their personal information to third parties, including for advertising purposes. under california law, the sharing of your information with a service provider for advertising purposes could be considered a “sale.” to opt out of the sharing of your information for advertising information, [(if your site does not use infinite scroll, include this wording) click the opt out link provided in the footer of this page] [(if your site uses infinite scroll, include this wording) click the opt out link provided at the end of the post]. you also have the right to request from us the categories of personal information that we have shared and the categories of third parties to whom the information was provided. to make such a request, please contact us at [email protected]. to be clear we do not share your name, contact information, or any other sensitive information with third parties, and the categories of third parties that we share information with for advertising purposes are supply side platforms, programmatic advertising exchanges, and demand side platforms. changes to this privacy policy we may update our privacy policy from time to time. we will notify you of any changes by posting the new privacy policy on this page. we will let you know via email and/or a prominent notice on our service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the “effective date” at the top of this privacy policy. you are advised to review this privacy policy periodically for any changes. changes to this privacy policy are effective when they are posted on this page. contact us if you have any questions about this privacy policy, please contact us by email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok