warning: use of undefined constant ddsg_language - assumed 'ddsg_language' (this will throw an error in a future version of php) in /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sitemap-generator/sitemap-generator.php on line 44 warning: cannot modify header information - headers already sent by (output started at /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sitemap-generator/sitemap-generator.php:44) in /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sg-cachepress/core/supercacher/supercacher_helper.php on line 77 privacy/disclosure - state gifts usa welcome to state gifts usa about / faq national days list advertise with us contact us privacy/disclosure site map see our latest posts select page privacy/disclosure stategiftsusa.com treats the privacy of our website visitors with the utmost care and respect. we treat our website visitors as we’d like to be treated. we do not collect any personal information from our website visitors. we use google analytics to analyze our website traffic patterns. any data obtained from google analytics is used by us strictly on a global basis to better understand our traffic sources and to target content for this website. we would also like to disclose that some links on this site are affiliate links. that means if you click on one of those links and ultimately make a purchase from the receiving site, we may be entitled to compensation, based on a time period defined by the receiving site. in addition, jim hofman is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. no links are placed on this site based on any compensation we may receive, including any paid advertising. links are only placed on this site because we feel they are of value to you, our website visitors. this privacy and disclosure policy is published and effective as of june, 2016. if this policy changes, it will be posted here. stategiftsusa.com * all 50 states alabama: “the heart of dixie” alaska: “the last frontier” arizona: “the grand canyon state” arkansas: “the natural state” california: “the golden state” colorado: “the centennial state” connecticut: “the constitution state” delaware: “the first state” florida: “the sunshine state” georgia: “the peach state” hawaii: “the aloha state” idaho: “the gem state” illinois: “land of lincoln” indiana: “the hoosier state” iowa: “the hawkeye state” kansas: “the sunflower state” kentucky: “the bluegrass state” louisiana: “the pelican state” maine: “the pine tree state” maryland: “the old line state” massachusetts: “the bay state” michigan: “the wolverine state” minnesota: “the north star state” mississippi: “the magnolia state” missouri: “the show me state” montana: “the treasure state” nebraska: “the cornhusker state” nevada: “the silver state” new hampshire: “the granite state” new jersey: “the garden state” new mexico: “land of enchantment” new york: “the empire state” north carolina: “the tar heel state” north dakota: “the peace garden state” ohio: “the buckeye state” oklahoma: “the sooner state” oregon: “the beaver state” pennsylvania: “the keystone state” rhode island: “the ocean state” south carolina: “the palmetto state” south dakota: “the mount rushmore state” tennessee: “the volunteer state” texas: “the lone star state” utah: “the beehive state” vermont: “the green mountain state” virginia: “old dominion” washington d.c. washington: “the evergreen state” west virginia: “the mountain state” wisconsin: “the badger state” wyoming: “the equality state” facebook twitter google copyright 2018 stategiftsusa.com