menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login privacy policy what information do we collect? we collect information from you when you register on our site, place an order, subscribe to our newsletter, respond to a survey, or fill out a form. when ordering or registering on our site, as appropriate, you may be asked to enter your: name, e-mail address, mailing address, or credit card information. you may, however, visit our site anonymously. what do we use your information for? any of the information we collect from you may be used in one of the following ways: to personalize your experience (your information helps us to better respond to your individual needs.) to improve our website (we continually strive to improve our website offerings based on the information and feedback we receive from you.) to improve customer service (your information helps us to more effectively respond to your customer service requests and support needs.) to process transactions (your information, whether public or private, will not be sold, exchanged, transferred, or given to any other company for any reason whatsoever, without your consent, other than for the express purpose of delivering the purchased product or service requested.) to administer a contest, promotion, survey, or other site feature to send periodic emails (the email address you provide for order processing may be used to send you information and updates pertaining to your order, in addition to receiving occasional company news, updates, related product or service information, etc.note: if at any time you would like to unsubscribe from receiving future emails, we include detailed unsubscribe instructions at the bottom of each email.) how do we protect your information? we implement a variety of security measures to maintain the safety of your personal information when you place an order or enter, submit, or access your personal information. we offer the use of a secure server. all supplied sensitive/credit information is transmitted via secure socket layer (ssl) technology and then encrypted into our payment gateway providers database only to be accessible by those authorized with special access rights to such systems, and are required to keep the information confidential. after a transaction, your private information (credit cards, social security numbers, financials, etc.) will not be stored on our servers. do we use cookies? we do use cookies. do we disclose any information to outside parties? we do not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer to outside parties your personally identifiable information. this does not include trusted third parties who assist us in operating our website, conducting our business, or servicing you, so long as those parties agree to keep this information confidential. we may also release your information when we believe release is appropriate to comply with the law, enforce our site policies, or protect ours or others rights, property, or safety. however, non-personally identifiable visitor information may be provided to other parties for marketing, advertising, or other uses. third party links occasionally, at our discretion, we may include or offer third party products or services on our website. these third party sites have separate and independent privacy policies. we therefore have no responsibility or liability for the content and activities of these linked sites. nonetheless, we seek to protect the integrity of our site and welcome any feedback about these sites. childrens online privacy protection act compliance we are in compliance with the requirements of coppa (childrens online privacy protection act). we do not collect any information from anyone under 13 years of age. our website, products, and services are all directed to people who are at least 13 years old or older. online privacy policy only this online privacy policy applies only to information collected through our website and not to information collected offline. terms and conditions please also visit our terms and conditions section establishing the use, disclaimers, and limitations of liability governing the use of our website at http://tinybuddha.com/terms-of-use/ your consent by using our site, you consent to our privacy policy. changes to our privacy policy if we decide to change our privacy policy, we will post those changes on this page, and/or update the privacy policy modification date below. this policy was last modified on 10/22/13 contacting us if there are any questions regarding this privacy policy you may contact us using the information below. http://tinybuddha.com email(at)tinybuddha(dot)com this policy is powered by trust guard pci compliance. translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top