home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy privacy privacy policy modification date: may 28, 2018 hi, mary here. i care about the use of your personal information online. so here are the relevant pieces of information for you. a. what personal data do we collect from you? personal data is information that can be used to identify you such as your name, ip address, and email address. as a business, we collect personal data from you in a number of ways including: (1.) opt-in to email course: your name and address. (2.) transaction: you name, email address, payment source. (3.) submitting questions: your name, email address, and question. (4.) courses: your name and email address and payment processor. b. what is the purpose of processing your personal data? we collect the information above for the following purposes. (1.) opt-in to email course: to provide you with information on the course in question and the topic in general. (2.) transaction: to process a purchase you make with us. (3.) submitting questions: to answer questions you might have for us. (4.) optin to reports: to send you the information you are interested in as well as ongoing information about articles or products related to writing and writers. c. what legal basis do we have for collecting and processing your information? websites must have a legal basis for collecting information from individuals located in the european union. our legal basis for each of the ways we collect information from you is as follows. please note where consent forms the basis, you can withdraw consent at any time out of any email message using the “unsubscribe” link. (1.) opt-in to email courses or reports: we will ask for your consent first. (2.) transaction: we will collect your information as part of a legal contractual transaction. (3.) submitting questions: we have an allowed legitimate interest in providing a response to your questions and need to use your data to do so. we will not use the data for other purposes. (6.) relevant information for writers: we will ask for your consent first. “legitimate interests” for processing your personal information exist where you submit the information with an expectation that it will be processed and there is no undue impact on you. if you disagree or have questions, please contact [email protected] and we will cease the processing of your data under this legal basis. d. who has access to the data we collect? we process and access to the data we collect from you. however, we use third parties to assist us with processing your personal data including the following categories of recipients: financial transaction processors (processing your payments) customer service communication platform contest and survey platform email communication manager marketing funnel providers website management services website design and programming services these third parties have signed contract with us in which they are prohibited from utilizing, sharing or retaining your personal data for any purpose other than we dictate. e. cookies and similar technologies this site uses cookies and similar technologies to track particular aspects of you and other people who visit us. this tracking is done to provide us with information on how people move about the site, what is of interest to them and what is not, how our marketing is performing, and incidental items such as what percentage of users access the site from a personal computer versus a mobile phone. you may block most cookies by adjusting your browser settings as well as responding to the cookie consent notice that appears when you visit this site. f. how long do we keep your data? we keep your personal data for different periods of time depending on the reason it was gathered in the first place. (1.) opt-in to email courses and information about writing: 36 months (3.) transaction: four years for tax audit purposes. (4.) submitting questions: five years (5.) lessons: 36 months if a legal claim arises involving your data, we will store and disclose that data until the matter has resolved. g. your right to ask for corrections, erasure, and export of your data you have the right to control your personal data. specifically, you have the following rights: the right to be informed: we are informing you now with this policy. the right of access: we’ll provide you with the data we have about you. the right to rectification: request we fix incorrect data about you. the right to erasure: request we erase certain data about you. the right to restrict processing: ask us to restrict certain type of processing of your personal information. the right to data portability: ask us to provide your personal data we have for export. the right to object: object to how we use your data. rights in relation to automated decision making and profiling: we don’t profile you, but keep in mind you have this right with other sites. to exercise any of these rights, please contact [email protected] with your request. h. your right to withdraw consent although this is mentioned above, we want to emphasize that wherever we’ve asked for your consent to collect or process your personal data, you have the right to withdraw that consent. if you receive email messages from us, you can use the “unsubscribe” link in each message to withdraw consent and stop the mailings. alternatively, you can contact [email protected] with your request. i. do we transfer your data to third countries? no. we are located in new zealand. your data is collected and held here. j. privacy concerns, contacting us, complaints. you can contact us at [email protected] with your request with any questions or requests you have about these policies or your personal data. if, after contacting us, you feel a privacy issue has not be resolved, you have the right to file a complaint with a supervisory authority such as the privacy commission of new zealand. data controller representative: mary jaksch writetodone.com mayroyd house 4a mayroyd terrace nelson, 7010 new zealand a. privacy policy modifications and updates. we may update and modify this privacy policy at any time. in doing so, we will post a notice on the site 30 days before the change goes into effect and forward an email message to you should we have an email address for you. b. legal disclosures of personal information. we may process, store, and disclose personal information if required to do so by law or in the good-faith belief that such action is necessary to (1) conform to the edicts of the law or comply with legal process served on us, (2) protect and defend our rights or property or (3) act under exigent circumstances to protect the safety of the public or users of the site. c. dmca disclosures we comply with the digital millennium copyright act of 1998. as part of the compliance process, we may be required to disclose whatever information we have for you to a copyright holder who has submitted a complaint to us. d. public comments. you may leave comments on forum posts. please remember that any information you provide is not private. the information can be viewed by anyone online including family, friends, the media, investigators, and potential employers conducting background checks. e. third party websites. we link to other sites, but please keep in mind that we do not control the privacy policies of those sites. make sure to review the policies of any such sites before providing your personal information. f. sale of business should we sell this site or our business, your personal information will be an asset transferred to the new owner. if you have any questions about this privacy policy, please contact us: [email protected] right to be forgotten tweet pin share copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >