menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies privacy statement thank you for visiting this site, which is owned and operated by the thought & expression company llc (“we” “our” or “us”). we want you to know how information about you is collected, used, and shared with others. we also want you to know about the choices you have when you visit us at https://www.thoughtcatalog.com or https://collective.world (our “sites”). as used in this privacy statement, the word “including” means including, without limitation. if you do not agree to the collection, use, or sharing of your information in the manner described in this privacy statement, please do not access or use the sites or communicate with our writers or us by email. our business is located in the united states. any information that you provide to us, including personal information, may be transferred to and processed in the united states. if you reside outside of the united states, please be advised that the united states does not offer safeguards to protect personal information that are as stringent as some other jurisdictions in the world. the european union does not consider u.s. privacy safeguards to be adequate to protect personal information. when we collect personal information from outside of the united states, we rely on lawful mechanisms to transfer to and process that information in the united states. lawful mechanisms include your consent, performance of a contract, and other legitimate interests. in situations where we rely on consent to process your personal information, you have the right to withdraw your consent. by using our sites, you consent to your information being collected, used, and transferred as disclosed herein. information we collect when you visit our sites, send us or one of our writers an email, submit or comment on an article, or otherwise communicate with us or one of our writers, we may collect or have access to personal information that you voluntarily provide to us, one of our writers, or third parties acting on our behalf. we may also collect personal information from third parties including our business partners for marketing purposes and other purposes. personal information is information through which you can be identified such as your name, email address, photograph, and telephone number. if you engage with our sites through third-party social networking sites, we may have access to certain information associated with your social media account such as your name, email address, photograph, birthday, location, and people you follow or like. for information on controlling access to your personal information through social networking sites, you should review their privacy policies and terms of use. we may use (or authorize third parties to use) web beacons, cookies, pixel tags, scripts, e-tags and other technologies (“tracking technologies”) at our sites to collect information about you, your online behavior, your computer, and your mobile device to optimize our sites’ functionality, collect statistics, and deliver content tailored to your interests. such information may include the type of browser and operating system you are using, the domain name of your internet service provider, your geographic location, the pages you visit, how long you visit each page, the unique number assigned to your server or internet connection, etc. these are stored in log files. we may combine this automatically collected information with other information we collect about you. we do this to improve the services we offer you, to improve marketing and analytics or site functionality. we (or authorized third parties) may also collect anonymized cookies and other data obtained through tracking technologies from third parties for ad-targeting purposes. at this time, we do not recognize automated browser signals regarding tracking mechanisms, which may include “do not track” instructions. however, you can change some of your privacy preferences through your browser. for example, you can delete browser cookies from your computer or set your browser to reject browser cookies. however, doing so may limit some functionalities of our sites. also, blocking or deleting browser cookies may not block or delete other types of cookies including flash cookies. we use local storage (ls) such as html5, to store content information and preferences. third parties with whom we partner to provide certain features on our sites or to display advertising based upon your web browsing activity also use html5 or local shared objects (lso’s) such as flash cookies to collect and store information. various browsers may offer their own management tools for removing html5. to manage flash cookies, please click here. for additional information about browser privacy preferences, please consult the “help” section of your browser. our sites include social media features, such as the facebook “like” button, and widgets, such as the “share this” button or interactive mini-programs that run on our sites. these features may collect your internet protocol address, which page you are visiting on our sites, and may set a cookie to enable the feature to function properly. social media features and widgets are either hosted by a third party or hosted directly on our sites. your interactions with these features are governed by the privacy statement of the company providing the features. use of information we collect we may use the information we collect for our own marketing and non-marketing purposes. for example, we may use your personal information to alert you to upcoming articles, features, or events. with your permission, we may share your personal information with third parties in the united states and other jurisdictions for marketing purposes. we may also share information collected through tracking technologies with third parties in the united states and other jurisdictions for marketing and non-marketing purposes. for example, information collected through tracking technologies may be shared with our affiliates and business partners for joint marketing purposes or for their own marketing purposes. we may also license or sell information collected through tracking technologies to third parties for marketing and non-marketing purposes. in addition, we may merge personal information with information collected through tracking technologies and with information we may obtain from other sources and, as a result, such information may become personal information. if you do not want us to use or share your personal information for marketing purposes, you may opt-out in accordance with the “how to opt-out” section below. in some instances, you may also opt-out of the use of information collected through tracking technologies for online behavioral advertising in accordance with the “how to opt-out” section below. please note that even if you opt-out, we may still use and share your personal information with third parties for non-marketing purposes such as fulfilling your requests, responding to your inquiries, etc. in such cases, the companies with whom we share your personal information are authorized to use your personal information only as necessary to provide these non-marketing services. we may share or transfer your personal information and information collected through tracking technologies and other sources if we enter into a business transaction such as a merger, acquisition, reorganization, bankruptcy, or sale of some or all of our assets, or in preparation for any of these events. any party that acquires our assets as part of such a transaction may continue to use your information in accordance with the terms of this privacy statement. we may also disclose this information as required by law, such as to comply with a subpoena or similar legal process when we believe in good faith that disclosure is necessary to protect our rights, protect your safety or the safety of others, investigate fraud, or respond to a government request. service providers we may use third parties to assist with some of the services we provide (e.g., site maintenance, analytics, marketing, etc.). in such cases, these third parties may be provided with access to your information as reasonably necessary to perform such services on the condition that they not use or disclose your information for other purposes. information collected by third parties some content on our sites may be hosted, sponsored by or co-branded with third parties who may obtain personal information from you if you voluntarily submit such information or participate in sponsored or co-branded activities such as sweepstakes and promotions. when you provide your personal information to such third parties, their privacy policy will detail how you may exercise choice regarding your personal information use and further sharing. we are not responsible for the information collection or privacy practices of such third parties. therefore, you should review their privacy practices carefully before participating or providing personal information to such third parties. third parties may also serve advertisements and use tracking technologies to collect information about you and your activities at our sites such as the links you click, the advertisements you see and click, the categories of search terms you enter, etc. these third parties may use the information collected at our sites and other websites for a variety of purposes including analytics and providing advertisements about goods and services that may be of interest to you. this type of advertising customization is sometimes referred to as “online behavioral” or “interest-based” advertising. for more information about tracking technologies please visit http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/faqs.asp or if you are located in the european union, please go to http://www.youronlinechoices.eu/. please note that the use of tracking technologies by third parties at our sites is subject to their own privacy policies, not our privacy statement. if you would like more information about your choices concerning online behavioral advertising, including how you may opt-out of some uses of information collected by members of the network advertising initiative and the digital advertising alliance, see the “how to opt-out” section below. how to opt-out if you do not want personal information that we collect about you to be used for our own marketing purposes or to be shared with third parties for their marketing purposes, you can opt-out of such use and sharing by emailing your request to us at privacy@thoughtcatalog.com with the words “opt-out” in the subject line of the email. you can obtain information about your choices concerning online behavioral advertising including how you can opt-out of some uses of information collected by members of the network advertising initiative that may serve advertisements at our sites by visiting http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp or if you are located in the european union, please go to http://www.youronlinechoices.eu/. we adhere to the digital advertising alliance’s self-regulatory principles for online behavioral advertising. you can opt-out of some uses of information collected by members of the digital advertising alliance by clicking the “ad choices” link which is on our sites and in some advertising on our sites. for further information about the digital advertising alliance, please visit http://www.aboutads.info. links to other websites our sites contain links to other websites. we are not responsible for the information collection or privacy practices of other websites. for example, if you click on an advertisement that links to another website, this privacy statement will not apply to information collected at that other website. we recommend that you review the privacy statements of other websites before you visit those websites or provide any personal information. submissions and comments you can submit articles for publication on thought catalog by visiting collective world at https://collective.world and uploading your submission. all information you provide through the collective world site is subject to this privacy statement. you can also post your own comments and other information at our sites (“comments”) through our comments platform, which is run by facebook. comments posted at our sites are subject to our privacy statement and facebook’s privacy statement. because our sites receive significant traffic and are accessible to anyone on the internet, you should not submit articles or post comments that are private or that you do not want to be used and viewed by others. you are solely responsible for any legal or other repercussions that occur as a result of articles you submit or comments you post at our sites. we assume no responsibility or liability which may arise from your articles or comments posted on our sites. access to personal information you may access, update, and correct inaccuracies in your personal information which is in our custody and control by emailing us at privacy@thoughtcatalog.com. we may request certain personal information from you for the purposes of verifying your identity. we will respond to your request within 30 days. data retention we will retain your personal information for as long as necessary to provide any services you request (e.g., our newsletter, author profiles, etc.), and as necessary for the performance of legal agreements, to comply with legal obligations, to resolve disputes, and for other legitimate purposes. security we have implemented administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to help prevent unauthorized access, use, or disclosure of personal information in our custody or control. however, we cannot guarantee that these safeguards will prevent the unauthorized access, use or disclosure of your personal information. persons under 18 our sites are not intended for persons under 18 and we do not knowingly collect personal information from persons under 18. if you are the parent or guardian of a person under 18 and believe that he or she has provided personal information to us, please contact us at privacy@thoughtcatalog.com and we will delete their information promptly. your california privacy rights california law requires certain businesses to respond to requests from california residents asking about the disclosure of personal information to third parties for their marketing purposes. alternately, such businesses may adopt a policy of not disclosing personal information to third parties for marketing purposes if a california resident has opted-out of such information-sharing. we have an opt-out policy in place. if you wish to opt-out of our sharing your personal information with third parties for marketing purposes, please follow the “how to opt out” instructions above. questions or concerns if you have any questions or concerns regarding this privacy statement, you may email us at privacy@thoughtcatalog.com. we will do our best to answer your questions and address any concerns in a timely manner. revisions to this privacy statement we may revise this privacy statement from time-to-time in our sole discretion. we will provide notice to you by posting a notice to our sites before we make any material changes to our privacy practices or to this privacy statement. please visit our sites and review our privacy statement periodically for changes. by continuing to access or use our sites after changes become effective, you agree to be bound by the terms of the revised privacy statement. effective: may 31, 2018 the thought & expression company 190 n. 10th st., suite 305 brooklyn, ny 11211 share this: twitter facebook get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.