got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos love line featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their marriage work! home › priyanka chopra › priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their marriage work! gotta do what you gotta do to make it work! priyanka chopra jonas and her husband, hunky musician nick jonas, are finding that out as they wind through their young marriage. in fact, the pair has already figured out they need to follow one important rule to maintain their relationship, and make everything else work along with it! related: nick and priyanka’s naughty puppy is ripping up everything! oh, no! the 37-year-old actress opened up about this in the may issues of tatler, explaining to the mag how it was possible for her and the jonas brothers frontman to keep things working well between them even when both have such insanely busy schedules. chopra got candid about the adjustments they’ve made in marriage, saying to the mag: “we don’t go more than two [or] three weeks without seeing each other. that’s a rule. it’s too hard otherwise, and you’ve got to work on the relationship, to prioritize it.” amen to that! this sexy couple always stuns on the red carpet! / (c) fayesvision/wenn for these two, keeping close also means potentially starting a family one day soon. the talented indian star was mum about when that might happen, and said there are no specific plans in the mix yet, but she did tease the mag a little bit, nevertheless. chopra added: “right now, this year’s really packed for me in terms of the work that i’m doing and the work that i’ve taken on. but having a family is very important to me and it always has been. it is something that i definitely want to do and i’m hoping that whenever god wills it, at the right, opportune time, it’ll happen.” love it!!! related: sophie turner gushes about priyanka and danielle jonas! this tatler interview was done several months ago, of course. but with the coronavirus pandemic sweeping the world right now, it’s forced priyanka and nick to settle in at home and self-quarantine, like all the rest of us. chopra hasn’t been shy about sharing health tips and home pics to her instagram account during the quarantine. and as the actress wrote in the comments section of one of her posts, things have gotten crazy — but everybody around her is healthy: “we’ve always had such crazy schedules and had so many people around us all day that all of a sudden this being our reality feels just crazy, and i’m sure all of you feel the same way. we’re taking all the recommended precautions right now. we’re safe, we’re healthy, we’re practicing social distancing.” doing the smart thing! of course, if these two lovebirds have a baby when this crazy world returns to normal, this means they’ll have to spend way more time together then every couple weeks… but something tells us they would love doing that all the same! so fun to watch young love bloom like this! what do y’all think about it, perezcious readers?! sound off with your take on all this down in the comments (below)!!! [image via wenn/avalon] related posts sophie turner gushes about ‘built-in girlfriends’ priyanka chopra & danielle jonas — and claims she used to hate the jonas brothers! vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? vote: who was best dressed at the 2020 grammys?? nick jonas & priyanka chopra’s naughty puppy gino is ‘ripping up everything,’ oops! click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 12:55pm pdt share this categories awwwww coronavirus family health heartwarming love line nick jonas parenting priyanka chopra travel view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy