search join our facebook community problogger’s guide to blogging for your business a blog is part of your business plan… but where do you start? with problogger’s guide to blogging for your business. as a business owner you don’t have the time to take the trial and error approach, you need help from someone who’s done it all before and can show you how to build a successful blog for your business, right from the start. in this 143 page ebook, business owner, activist, and blogging coach mark hayward guides you through creating a successful online presence for your business. take the guesswork out of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business takes the guesswork out of business blogging and it’s perfect for you if you are: time-poor: you don’t have time for guesswork and dead-ends action-oriented: you want to do, not read focused: you understand that building a business blog will take time astute: you’re not looking for get-rich-quick gimmicks human: you don’t want to feel overwhelmed of frustrated determined: you need to succeed step-by-step advice to save hours of time and endless frustration by the time you’re finished this ebook will have helped you: set up a wordpress blog… without any technical know-how. conduct targeted keyword research… even if you’ve never done it before. understand your online competition… whether they’re next door, or on the next continent. build a strong social media footprint… even if you don’t know the first thing about finding “followers.” set a successful business blogging strategy… no matter what your product or market. what’s in this ebook? over 12 simple, practical chapters, mark distils his experience as a bricks-and-mortar business owner who built his clientele using simple, cost-effective online methods. defining blogging and how it will benefit your business defining your goals getting started with blogging deciding on and registering a domain name installing wordpress intro to wordpress plugins developing a content strategy and editorial calendar developing content ideas and fighting blogging frustration publishing your first blog post finding readers and traffic for your blog optimizing flickr and youtube for your blog’s online presence creating your social media footprint and measuring your blogging roi a practical guide to achieve your goals – no matter what your business practical tasks at the end of each chapter let you implement mark’s mentoring in a way that suits your business, and your customers. because this ebook is written in a practical, step by step way. you’ll be blogging before you know it and your business will be: reaching the right people building your customer base growing your brand establishing profile and influence within your industry blogs level the playing field and enable you to play with more established competitors in your industry – but the key is to start. money-back guarantee if you’re not satisfied with problogger’s guide to blogging for your business after 30 days, let us know and we’ll refund your money—that’s how confident we are that this is a resource that will help you build a solid, successful online presence for your business. download your copy now your online customers are waiting. download your copy of problogger’s guide to blogging for your business now and start reaching more clients immediately for just $49.99 usd. cheap advice is easy to find, good advice is much more difficult – and can cost you a fortune…. this is an investment that will benefit your business for years to come. recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved