events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: dreamforce marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise product reviews browse this section for professional product reviews of small business tech products, services, apps and resources to make running your business more efficient and effective. have a suggestion for a product or service for us to review? contact us. ooma office provides enterprise features at small business prices even in this digital age, a small business phone system is still very important. if you want one that's affordable, and scales, check out ooma for business. aug 6, 2018 127 shares sponsored by ooma the typing game makes entrepreneurs faster and more accurate at the mobile keyboard if you're not a millennial, you may need an app like the typing game to up your mobile communications game. check it out after the jump. jun 19, 2018 132 shares shortpixel image optimizer can speed up your business site the shortpixel image optimizer works to make your site load faster, a key factor given google's upcoming implementation of its mobile-first index. may 31, 2018 67 shares vizzlo: create charts and graphs for your biz in seconds vizzlo is a charts and graphs maker that has removed the barriers of cost and time, so you can create them on your own in minutes. here's how. may 5, 2018 2 shares lg’s v30 flagship smartphone offers a dust-proof, water resistant option for business we're taking a look at the new lg v30 specs to see if the latest smartphone from the electronics giant is right for your small business. mar 15, 2018 86 shares taskade provides simple to use collaboration software the collaborative list app taskade provides an easy-to-use platform for you to create lists and share them with your team. our review after the jump. dec 7, 2017 116 shares designevo offers easy and free diy logo design for your business designevo is for anyone that is seeking a logo, but doesn’t have the experience, time or budget to pay a designer to create a logo. nov 28, 2017 137 shares lilac gives tax help to freelancers if you have been looking for a free tool that can help you keep track of your finances, then you will be happy to learn about the lilac app for freelancers. jul 18, 2017 176 shares is picmonkey a good alternative to canva, yes or no? can picmonkey stack up against canva? we take a look inside the easy-to-use tool and answer that question in this picmonkey review. jul 12, 2017 155 shares smartlook examines customer behavior on your site — with free and paid options the smartlook website visitor tracker promises to give you a unique insight into your visitors' behaviors. is it worth it for your small business? jun 19, 2017 148 shares boost your productivity! dictation.io offers simple, free dictation tool the free dictation software, dictation.io, promises to be a quick and easy dictation tool available online. can it help your small business? jun 13, 2017 263 shares can lumen5’s ai really create marketing videos automatically? read on lumen5 is a video creation platform, powered by artificial intelligence, that turns blog posts into social videos. read our lumen5 review. jun 8, 2017 148 shares 1 2 3 … 20 next → subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad coronavirus biz advice 25 ways you can help small businesses now view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit