skip to content college info geek productivity menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search productivity how much time did you spend procrastinating today? it doesn’t matter how smart you are; if you can’t get yourself to buckle down and actually do your work, you’ll never achieve your goals. of course, the portion of your brain that’s focused on the long term knows this well – but it doesn’t always steer the ship. social media sites, cat videos, and random urges to google “how much does a chimp bench press” often put your short term-focused lizard brain at the helm, breaking your concentration and destroying your productivity in the process. this collection of resources will help you to fight against those distractions, improve your actual ability to focus, and boost your overall productivity. the end goal: accomplish more in less time. if you can master your productivity, you can get a ton of stuff done and still have free time left over every single day. best tools and apps to keep you productive the best to-do list app in 2020 – our top 12 picks the 11 best note-taking apps in 2020 – evernote, notion, and more the best time tracking apps in 2020: toggl, clockify, and more how the bullet journal can make you a more productive student the ultimate study music playlist stay motivated and build self-discipline how to stop procrastinating: the only guide you’ll ever need how to actually break your bad habits the cold shower – my #1 exercise for building self-discipline how to wake up feeling motivated every single morning how to actually stop wasting time on the internet make the most of your time overwhelmed? try these 3 unconventional time management tips why multitasking makes you less productive (except when it doesn’t) how to make consistent progress on your goals take my free class on mastering habits building habits isn’t just about discipline; there are real-world steps you can take to set yourself up for success! in this course, you'll learn how to set realistic goals, handle failure without giving up, and get going on the habits you want in your life. learn more attain unbreakable focus how to stop procrastinating and focus: a guide to the pomodoro technique the flow state: how to enter your brain’s most productive state this technique can help you focus like an elite athlete – the “amrap” mentality how the internet destroys your focus (and how to get it back) how to study with intense focus: 6 essential tips our best podcast episodes on getting things done deep work: how to focus and resist distractions (ep. 100) morning routines (ep. 208) how to build strong habits (ep. 214) how to actually use productivity tips and improve your life (ep. 176) productivity lessons from video game design (ep. 265) essentialism: how to do more by doing less (ep. 171) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.