skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports productivity make the most out of your 24 hours every day! if your biggest side hustle holdup is a lack of time, these posts and podcasts episodes will help you build more efficiency into your weeks. productivity is a constant journey and i’m always experimenting with new hacks and tactics. 5 core habits in a decade of studying productivity methods and “hacks”, i’ve found that just a handful of keystone habits tend to make the biggest impact on my personal productivity. those keystone habits are: setting short-term “sprint” goals, and breaking those down into the smallest actionable steps. identifying your top 1-3 priorities each day and measuring your progress on those. practicing gratitude. establishing and tracking too-small-to-fail “micro habits”. identifying and tracking your key performance indicators. these are the habits i baked into the progress journal. it’s a physical paperback journal i use to keep me on track and making meaningful progress. it’s not a huge time commitment or massive lifestyle shift. in fact, using this journal should take less than 5 minutes a day. click here to learn more and see if it’s a fit for you. healthywage review: get paid up to $10,000 to lose weight march 17, 2020january 3, 2020 have you ever tried to get healthier and lose weight, but lost motivation before reaching your goals? perhaps you’ve gone as far as buying a gym membership or expensive exercise equipment only for them go unused after your initial commitment. but what if you could lose weight and make money doing it? would that be enough motivation to stick with your exercise and diet regimen? 58 comments 11 simple ideas that tripled my business march 16, 2020october 10, 2019 sometimes the simplest solutions are the most effective. this post (and podcast episode) are inspired by my presentation at fincon last month. i broke my own rule of not seeking out any speaking gigs, and submitted for a breakout session. the idea was a bit of an homage to the conference: 10 fincon breakthroughs that tripled my business. 4 comments hiring your first virtual assistant: when, where, and how to do it right january 27, 2020july 11, 2019 the hard truth is that we all have a limit to our capacity and how much we can do in and on our businesses — and that’s a tough pill to swallow for some entrepreneurs and small business owners. but when you’re up against that ceiling you have to decide between two options — you can settle in, like ok, this is my life now. or you can ask for help in breaking through, and that’s what this episode is about. growing your team in such a way that you have some breathing room in your schedule and in your mental bandwidth to do the work that’s required of a business owner, instead of the work of the business doer– to borrow from sean marshall in episode 312. 7 comments 322: my 5 favorite books of the year and my top takeaways from each february 14, 2019february 14, 2019 “we are simultaneously gods and worms.”—abraham maslow power plus humility, right? it’s a great combination and something to keep in mind as we try and build our businesses. we can accomplish amazing things, and yet, we’re gone in a flash. mere blips on the historical radar. but let’s be the gods of our side hustle … read more 7 comments 5 ways to be more effective every day – in just 5 minutes november 13, 2018november 13, 2018 side hustlers know a thing or two about productivity. after all, building a business is hard work — and doing it with limited hours is even more challenging. you know it’s not just about getting more stuff done; it’s about getting more of the right stuff done. because busy doesn’t always mean effective! 13 comments 302: catching up with the $30k a month piano teacher — how he grew his business while cutting back his hours 97% november 15, 2018september 27, 2018 you might remember jacques hopkins from episode 223, where he broke down how he turned his hobby of playing piano into a solid $20k a month online business at pianoin21days.com. things were going great; he had a bunch of happy customers, he’d quit his engineering job to focus on it full-time, and he was doing what he loves. 3 comments 301: accelerate your business with outsourcing: best practices from hiring over 300 freelancers january 14, 2019september 20, 2018 at a certain point, you reach the ceiling of your own capabilities, of your own capacities, and no amount of productivity hacks are going to get you to the next level? so what do you do? you hire some help! leave a comment 290: willpower 101: 8 ways to strengthen this critical success muscle march 2, 2020july 5, 2018 willpower predicts academic and professional success better than iq, or charisma, or having rich parents. it’s not the only ingredient in our success recipe, but it’s a critical one — and one i certainly struggle with at times. so how do we get more of it? leave a comment 276: 27 “weird” productivity hacks you can try today november 22, 2019march 29, 2018 what are the quick, simple, and maybe a little “weird” productivity tricks entrepreneurs use to get more done? well, i’m always curious about that myself so i decided to ask 26 of my most productive and successful friends for the “hacks” and tools they use every day. (and i added in one of my own … read more 7 comments 261: health and fitness for busy entrepreneurs – the most overlooked productivity hack? december 10, 2019december 14, 2017 i felt gross. i was tired from chasing a toddler around, out of shape, and fighting a series of frustrating injuries. and i realized it was hurting my output at work. building a business takes real energy and real brainpower, and i wasn’t performing optimally because my body wasn’t performing optimally. i knew i had to do something about it. 3 comments post navigation older posts 1 2 … 4 next → search for: join the nation! free report reveals the 5 fastest ways to make more money! i'm a hustler! greatest hits 99 side hustle business ideas you can start today 200+ ways to make extra money in your spare time 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that actually work how to start a blog [free 6-part video course] credit card rewards 101: how to earn free cash and travel by spending smarter my tedx talk: and the story behind it. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok