home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: product read more featured / product #67: bangaly kaba – what it takes to become a product manager at facebook & instagram by timur meyster on october 12, 2017 bangaly kaba shares his story on how he broke into product management from a non-traditional backgrounds in education and finance. originally from the east coast, bangaly is now considered as one of the best pms… read more featured / product #50: jessica uelmen – a hardware engineer who became a product manager at fitbit by timur meyster on may 17, 2017 a self-confessed nerd and sailor moon enthusiast, jessica uelmen built her first html/css website at 13 years old and got involved with theater during college until she ultimately decided to major in electrical engineering during… read more featured / founders / growth / product / uncategorized #44: anthony pompliano – how an army sergeant became a product manager at facebook by timur meyster on april 24, 2017 anthony “pomp” pompliano is best known for his hustle. since early years, he’s been coming up with business ideas and today he invests in companies and helps them grow. before he became a venture capitalist,… read more featured / founders / product #32: carlos gonzález de villaumbrosia – founder of product school by timur meyster on march 13, 2017 it is his love of tech that got carlos gonzález de villaumbrosia to immigrate from spain to the united states. being good at numbers and video games, led him to study computer science at one… read more featured / founders / product kevin lee – product manager hq by timur meyster on september 30, 2016 kevin lee is dedicated to teaching people the fundamentals of product management through product manager hq and also currently works in venture capital at fundersclub. before becoming a founder, he previously worked in product at… subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!