skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us productivity tips for bloggers: 9 hacks we use to get 3x more done lauren mcmanus updated: 1/14/20 • comments: 30 home » create and go blog » grow your blog » productivity tips for bloggers: 9 hacks we use to get 3x more done disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin164 shares164 some of these productivity tips are going to seem downright weird to you… you’re probably going to think we’re a couple of freaks by the end of it, but i can guarantee you that there are at least a couple of tips on this list that you’ve never heard of before! i know that it’s easy to look at our success and think that it just ‘came easily’ to us and that we just have a ‘knack’ for it or possess some qualities that you don’t have. i know that because i saw the same thing in others that i looked up to when i first started. but that simply isn’t true. as we outlined in our stages of blogging success, there is what we call a “poop stage,” and we know this from personal experience. alex and i were in the trenches for many months, plugging away for hours into the nights and weekends on our blogs, with nothing to show for it. not only did it take us 6 months to make any money from our first blog, but we also had a failed blog and a lot of money down the drain under our belts. on top of that, we were both working full-time jobs through all of this. i was a recently certified public accountant working your typical 9-5 and alex was a certified personal trainer, also working a pretty standard 40-hour workweek. so, how did we manage to get our blog off the ground and actually successful? these are our best tips, tricks, and strategies that we learned over those first few dark months of hard work on the road to success. and don’t worry, y’all… we aren’t going to just tell you to work more and spend less. we did some super weird things to get where we are today, including surviving mostly off eggs and rice for a few weeks (more on that later…). you’ll want to hear this. here is an overview of what we will cover: table of contents close open 1. meals 2. wardrobe 3. alarms 4. consistency and convenience 5. social life 6. the one task 7. saying no 8. deep focus 9. investing alex and i have done some seriously random, weird, and questionable things in the name of productivity and time management. let’s talk about them! 1. meals do you know how much time and energy you can save by eating the same meals every day? yes, i mean same breakfast, same lunch, and same dinner. every day. for weeks. okay, we’d rotate out a few other meals here and there to make sure we were getting enough nutrients. but i remember eating salmon for dinner almost every night for probably a month at one point. as a previous health blogger, i’m not recommending this as proper diet advice. but i want to illustrate a point. deciding what you will eat every day and how you will cook it (on top of actually cooking it) takes a lot of mental time and energy that you don’t have as a new blogger. having these decisions made for you frees up a lot of time and energy to focus on your new blog. write down your top 2-3 favorite dishes for each meal that are relatively quick and simple to make and try to cook them as often as you can to simplify your life a bit. 2. wardrobe this was a weird one that we picked up while living in austin and it’s one that has stuck with me ever since. we, as a society, also spend far too much time thinking about what to wear every day and far too much money buying new clothes when you get sick of your old ones. alex and i decided to limit our wardrobe to white, black, and gray plus one accent color — which turned out to be green for both of us. but everything in our closets matched and it simplified the thought process for deciding what to wear every day. and kept us from buying shit we didn’t need. and y’all… pro travel tip… i still do this now while i’m traveling! i often live out of a suitcase for months at a time and limiting my colors allows me to have more outfits to mix and match — without taking up too much space in my luggage. 3. alarms one of the biggest problems with trying to blog with a full-time job was that we were giving away our most productive hours of the day to our other jobs. those first few, coffee-fueled hours of the day were the most productive and we felt like they were being wasted. we made the decision to forgo an hour or two of sleep most days to set an early alarm and work on our blog before going to our full-time jobs. this is tough and requires a lot of self-discipline, but it was worth it. we also kept this up long after we quit our full-time jobs because those early morning hours are so important to get a lot of deep, focused work in on our blogs. and for some of you, this might not be in the morning. if you’re a night owl, your most productive hours may be late at night. in that case, try delaying bedtime by an hour or two to crank out a couple more hours on your blog! 4. consistency and convenience honestly, all of the time-management and productivity tips that we can give you revolve around two things: consistency and convenience the more decisions you allow to creep into your day, the more distractions and wasted time you will have on your hands. do your best to simply as much of the decision-making processes you can in your day. alex and i are able to do this mostly through consistency and convenience. we have a lot of repetition in our workdays and do what we can to keep food, transportation, workouts, etc. as convenient as possible. i know that it sounds boring and i promise you that blog life is a lot ‘less sexy’ behind the scenes, but this is how we achieved success so quickly. and now that we have it, we can take more time for the personal things and decisions in our lives. it’s a temporary sacrifice that you make to help you stay focused and budget your limited time. 5. social life it’s time to say goodbye to your precious social life… this goes hand-in-hand with time-management because one of the biggest sucks on your time is your social life. this was especially hard for us because we were 26 years old when we started and were living in the heart of uptown dallas – aka where all of the young professionals work hard and play hard. alex and i were accustomed to weeknight happy hours, weekend brunches, and a lot of pool days in the summertime – all of which came to an end when we got serious about our blog. a post shared by lauren mcmanus (@laurenitous) on sep 4, 2015 at 2:32pm pdt this is a tough one for many, and you can try to balance it if you’d like. but remember that 8 hours at brunch at the pool means 8 fewer hours of work put into your blog, which roughly translates into: a newf post written tons of pinterest pins created an outline for a new product a series of marketing emails written 8 hours doing anything more productive than day drinking at the pool okay, maybe you’re not at the stage of life where you’re still day drinking at the pool in your spare time. but if you’re married with kids, this still applies to you. skip that family bbq or ask your husband if he can make the saturday soccer game so you can stay at home and put in some work to create a better future for your family. the point is that you must make sacrifices if you want success – especially if you want it quickly. the hardest part about this is that your friends and family likely won’t understand. they will put pressure on you to make time for them and they likely just won’t understand your priorities during this stage. do your best to explain as much as you need to and be firm in your decision to make your blog the priority right now. 6. the one task this is an important one because as a blogger, you are a one-man show and responsible for all tasks that need to be done at any given time. the problem is that if you work on multiple projects at once, nothing ever gets finished and it’s half-assed at best when it does finally get completed. to avoid the overwhelm and failure involved in this, get organized. write out a to-do list of all of the most critical tasks that you need to work on. then, prioritize them based on what is the most important. work on that one most important task to the success of your business first, and do not move on until the task is completely finished. and guys, let me give you a little clue here… it is not blog design. everyone and i mean everyone, spends days on this task first and foremost when they first start. i know because we did it and so many of our new bloggers fall into the same trap despite our warnings. this is why it’s important to get some help in the beginning. find bloggers that will teach you the ropes without all the mistakes. as a new blogger, you literally have everything ahead of you, including: blog design, content creation, email collection, blog traffic, monetization, etc. and it’s not just about the what to do – the timing of when you do these tasks matters just as much, if not more. 7. saying no on that note, it’s super important to learn how to just say no to people. whether it’s asking you to blow off work and do something fun or someone needs a favor… get better at knowing the value of your time and when you need to just politely say no to someone because something isn’t worth your time. don’t let anyone give you a hard time for spending time indoors on the weekend. and don’t feel bad about not offering up help every single time you’re asked. you deserve to put yourself first from time to time. if people truly love and support you, they will understand. 8. deep focus once you have prioritized your tasks and you know what you need to work on and when you need to work on it, it’s time to shut out the world and find your deep focus. think of ‘deep focus’ like deep sleep. it’s those few hours where you’re basically dead to the world. it can be really hard to get into this place, but once you do, it’s like productivity on steroids. you’ll get so much done and feel so accomplished. everyone will have a different place for ‘deep focus,’ so try out a few different things to find yours. for me, it’s usually at a café or co-working space where i can plug in my headphones for hours and not be interrupted. a post shared by lauren mcmanus (@laurenitous) on jul 23, 2018 at 9:30pm pdt for some people, it’s at home. i personally find that i get too distracted at home and i often interrupt myself by getting up often for food or other things. find your work groove and get in it as much as possible! the best work to be done in deep focus are things that require a lot more mental thought and energy: blog post writing, product creation, writing emails, etc. some tasks that are better to prioritize outside of your deep focus are image creation (like social media images), blog design, etc. i also find that my deep focus generally happens in the morning but if you’re a night owl, you may be the opposite! bottom line: do whatever you can to minimize all distractions when in the precious little time you do get to work on your blog! 9. investing let’s be honest… we could all be a little better about managing our money. always. i know for a fact that many of you that tell me that you can’t afford the $29/month for convertkit are spending the same amount of all kinds of non-discretionary items. i know this because alex and i are the same way. everyone is. it’s human nature. we make space in the budget for the things that matter to us. the problem is that we generally have our priorities all out of whack and end up spending our money on the wrong things. how is this related to productivity? the right investments in your blog will make you more productive and save you a ton of time and headaches. if you’re trying to begin with a free blog and get by as cheaply as possible, you will get cheap results. if you don’t invest a penny, you will never make a penny. it’s as simple as that. for all of you out there that are wanting to tell me, “but i don’t have any money to invest in my blog right now,” i have to tell you that a career in blogging isn’t for you. we aren’t here to sell you on some get-rich-quick scheme or make this look easy. if you aren’t willing to spend any money on your new blog/business, the life of an entrepreneur is not for you. i don’t mean to discourage any of you either. i just want to make sure that you have the right expectations going into this. you can start with free options, but you cannot expect to make any real money with those free options. we honestly spent several thousand dollars over those first few months learning everything we could, implementing the strategies that we learned, and mostly failing. but through all of that trial and error, some things stuck. we eventually found something that worked and were able to double our revenues for those first 5 months of fings. and the rest is history! we’re not asking you to invest thousands of dollars on your new blog. most people don’t have the income to do that. for more information on the expected costs to start a blog, see our post below. you don’t have to have tons of capital to invest in your blog when you’re getting started. but also don’t allow yourself to believe that you can’t afford literally one of the best investments you can make for your blog (again, convertkit) but then turn around and buy a pair of $70 shoes or keep up with your weekly starbucks latte habit. the little things add up and it comes down to whether or not you want to make your blog a priority or not. alex and i chose to make it the most important priority in our life, and our experiences speak for themselves here. i was in credit card debt at the very early stages of the discussions about starting a blog, and the idea of starting and running my own business was what finally motivated me to get the damn debt paid off once and for all. i’ve been debt-free ever since. alex and i also started eating eggs and rice for dinner every night for a few weeks at a time to save money because we were investing so much into our business. again, as a health blogger, i am not advising you to take it to this level of extreme. i just want to show you how dedicated we were to the things that mattered to us. if you have any questions for us on how to blog with a full-time job or anything else we discussed in this article, please feel free to leave us a comment below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin164 shares164 about lauren mcmanus about lauren mcmanus lauren has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a degree in accounting, she has taken her life experience and business knowledge and used it to grow two blogs, avocadu and create and go, to 6 and 7 figures. she is a traveling digital nomad working from around the world. read her inspiring story on how she went from broke and frustrated to $100,000/month blogging in 3 years. read this next 17 best blogging tips (for newbies to advanced bloggers) for 2020 if you’re looking for a cutesy article that’s going to give you a high-level vague overview of some blogging tips for beginners, you are not in the right place. this is going to be a deep dive. both rookies and blogging pros are going to gain massive insights from this article. we’re also going to […] keep reading > similar articles grow your blog 14 fresh blogging statistics that change the game and how you should blog in 2020 how to build an email list: 5 ways to get subscribers on your blog 11 headline writing hacks for your blog to get 3x more clicks pinterest traffic for bloggers: how we get 300,000+ monthly visits see all blog posts 30 leave a reply 15 comment threads 15 thread replies 1 followers most reacted comment hottest comment thread 18 comment authors recent comment authors subscribe newest oldest most voted notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments guest diana i used to work full time and it was such a nightmare to stay consistent with my blog posts because my work schedule was inconsistent. some days i worked 10 hours and others i’d work 18. now my blog is my main focus and i’ve gotten into a groove as far as posting my content. funny that you ate just egg and rice; i’ve done rice and beans or just ham and cheese sandwiches every day in order to save up some time. it’s incredible how much meal prepping can throw your schedule off balance. when i launched my blog… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren hey, diana. congratulations on your blog launch this year! keep us updated on your progress 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest nico i work full-time (more than full-time, really) and have started my blog, thanks to you both. i will be purchasing access to the “launch your blog” course. i followed some of the steps to publishing/launching it using the 7-day free e-course. i purchased access to the divi themes and i’m sold on following the course to see how well it works. i am happy to share what i learn to help other folks who are interested. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren that’s awesome! keep us updated on your progress 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest mel thanks a lot for these advice! i’m an education blogger and i’m already earning a small sum from products and ads. but i’m having a hard time sticking to my schedule and scaling my product/blog. i just blog whenever i want to and hoping for instant success. sometimes i don’t even visit my blog for a month or two! phew you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago admin alex and lauren you’re welcome! let us know if you apply some of these tips to your blog 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 7 months ago guest samuel carlton this list is both eye-opening and sobering at the same time. as a blogger with a full-time job, i’ve found that the biggest things that i’ve hand to keep better tabs on have been meal-preparation and laundry. getting a quick bite to eat at a fast-food-place or take-out-restaurant racks up extra expenses quickly; making time to prepare meals for the week (and making sure laundry is done) is a full-time battle by itself. kudos for including real-life-examples of what you both did as well. your articles on starting a blog were what made me interested in blogging, so i just… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 9 months ago guest riyaaz basha now, i know the things which made me fail in 1st blog. i was doing it for absolutely free, also, i didn’t invest in blogging at all. moreover, i didn’t know what email marketing is. for those of you reading this remember, you have all it takes to become successful in a blog, if you in right way, that is. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren that’s great you realized that! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest cleibert mora nice blog post, it’s true i’m working on my second blog, the first one fails :c but i’m still an enthusiast with this model business you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest elric when do you consider one blog failed? how or why ? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago admin alex and lauren sometimes, you can just tell. a lot of effort put in and then crickets. could be a product launch too early or your interests changed. many different reasons you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 10 months ago guest bry great read! i can definitely relate to these sacrifices! i am a full time teacher, mom of 3, and blogger who believes that efficiency is the key to making it all work! ~bry from inspired to revamp you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest amit thanks for this useful post. i have a full time job as a software developer. its very hard for me to grab some time from busy schedule for my blog. this post really helps me . you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren so happy to hear that, amit!! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest jeromebrownweb i’ve read in places like smartblogger that you can start with no money in places like medium and when you build traction you migrate to wordpress, maybe this could work if you have no money at first? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, jerome! you certainly could take that route, but it will take you several months or more longer to become successful. if you invest a little up front, you can speed up the process tremendously. otherwise, you’re going to end up spending more money in the long run because of the amount of time that you are sacrificing. hope that helps! we discuss more about the expected costs to get started in our article titled “how much does it really cost to start a blog? first 3 months and beyond”. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest morgan can’t wait to start your monetization course soon. just finished the build and launch your blog course. ? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren so happy to hear that, morgan!! glad you liked it! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest emily great article, i just purchased your course on how to launch your blog and working my way through the check list. i am going to start working on my blog before my 9-5 & kids wake up. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren that’s awesome, emily! so happy to hear that you’re making time for it – even though your schedule is a bit hectic! those extra few hours in the day can make all the difference! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest katherine how do i decide my niche? you guys have the healthy living blog and this create and go, how did you rule out what to write for your blog? you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren hey, katherine! we started in the health and wellness niche because alex was a certified personal trainer and nutrition specialist for a few years before we started. he definitely had the professional experience in the area. i was a vegan for two years, so i was also very passionate about health and wellness. as far as create and go is concerned, we developed the experience from starting and monetizing the above health and wellness blog. alex and i also both have business degrees, so that helped with this blog as well. i would definitely stick with a topic that you… read more » you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest draga great article, guys! i can definitely relate to all of these, especially eating the same food every day, it frees up so much time. thanks for the tips! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren thank you! glad you liked it! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest michael bishop great article! for our family, it’s been about making sacrifices to work on the blog. we’ve had many friends think i’m just wasting my time and tell me you need to get a ‘real’ job, etc.. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren totally understand that, michael! alex and i experienced the same thing from even very close friends and family. you just have to keep pushing forward and know that you know what you’re doing and that’s all that matters! you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago guest caroline @ my freedom empire thanks for this! as a newer blogger i sometimes get a bit discouraged when i’m making sacrifices without seeing much in the way of results yet but it’s good to know that i’m not alone. you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago admin alex and lauren definitely not, caroline! we never want to make it easy. thanks for reading! 🙂 you must be logged in to vote0you must be logged in to vote reply 1 year ago primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. meals 2. wardrobe 3. alarms 4. consistency and convenience 5. social life 6. the one task 7. saying no 8. deep focus 9. investing footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz