skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources professional blogging do you have a blogging personality? may 24, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments when it comes to making money online, traffic is king. can a blogging personality help you drive that traffic? even though i provide a lot of content, i don't think much about traffic. even on my own … continue reading about do you have a blogging personality? 5 realities of high paying freelance gigs january 26, 2016 by miranda marquit 3 comments if you're looking in the wrong places, you'll have a hard time finding high paying freelance gigs. one of the most common questions i receive has to do with finding high paying freelance gigs. when i … continue reading about 5 realities of high paying freelance gigs just what is a high paying freelance gig, anyway? january 5, 2016 by miranda marquit 3 comments we all want to land a high paying freelance gig or two (or three). but how do you know if that gig is truly worth your time and effort? at fincon15, i offered a short presentation on how to get paid … continue reading about just what is a high paying freelance gig, anyway? want a higher freelance rate? ask for it december 29, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment if you aren’t getting something you want, don’t assume you just can’t have it. you can ask for a higher freelance rate. even though i’ve been freelancing for more than 10 years, it’s still difficult … continue reading about want a higher freelance rate? ask for it how to get periscope videos onto youtube december 8, 2015 by miranda marquit 3 comments several readers have asked about how to get periscope videos onto youtube. here's the process i followed during my short-lived persiscope experiment. for a few months earlier this year, i answered … continue reading about how to get periscope videos onto youtube do you know why you write? a purpose for every post november 17, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment before you say yes to another writing gig, or agree to another pro bono post, stop and think about why you write. i've started thinking more about why i do things and prioritizing what matters to me. … continue reading about do you know why you write? a purpose for every post go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 13 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com