welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog feeling more confident on-the-job: meet elena published on: jan 28, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2007 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we sat down with elena mazzolini, a senior veterinarian in northern italy. elena took the project management micromasters® program from ritx, and used the knowledge that she learned to improve her performance at her job and improve her project management skills. what program did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i took several edx courses (mostly on data analysis)... read more about feeling more confident on-the-job: meet elena learning from my micromasters program while on-the-go and on-the-job: meet andrew published on: apr 24, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 3145 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i learned about edx a few years ago after graduating from college. even though i had my combined bba/mba, i was eager to keep learning, but needed a cost effective and flexible option. moocs were just becoming popular around this time, but i didn’t seriously consider pursuing a certificate until i began my career at united airlines. i quickly learned that most of the business... read more about learning from my micromasters program while on-the-go and on-the-job: meet andrew furthering success and confidence at work: meet yusif published on: mar 27, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 5396 views 1 comment posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i stumbled across ritx’s micromasters program in project management when looking at online courses on coursetalk – and i couldn’t be happier that i did. i was working as a project manager at a furniture company, and was overwhelmed with the responsibilities of the job because i lacked prior training in project management. i was often stressed and i approached my day to day work... read more about furthering success and confidence at work: meet yusif 23 new professional certificate programs from industry leaders and top universities published on: jan 23, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 11517 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post reddit ama with digital project management industry leaders—july 13th, 2017 published on: jul 11, 2017 by carolyn tiernan 3768 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post our ama is live! join us here from 1pm – 3pm est. many want to become a digital product manager but don’t know what it really means. what skills do you need, and what job opportunities are there in the industry? in the digital product management micromasters, those questions and more will be answered by experts from boston university’s questrom school of business. in the five-course program,... read more about reddit ama with digital project management industry leaders—july 13th, 2017 muhammad: learning new skills anytime, anywhere to explore new subjects and expand his horizons published on: mar 24, 2017 by sara reich 5862 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post muhammad, 40, a learner from islamabad, pakistan, explains how edx is helping him learn new skills to advance his career and make the world a better place. the first course i ever completed on edx was ielts academic test preparation from uqx. i was interested in improving my english listening, speaking, reading and writing skills, and the course really helped me to accomplish that goal.... read more about muhammad: learning new skills anytime, anywhere to explore new subjects and expand his horizons project managers are in-demand in 2017 published on: jan 18, 2017 by leonie fernandes 20385 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post job opportunities for project managers continue to grow at a rate of 1.5 million opportunities per year. whether you work in information technology, healthcare, manufacturing, finance, energy, construction or business services – all of these industries are in need of project management talent. increasing complexity of business operations and global market places are demanding faster, better, cheaper solutions for clients that meet ever-increasing expectations of performance. ... read more about project managers are in-demand in 2017 6 development courses to help you transform the world published on: jan 12, 2017 by justine goulart 7216 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2015, countries from all over the world adopted a new set of sustainable development goals (sdgs) as part of the united nation’s transforming our world: the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. the agenda set forth 17 “global goals” as a plan of action for our world to end poverty and hunger, protect our planet and ensure prosperity for all. below is a snapshot of the 17 goals. the un’s... read more about 6 development courses to help you transform the world entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career published on: dec 28, 2016 by justine goulart 6427 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post why study business? aside from business being the most popular field of study worldwide, particularly at the graduate level, gaining foundational business skills gives you the opportunity to advance your career in a variety of different companies and industries and in a variety of different roles, from accounting and finance, to marketing and advertising. also, salary expectations for those with a business degree rank the third... read more about entrepreneurship and business management micromasters programs to advance your career top 5 benefits of a micromasters program: improve your life, advance your career published on: oct 18, 2016 by alice randall 15329 views 1 comment posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post last month we announced the micromasters initiative, the next evolution in our mission to increase access to high-quality education and help learners improve their lives and advance their careers. accelerated and flexible, micromasters programs are a first-of-its-kind, credential with a pathway to credit with value to academic institutions and employers. alongside 14 of our partners, we launched 19 programs – spanning in-demand subject areas from project management to android... read more about top 5 benefits of a micromasters program: improve your life, advance your career page 1 of 2 current page: 1 page 2 » next page search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close