u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition project zero project zero is an ongoing series to raise awareness around neglected tropical diseases and efforts to fight them. at least 18 of these diseases affect more than 1 billion people worldwide -- but they're not on the public's radar. where shoes are a luxury, a nightmarish disease may be lurking in rural ethiopia, something in the soil can trigger a deforming disease. by tom gardner, on assignment for huffpost they fled war at home. now they’re fighting death in crowded refugee camps. “a refugee camp is a hotbed for disease." by peter martell where zika came from early cases of the virus were different from those today. by peter martell trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad how a warlord’s legacy has thwarted relief for a mysterious disease in uganda at least 3,000 children have a baffling seizure disorder. for many, it's a reminder of the years of brutal unrest. by peter martell why the u.s., one of the world's richest countries, struggles with diseases of poverty an estimated 12 million americans have a disease linked to extreme poverty. by catharine smith newsletter sign up must reads look under the hood, and take a behind the scenes look at how longform journalism is made. subscribe to must reads. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. how humans are laying out the welcome mat for mosquitoes and the diseases they carry climate change is partly to blame, but it’s not the whole story. by sara perria why the world ignores diseases of poverty over 1 billion of the world's poorest people have at least one of these illnesses. by charlie ensor, on assignment for huffpost children with baffling seizure disorder face uncertain future in northern uganda thousands of kids have nodding syndrome. no one's sure how they got it, or how to cure them. by peter martell the biggest cause of preventable blindness just won't go away trachoma, easily treatable, blinds thousands of the world's poorest every year. by tom gardner, on assignment for huffpost meet the americans who live with open sewers in their yard thousands across the u.s. are believed to live in unsanitary conditions. by catharine smith how experts fight a disease when they don’t know whom it’s killing melioidosis is thought to infect 160,000 people every year. half of them don’t survive. by sara perria inside a modern-day plague outbreak controlling the epidemic in madagascar means addressing the stigma around the disease. by edward carver, on assignment for huffpost watch: the battle against sleeping sickness huffpost traveled to congo to document efforts to fight this deadly disease. by paul josephson watch: what life is like when a parasite destroys your sight huffpost traveled to nigeria and congo to document the fight against this preventable disease. by paul josephson watch: what life is like with the disfiguring disease elephantiasis huffpost traveled to nigeria to document efforts to fight this illness. by paul josephson newsletter sign up must reads look under the hood, and take a behind the scenes look at how longform journalism is made. subscribe to must reads. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.