newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close projects before and after: this $500 living room redo proves the power of painthome projects you'll want to give all your shelves an ombre paint job after seeing these. alison goldman 9 things pros would never pay for in their own kitchen remodelhome projects if the pros won't do it, why should you? erin johnson yesterday before and after: tearing out this kooky carpet transforms this living roomhome projects these homeowners got their keys at 4 p.m. on a friday, and by 6 p.m. had already started tearing out the carpet. alison goldman 2 days ago this diyer turned a $5 thrift store clock into something unrecognizablehome projects the transformation cost just $20—but looks way more expensive. megan baker 2 days ago 6 inspirational hacks that make ikea's $10 lack table look like a million buckshome projects you don't have to spend a fortune to get a high-end look. sarah lyon 3 days ago 20 (basically) free makeovers to do at home with stuff you already havehome projects yes, f-r-e-e. sarah lyon 3 days ago nate berkus is filling his free time at home with diy projects—and sharing them on instagramhome projects time to check things off your to-do list. olivia harvey mar 23, 2020 before and after: this 1970s front door got a springy redo in just a weekendhome projects this curb appeal update has lots of doable ideas. megan baker mar 22, 2020 8 under-$50 products to make your home office feel more like a workspacehome projects new to work from home? here's how to turn a makeshift desk into a productive workspace. megan baker mar 21, 2020 10 of our favorite home office redos to inspire your work-from-home setuphome projects spoiler: you can make a home office almost anywhere. ashley poskin mar 20, 2020 want to try a new hobby? these 7 diy kits are beginner-friendly and start at $10home projects now's the time to try something new. megan baker mar 20, 2020 before and after: a $2,500 refresher keeps this 1950s kitchen's charm intacthome projects all the inspo you need to wallpaper your kitchen. megan baker mar 19, 2020 before and after: paint and elbow grease totally transform these sad stairshome projects these stairs just leveled up—by a lot! megan baker mar 18, 2020 spray paint plus a $0 secret ingredient totally transform this glass bowlhome projects this redo features a seriously clever hack for achieving a cool, vintage look. megan baker mar 18, 2020 before and after: a storage nook turned chic, practical home office for $150home projects from junk storage to productivity haven. megan baker mar 17, 2020 8 ways to make your rental bathroom feel like it's in a fancy hotelhome projects no reservation required. kelly dawson mar 16, 2020 before and after: one little change totally transforms this rental bedroomhome projects so much of this redo uses things that were already in the room—the ultimate budget hack. megan baker mar 15, 2020 grow a garden salad these 13 vegetables you can plant in early springhome projects turn your garden into a produce aisle with these 13 easy-to-grow vegetables. erin johnson mar 15, 2020 before and after: just $2,000 turns this '90s kitchen into a scandi-boho dreamhome projects this diy kitchen redo is full of smart savings. megan baker mar 14, 2020 jumpstart your spring garden by planting these colorful blooming perennialshome projects 16 different flowering perennials that will give your garden charm year after year. erin johnson mar 14, 2020 15 inspiring dresser redo ideas that go beyond just painthome projects you'll never pass up an old piece of furniture again after you see these makeovers. cat meschia mar 13, 2020 before and after: this springy $1,000 bathroom redo covers every little detailhome projects the before is fine, but the after will give you heart-eyes. megan baker mar 11, 2020 this diyer turned a plain ikea stool into something much more luxe for under $50home projects this diy is so easy—and super high-impact. megan baker mar 11, 2020 before and after: a cookie cutter camper gets a black and white modern farmhouse makeoverhome projects chip & jo would be proud. lauren jones mar 11, 2020 before and after: a $340 diy bedroom proves the power of a fresh, fun paint jobhome projects this budget bedroom has some super smart ideas. megan baker mar 10, 2020 tossing unused paint is more complicated than you thinkhome projects here's how to do it right, whether you're working with oil, latex, or spray paint. erin johnson mar 10, 2020 before and after: this powder room's after is full of the best kind of dramahome projects the wallpaper will make you gasp. megan baker mar 9, 2020 deal alert: costco has 7-foot-tall palms for less than $30 eachhome projects you can bring home a royal-looking palm for a commoner's price. megan baker mar 9, 2020 before and after: $140 turns a cramped closet into a super organized entrywayhome projects cubbies! hooks! baskets! this entryway's small, but it's got it all. megan baker mar 8, 2020 before and after: with less than $100, this dark dresser is totally transformedhome projects you won't recognize the after. megan baker mar 7, 2020 before and after: $200 made this living room window seat a dramatic focal pointhome projects this black-and-white redo is totally diyable. megan baker mar 6, 2020 ikea cabinets are the secret to this high-end (but low-cost) mudroomhome projects this ikea hack has the look of custom woodwork—but costs a lot less. katelin hill mar 6, 2020 kristen bell nearly installed his-and-her bathroom vanities that would make every “symmetry-lovin’ brain” explodehome projects unlike most his-and-her vanities, bell and shepard’s countertops would be different heights to account for, well, their different heights. olivia harvey mar 5, 2020 we gave diyers $50 to transform a mystery object—the results will delight you makeover madness first up: turning a blah brown doormat into a cheery welcome. megan baker mar 4, 2020 before and after: this living room proves "cozy" doesn't have to mean "cramped"home projects knocking out a wall made this space way more inviting. alison goldman mar 3, 2020 before and after: a $250 accent wall gives this office major chic credhome projects the hodgepodge craft space got a major glow up that made it way more functional, too. alison goldman mar 2, 2020 before and after: a 119-year-old bedroom gets its groove backhome projects there was a lot of pretty stuff hiding under all that beige paint! alison goldman mar 1, 2020 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc