skip to content prometheus blog by the libertarian futurist society menu and widgets subscribe to blog via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address search for: recent posts an appreciation of charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel prometheus awards celebration series: an appreciation of ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 best novel winner an appreciation of neal stephenson’s the system of the world, the 2005 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of f. paul wilson’s sims, the 2004 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of terry pratchett’s night watch, the 2003 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, the 2002 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders, the 2001 prometheus best novel winner lfscon iii planned for 2020 north american science fiction convention: f. paul wilson announced as columbus nasfic’s prometheus awards guest of honor an appreciation for vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky, the 2000 prometheus winner for best novel an appreciation of john varley’s the golden globe, the 1999 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of ken macleod’s the stone canal, the 1998 prometheus best novel winner rush songwriter-drummer neil peart widely remembered for his libertarian idealism, individualism neil peart has died appreciating victor koman’s kings of the high frontier, the 1997 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of ken macleod’s the star fraction, the 1996 prometheus best novel winner top posts an appreciation of charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel back to the moon: lunar fiction from heinlein to mcdonald, weir and corcoran interview: lfs founder michael grossberg on how he became a writer, critic, sf fan & helped save the prometheus awards prometheus awards celebration series: an appreciation of ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 best novel winner in memoriam jack vance: 1916 — 2013 kickstarter launched for new heinlein novel recent comments william h. stoddard on rush songwriter-drummer neil peart widely remembered for his libertarian idealism, individualism mike on neil peart has died mike grossberg on looking back at prometheus awards history: what happened at the first awards ceremony in 1979 in los angeles – and why it was controversial william h. stoddard on looking back at prometheus awards history: what happened at the first awards ceremony in 1979 in los angeles – and why it was controversial archives archives select month march 2020 (4) february 2020 (4) january 2020 (7) december 2019 (5) november 2019 (4) october 2019 (5) september 2019 (6) august 2019 (5) july 2019 (1) june 2019 (2) april 2019 (4) march 2019 (1) february 2019 (2) january 2019 (2) december 2018 (1) october 2018 (2) september 2018 (2) august 2018 (2) july 2018 (1) june 2018 (3) may 2018 (2) april 2018 (3) march 2018 (3) february 2018 (3) january 2018 (4) december 2017 (2) november 2017 (3) october 2017 (1) september 2017 (2) august 2017 (2) july 2017 (4) june 2017 (5) may 2017 (4) categories appreciations (29) best novels (28) best of the blog (10) essays (13) award standards (3) interviews (2) news (56) author updates (18) awards history (1) awards news (18) obits (10) videos (5) reviews (25) movies (3) selected reviews (9) tributes (16) best of the blog a 40th anniversary retrospective: introducing a reader’s guide to the prometheus award winners interview: lfs founder michael grossberg on how he became a writer, critic, sf fan & helped save the prometheus awards interview: l. neil smith on his work, the prometheus award and his influences tor.com looks at the prometheus award on its 40th anniversary back to the moon: lunar fiction from heinlein to mcdonald, weir and corcoran what do you mean ‘libertarian’? reason magazine on our fight over ‘the dispossessed’ futures in collision: firefly’s divided society in memoriam jack vance: 1916 — 2013 freedom in the future tense: a political history of sf selected reviews 40th anniversary prometheus celebration: an appreciation of f. paul wilson’s wheels within wheels, the first award winner in 1979 back to the moon: lunar fiction from heinlein to mcdonald, weir and corcoran review: avengers: infinity war review: the fractal man by j. neil schulman review: walkaway by cory doctorow review: autonomous by annalee newitz review: arkwright by allen steele review: the core of the sun, by johanna sinisalo review: the mandibles: a family 2029-2047 by lionel shriver meta log in entries rss comments rss wordpress.org about the blog prometheus blog is published by the libertarian futurist society. all opinions expressed on this blog are the opinions of the individual writers and are not necessarily the official positions of the libertarian futurist society or its officers. comments on blog posts are welcome, but we reserve the right to moderate comments and do not welcome spam, personal attacks or unpleasant political polemics. for inquiries about submitting pieces for publication, please write to blog@lfs.org. for information about joining the libertarian futurist society and participating in the prometheus award, have a look around at lfs.org. an appreciation of charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel: charles stross’ 2006 novel explores themes of ubiquitous state surveillance and the struggle of individuals to survive in the face of severe pressure to conform. set in a distant future and taking place in the same universe as stross’ novel accelerando, though at a much later point in its history, glasshouse revolves around un-rehabilitated war criminals using every tool at their disposal to build a society that they can control absolutely at the center of the story, set in the 27th century when interstellar travel is by teleport gate, is robin, an ex-spy who wakes up in a clinic with most memories missing. soon, he realizes that he’s a demobilized soldier from a civil war that’s ended, and that someone is trying to kill him because of something that his earlier self knew. pursued by a dangerous enemy and desperate to find somewhere to hide, the post-human robin volunteers to participate in the glasshouse, an experimental simulation of a pre-accelerated culture in which participants are assigned anonymized identities. continue reading an appreciation of charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel posted on march 24, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags accelerando, charles stross, gender roles, glasshouse, government controls, identity, individual rights, post-human, sexuality, simulations, social conformity, teleport gatesleave a comment on an appreciation of charles stross’ glasshouse, the 2007 prometheus award winner for best novel prometheus awards celebration series: an appreciation of ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 best novel winner to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 prometheus best novel winner: macleod’s inventive first-contact novel explores the politics and uncertainties involved from two perspectives: the natives of the planet and the “alien” (human) visitors. in some ways modeled on classic heinlein juveniles and a departure from his other future-earth-solar-system novels exploring the implications of libertarian and marxist ideas, learning the world offers as a primary viewpoint character a teen girl living on an interstellar colony ship about to enter a new solar system. continue reading prometheus awards celebration series: an appreciation of ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 best novel winner posted on march 17, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags aliens, coercion, cooperation, first contact, future markets, industrializing space, ken macleod, learning the world, libertarian law, slavery, social contract, the star fraction, the stone canalleave a comment on prometheus awards celebration series: an appreciation of ken macleod’s learning the world, the 2006 best novel winner an appreciation of neal stephenson’s the system of the world, the 2005 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for neal stephenson’s the system of the world, the 2005 prometheus best novel winner: by william h. stoddard the development in the late 1600s and early 1700s of the modern world’s classical liberal institutions, which paved the way for modern libertarianism, is explored in neal stephenson’s epic 2004 novel, the climax of the author’s ambitious baroque cycle trilogy (preceded by quicksilver and the confusion), which has been hailed by entertainment weekly as “the definitive historical-sci-fi-epic-pirate-comedy-punk love story.” in the complex, multi-threaded plot of the system of the world, stephenson traces the distant ancestors of many key characters from his earlier novel cryptonomicon through encounters with major figures in the science and politics of the era, among whom sir isaac newton and gottfried leibniz are key figures. in effect, this is a secret history of the origins of experimental natural science, the british monetary system, and the antislavery movement, among other elements of modernity. the baroque cycle – which touches upon the development in the 1700s of such classical-liberal institutions as the rule of law, limited government, due process, civil liberties, free trade, private property, and separation of church and state – can be read as a straightforwardly historical novel drawing on such sources as the french annales school of historiography — if a wildly inventive one that fully lives up to the label “baroque.” continue reading an appreciation of neal stephenson’s the system of the world, the 2005 prometheus best novel winner posted on march 11, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags alchemic gold, civil liberties, classical liberalism, computing engines, cryptonomicon, due process, free trade, libertarianism, neal stephenson, parliamentary government, private property, separation of church and stage, seveneves, sir isaac newton, steam power, the baroque cycle, the rule of law, the system of the worldleave a comment on an appreciation of neal stephenson’s the system of the world, the 2005 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of f. paul wilson’s sims, the 2004 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for f. paul wilson’s sims, the 2004 prometheus best novel winner: paul wilson’s 2003 novel sims, set in a plausible near-future, explores the struggle of the sims, a genetically engineered cross between humans and chimpanzees, for freedom and respect. after impressive advances in genetics research that have made possible the elimination of many genetically transmitted diseases, the simgen corporation has created the transgenic species of sims or humanzees (human-chimp hybrids). continue reading an appreciation of f. paul wilson’s sims, the 2004 prometheus best novel winner posted on march 2, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags an enemy of the state, f. paul wilson, genetics research, human rights, human-chimp hybrids, sims, transgenic speciesleave a comment on an appreciation of f. paul wilson’s sims, the 2004 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of terry pratchett’s night watch, the 2003 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for terry pratchett’s night watch, the 2003 prometheus winner for best novel: night watch, the 29th book in terry pratchett’s bestselling discworld series and widely hailed as one of the best, focuses in his usual tongue-in-cheek style on what it takes to build a more-modern police force that eventually will be able to keep the peace and fight violent crime in one of the most unruly cities in fiction. filled with individualistic, anti-authoritarian and pragmatically libertarian themes that resonate with the actual history of our own planet and how market economies and modern civilization developed, this ingenious 2002 satirical fantasy blends political intrigue and police drama in a plot that also involves time travel back to the start of a legendary street rebellion. continue reading an appreciation of terry pratchett’s night watch, the 2003 prometheus best novel winner posted on february 24, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags ankh-morpork, discworld, night watch, police commander sam vimes, terry pratchettleave a comment on an appreciation of terry pratchett’s night watch, the 2003 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, the 2002 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, the 2002 prometheus winner for best novel: by william h. stoddard and michael grossberg donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, an expansion of the canadian-american sf writer’s 1995 novella “historical crisis,” reimagines and critiques the statist and technocratic assumptions of isaac asimov’s classic foundation series. set in the 761st century, long after the events of that series, as the galactic empire is failing, the clever, complex and suspenseful 2001 novel offers a perceptive and implicitly libertarian critique of asimov’s books, especially their determinism and political centralization. at the center of the vast landscape of the second galactic empire, which has spread to millions of worlds throughout the milky way galaxy but without any nonhuman intelligences except for genetically enhanced talking dogs, is a 30-year-old psychohistorian who committed a crime he can’t remember. continue reading an appreciation of donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, the 2002 prometheus best novel winner posted on february 17, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags civilization, collapse, courtship rite, donald kingsbury, friedrich hayek, ludwig von mises, marx, plato, psychohistorical crisis, the republic, utopialeave a comment on an appreciation of donald kingsbury’s psychohistorical crisis, the 2002 prometheus best novel winner an appreciation of l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders, the 2001 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders, the 2001 prometheus winner for best novel: rollicking adventure, mystery, a sense of humor and explicit libertarian ideology mark l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders. the novel was reworked from two previously published novels contact and commune (retitled first time the charm) and converse and conflict (retitled second to one), and combined with the story’s finale (third among equals), belatedly published a decade later. set in the late 21st century within our solar system and beyond, this fun 2000 novel concerns the culture clash and political differences between the human members of an expedition to asteroid 5023 eris, and the multitude of aliens they find when they arrive. continue reading an appreciation of l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders, the 2001 prometheus best novel winner posted on february 10, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags aliens, asteroids, contact and commune, converse and conflict, eris, l. neil smith, the forge of the elders, third among equalsleave a comment on an appreciation of l. neil smith’s the forge of the elders, the 2001 prometheus best novel winner lfscon iii planned for 2020 north american science fiction convention: f. paul wilson announced as columbus nasfic’s prometheus awards guest of honor the north american science fiction convention will be held aug. 20-23, 2020 in columbus, ohio – and guess who will be among the guests of honor and speaker-panelists? the columbus 2020 nasfic has announced on its facebook page that bestselling sf/fantasy/horror novelist f. paul wilson – the first prometheus award winner and a special prometheus lifetime achievement award recipient – will attend the columbus nasfic as the prometheus awards guest of honor. f. paul wilson. photo courtesy of author wilson’s appearances, talks, panel discussions and author signings will be a centerpiece of the libertarian futurist society’s third lfscon (dubbed lfscon iii), which will run as an informal “mini-con” within the larger north american science fiction convention. several main-program-track panel discussions are being planned, devoted to themes of broad interest to freedom-loving sf/fantasy fans, libertarian futurists and general attendees. the lfs also will present our 2020 prometheus awards ceremony during the nasfic’s biggest single event: it’s saturday-night masquerade. continue reading lfscon iii planned for 2020 north american science fiction convention: f. paul wilson announced as columbus nasfic’s prometheus awards guest of honor posted on february 3, 2020february 3, 2020author mike grossbergcategories author updates, awards news, newstags an enemy of the state, brian herbert, christopher j. garcia, columbus, columbus nasfic 2020, eric flint, f. paul wilson, kevin j. anderson, lfscon, north american science fiction convention, prometheus awards ceremony, stephanie law, wheels within wheels, worldconleave a comment on lfscon iii planned for 2020 north american science fiction convention: f. paul wilson announced as columbus nasfic’s prometheus awards guest of honor an appreciation for vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky, the 2000 prometheus winner for best novel introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky: by william h. stoddard and michael grossberg vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky is an exemplary example of the new space opera of the 1990s, and a fascinating and complex sequel to his hugo-winning novel a fire upon the deep. set in the inner milky way galaxy with fully realized characters, both alien and human, the story highlights the threats to civilization from centralized power while illuminating the civilizing dynamics of free-trade networks. vinge’s epic novel imagines a complex future with many human-inhabited planets that have developed over several thousand years through slower-than-light interstellar travel, terraforming, life-extension techniques, and advanced computer networks. yet many of these advanced societies repeatedly have collapsed into barbarism and decay through the failed dream of collectivism, statism, or subtle computational failures. continue reading an appreciation for vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky, the 2000 prometheus winner for best novel posted on january 29, 2020february 1, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags a deepness in the sky, a fire upon the deep, anarcho-capitalism, bureaucracy, decentralization, interstellar travel, life extension, marooned in real time, mercantile networks, reputation, terraforming, true names, vernor vingeleave a comment on an appreciation for vernor vinge’s a deepness in the sky, the 2000 prometheus winner for best novel an appreciation of john varley’s the golden globe, the 1999 prometheus best novel winner introduction: to highlight the four-decade history of the prometheus awards, which the libertarian futurist society began celebrating in 2019, and to make clear what libertarian futurists saw in each of our past winners that made them deserve recognition as pro-freedom sf/fantasy, we’re continuing in 2020 to present a series of weekly appreciations of prometheus award-winners, starting with our first category for best novel. here’s the latest appreciation for john varley’s the golden globe: a rare picaresque sf comedy among best novel winners, john varley’s the golden globe follows the episodic adventures of a resilient itinerant actor living by his wits and thespian skills in the outer solar system. varley, clearly a fan of shakespeare, updates the bard in his 1998 novel to illustrate the theme that “if all the worlds (are) a stage – not world’s, but plural – then all the men and women in this are merely players… strutting, fretting and conniving through their exits and their entrances. and one man in his time plays many parts….” that everyman man is kenneth “sparky” valentine, the fugitive central character and an interstellar con man, who’s been on the run for decades from planet to planet. successfully evading the state authorities. resourceful and scrappy, sparky survives through con jobs and his high-tech ability to transform his age, his body type/size and his gender by altering skin-deep magnetic implants. continue reading an appreciation of john varley’s the golden globe, the 1999 prometheus best novel winner posted on january 23, 2020january 23, 2020author mike grossbergcategories appreciations, best novelstags as you like it, carley's eight world series, charon, gens de la lune, irontown blues, john varley, king lear, magnetic implants, mars, mercury, picaresque comedy, pluto, punch and judy shows, shakespeare, steel beach, the comedy of errors, the golden globe, the ophiuchi hotline, theater, venusleave a comment on an appreciation of john varley’s the golden globe, the 1999 prometheus best novel winner posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 11 next page proudly powered by wordpress