call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact protection it’s your income that keeps your possessions, family, home and lifestyle safe. when you die, the last thing you would want would be to leave your family facing financial difficulties. that’s why life insurance is so important. however, having a cash sum to pay off the mortgage or provide your family with an income is only half the story. you can also use life insurance for inheritance tax planning and pass on more to your loved ones. it also makes sense to think about what would happen if you suffered a critical illness, such as cancer, heart attack, major organ transplant or had an accident that stopped you working for a while. some of the options i advise on can be written in trust, which means you can make sure more of your money goes to your loved ones – not the taxman. using a trust also makes sure the money goes to your beneficiaries more quickly. some of the products i can advise on are: critical illness cover life assurance income protection business protection if you are unsure how much cover you currently have or your circumstances have changed and you need to review your cover then please do not hesitate to contact me. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.