skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search psd templates free mockups for hoodies, t-shirts, mugs, bottles, billboards, books and even websites. we mainly focus on psd and ai mockups but other files formats are available too such as sketch. home » psd templates 20 unique branding mockups collection 2020 march 18, 2020 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments branding is one of the most important aspects of a successful business. it is the first impression you give to your audience. a good approach to branding can make you stand out among your competition. your brand is a direct… read more→ 20 best newspaper mockups for advertisements february 21, 2020 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments can newspapers be considered as effective media for advertising other than providing news and information? of course, it can. advertising in newspapers helps a brand create its recognition, run a marketing campaign, introduce any new product or service and encourage… read more→ top 20 pillow psd mockups you must have a look in 2020 february 11, 2020 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments other than offering support and comfort, pillows can add an aesthetic touch to a room. when it comes to interior design for a house, many bedrooms are accented with the addition of colorful pillows. with pillows, you can add comfort… read more→ top 20 subway advertisement psd mockups for 2020 january 19, 2020 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments outdoor advertising is one of the most effective and efficient ways to drive the attention of the audience with an immediate visual impact. and subway advertising is one such effective outdoor advertising. with big, bold and colorful advertisements on billboards… read more→ how to make people feel appreciated with 28 attention-grabbing certificate templates january 13, 2020 lana miro psd templates 0 comments “the deepest principle in human nature is the craving to be appreciated.” many people will agree with this william jame’s argument. however, few are aware of how to show their appreciation. at any stage of human life – from early… read more→ upgrading brand identity in a painless way checklist 2020 december 23, 2019 lana miro psd templates 0 comments these days business campaigns are everywhere. you see numerous products or services promos. it happens all the time and you are most likely not noticing some of them. and it only means that someone was a bit lazy when working… read more→ why social media templates are must-have for a winning instagram marketing campaign? december 18, 2019 lana miro psd templates 0 comments no secret, these days people use social media for many purposes. the times when we came to sm platforms only to chat with mates are far away now. you use sm to do shopping, read different reviews, search for services,… read more→ top 21 templates for professional resumes and portfolios december 17, 2019 lana miro psd templates 0 comments are you looking to create a stunning resume for yourself? then this article is for you. in it, i have collected the best resume templates for you to easily create your own professional portfolio with. writing your resume from complete… read more→ 20 best menu mockups for restaurant branding december 4, 2019 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments are you into the restaurant business? or do you work for a client who is in this business? if yes is the answer to any of these two questions, then here is a collection of 20 best menu mockups that… read more→ 50+ best free iphone mockup templates – iphone 11, 11 pro max, xs max [psd] 2019 november 28, 2019 colorlib mockups, psd templates 21 comments web designers and creatives, whoever needs iphone mockup templates of the new iphone 11, 11pro, 11 pro max, x, and xs max and other versions, should look no further. instead, of creating your own, save the time and pick one… read more→ 10+ premium psd templates for any type of non-profit, personal, corporate website november 15, 2019 julia starlark psd templates 0 comments if you’re thinking about getting psd templates, chances are you’re about to customize and convert them into a working website. the list of 10 premium psd templates below doesn’t limit your possibilities. instead, every psd template comes with a variety… read more→ 20 banner psd mockups for fantastic banner advertising november 15, 2019 colorlibteam mockups, psd templates 0 comments banner advertising offers various benefits to all types of businesses. be it announcing a new product or a service or building a brand through visual advertisement place to place, banner advertising is the most cost-effective option that can help you… read more→ top 30+ magazine psd mockup templates in 2019 november 13, 2019 alex ivanovs psd templates 6 comments with the internet and mobile access to the web, the majority of the population prefer to read news and feature articles online for free. venturing into print magazines is, therefore, becoming more challenging than ever. the process of going from… read more→ best free resume templates in psd and ai in 2019 october 22, 2019 alex ivanovs psd templates 8 comments writing a resume can be a daunting task unless you use a template to make one. below are free resume templates and a few premium ones as well. from the moment we begin the process of creating a resume, it… read more→ 27 best free ipad psd mockup templates 2019 september 4, 2019 rokr psd templates 0 comments to showcase a website, an app, or any kind of web design in action, free ipad psd mockup templates are a perfect way to do it. not only will the end product look even more professional, but a mockup is… read more→ 35 free poster mockups for successful design showcase 2019 september 4, 2019 rokr inspiration, psd templates 0 comments with poster mockups, you can have a clearer idea of how your marketing material will look in real-time. and with this collection of the best free poster designs, you can immediately see your creations in action before you go and… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×