welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog completing her education completely online: meet mikella published on: jul 31, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 3768 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we sat down with mikella, a young student from the island of st. lucia. mikella found edx after leaving high school when she was 15, and has been completing her schooling entirely on edx. what program/courses did you take on edx, and what were your goals in taking it? i have completed 16 courses on edx including the majority of the harvardx data science professional... read more about completing her education completely online: meet mikella congratulations to the 2018 edx prize winners! published on: nov 16, 2018 by anant agarwal 3647 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are pleased to announce that university of queensland professors blake mckimmie, barbara masser and mark horswill have been named the winners of the 2018 edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize is an annual award to celebrate the contributions and innovations of mooc teachers in the edx community. i was honored to present the award in person to... read more about congratulations to the 2018 edx prize winners! 3 ways to beat performance anxiety published on: oct 26, 2017 by noa kageyama 5061 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post whether it’s a piano recital, crucial free throw, or sales presentation, we’ve all experienced moments where the butterflies in our stomach swarm, our heart pounds furiously, our thoughts begin to race, and we “choke” under the pressure of the situation. not even elite athletes and musicians are immune to nerves, yet some folks seem to thrive under the bright lights and perform their best when... read more about 3 ways to beat performance anxiety how to succeed with psychology – 5 tips from the experts published on: jun 09, 2017 by blake mckimmie 4714 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post every day we live and work with other people, interacting with them to achieve our goals. you might be at work, and need a colleague to help you with a project. maybe you want to ask your boss for a raise. or maybe you are at home and want someone in your family to do something for you. how can you maximise your chances of... read more about how to succeed with psychology – 5 tips from the experts 12 courses learners love published on: feb 14, 2017 by sara reich 8466 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post celebrate your love for learning today, we celebrate love of all types, including the love of learning. hearing from our learners inspires us everyday, especially when they share their favorite courses. check out these 12 courses learners love. 1. the science of happiness – ucberkeleyx (self-paced) learner rating: 4.5/5 2. world of wine: from grape to glass – adelaidex (self-paced) learner rating:... read more about 12 courses learners love psychology, engineering and economics. courses starting soon on edx! published on: feb 19, 2016 by monil shah 6326 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn how space missions are designed from a former astronaut, the threat the internet poses to our security and privacy or gain insights into the social networks we use everyday. edx offers courses from the world’s top universities to help you gain the skills and knowledge you desire. find the course for you and enroll today. happy learning! technology in mental healthcare published on: nov 03, 2015 by tom van daele 5820 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post kuleuvenx trends in e-psychology starts on november 17. enroll today! i was probably about six years old when i got my hands on the very first home computer that my parents bought. it was a top-of-the-line model with an integrated screen, a floppy disk reader and a whole lot of ram… like 4 megabytes. it proved to be a wonderful piece of technology, which was... read more about technology in mental healthcare explore the psychology of criminal justice published on: aug 18, 2015 by rachel lapal 4356 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2014, the award wining podcast ‘serial’ became a cultural phenomenon through its detailed reexamination of the investigation and conviction of adnan syed for the murder of hae min lee. over 90 million people heard about the twists and turns and possible flaws in the case. it reinvigorated an interest in police work and the intricacies of criminal law. but, how do we know when the criminal justice... read more about explore the psychology of criminal justice crime101x crime drama illustrates realistic use of psychology in criminal justice published on: oct 17, 2014 by michele palmer 2800 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when we think about psychology and the criminal justice system, our minds are automatically drawn to those characters in crime dramas that have provided magical, if not somewhat mystical, insights into the offender. from robbie coltrane’s ‘cracker’ in the 1990s through to dr. cal lightman in the more recent fox network’s ‘lie to me’, the promise of psychology in determining whodunit seems infinite. but... read more about crime101x crime drama illustrates realistic use of psychology in criminal justice search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close