menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies psychopathology psychopathology prison brides: ‘hybristophilia’ and women who fall in love with really bad boys jim goad the unedited truth about thalassophobia: fear of deep, dark water jerome london obsessive-compulsive disorder: the mind on replay shahida arabi histrionic personality disorder: drama, seduction and an insatiable desire for attention shahida arabi ptsd and complex ptsd: what happens when you’ve lived in a psychological war zone shahida arabi what avoidant personality disorder really is, and what to know if you think you have it shahida arabi 10 things you discover about yourself when you’re diagnosed with borderline personality disorder carrie-lynne davis latest psychopathology articles coulrophobia: fear of clowns jerome london “ “coulrophobia” is an irrational fear of clowns. then again, there have actually been killer clowns who’ve murdered people, so how irrational is this fear? 5 signs you have white knight syndrome: playing the rescuer in your relationships shahida arabi “ do you find yourself playing the “rescuer” in all of your relationships? you may be suffering from what some psychologists call “white knight syndrome.” what is an adjustment disorder? how to tell if you clinically overreact to change, stress or fear brianna wiest “ adjustment disorders can feel scary, but they are manageable at the very least, and curable at best. what dialectical behavior therapy is and how it can save your life shahida arabi “ dbt is an evidence-based treatment proven by research to be effective for those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder, substance abuse problems, eating disorders, borderline personality disorder and depression. prison brides: ‘hybristophilia’ and women who fall in love with really bad boys jim goad “ the day he entered san quentin for murdering his wife and son, scott peterson received three dozen phone calls from female admirers and a marriage proposal from an 18-year-old girl. the question is—why? the unedited truth about thalassophobia: fear of deep, dark water jerome london “ does this picture scare the hell out of you? obsessive-compulsive disorder: the mind on replay shahida arabi “ those with ocd may be very well aware that their compulsions and obsessions are irrational, but that does not make them less prone to engaging in rituals to ward off the obsessive thoughts and impulses they may have. histrionic personality disorder: drama, seduction and an insatiable desire for attention shahida arabi “ have you ever met someone who seemed to be highly emotional, theatrical, dramatic, obsessed with their appearance and overly seductive in their interactions with others? someone who always needed to be the center of attention? you may have encountered someone with histrionic personality disorder. ptsd and complex ptsd: what happens when you’ve lived in a psychological war zone shahida arabi “ ptsd and complex ptsd aren’t just reserved for war veterans. those who suffer psychological war zones in the form of abuse and assault can be just as susceptible to their symptoms. what avoidant personality disorder really is, and what to know if you think you have it shahida arabi “ avoidance of social interactions and intimate relationships. excessive feelings of low self-esteem, shame and inadequacy. withdrawal from situations where one is likely to be criticized. hypersensitivity to rejection. these are just some of the traits of avoidant personality disorder. but it goes beyond just anxiety or shyness. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.