skip to nav skip to main skip to footer support explore punchdrunk about what we do people royal borough of greenwich work with us shop resources work all projects schools community family shows shows research and development partnerships other work get involved ways to get involved masterclasses teacher masterclasses schools workshops support support us become a keyholder make a donation the case for support leaving a legacy gift membership our supporters other ways to support the lost lending library punchdrunk’s flagship literacy project for primary schools. temple studios, london | uk • july 2013 – july 2014 have you ever seen nature inside out? when the sun stands at midday and it’s as if the world was going up in flames? step into the world of temple pictures where the hollywood studio system meets a forgotten hinterland filled with dreamers who exist at the fringes of the movie industry. here, celluloid fantasy clings to desperate realism and certainty dissolves into a hallucinatory world. a huge cult hit that will be talked about for years to come. ★★★★★ – the daily telegraph searching for stories a project created for six primary schools as part of the enrichment programme for the drowned man. the drowned man book the limited edition book with photography by julian abrams is available from our shop. creative team directors felix barrett & maxine doyle choreographer maxine doyle designers felix barrett, livi vaughan, beatrice minns lighting designer mike gunning sound design & composition stephen dobbie gallery 0 punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photography by brinkhoff_mögenburg. punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photograph by julian abrams punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photography by brinkhoff_mögenburg. punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photo by brinkhoff/mögenburg punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photo by brinkhoff/mögenburg punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photo by brinkhoff/mögenburg punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photography by brinkhoff_mögenburg. photo by brinkhoff/mögenburg punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photograph by brinkhoff_mögenburg punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photography by brinkhoff_mögenburg. punchdrunk’s the drowned man. photography by brinkhoff_mögenburg. prev next reviews thrilling. the possibilities for discovery are endless. ★★★★★ – the financial times a gigantic, mind-altering labyrinth. brilliant. ★★★★ – metro a huge cult hit that will be talked about for years to come. ★★★★★ – the daily telegraph show more … mon - fri 10:00am - 6:00pm punchdrunk, cannon factory, ashley rd, london n17 9lh [email protected] | +44 (0)20 7655 0940 a company limited by guarantee. no. 4547069 a registered charity no. 113741. pr terms cookies privacy policy arrow right circle arrow check circle old key lock keyholder key newsletter sign up here to stay up to date with punchdrunk by joining our mailing list. or to be the first to know about our projects, join our keyholder membership scheme name * email * address * country * school / organisation my child experienced my child experienced the lost lending library in the royal borough of greenwich i want to hear about punchdrunk productions projects for schools projects for communities talks and workshops work experience and volunteering all punchdrunk news