menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies puns puns 16 silly squid puns that are inkredible january nelson 55 dumb puns that are so stupid they are actually funny january nelson 50 frog puns that will make you much hoppier january nelson 50 food puns to dish out when you’re hungry for laughs maria monrovia 50+ flower puns that will make you laugh once and floral erin cossetta 50+ christmas puns yule laugh out loud to erin cossetta 50 water puns that will have you swimming in happy tears january nelson latest puns articles 50 hilarious dad jokes your friends are going to hate you for making january nelson “ i haven’t been to the gym in so long i’ve gone back to calling it james. 25+ golf puns you will never fore get january nelson “ why did the golfer need new socks? because there was a hole in one. 25 ghost puns that are so bad, you’ll be saying ‘boo’—just like a ghost! jerome london “ a ghost crashed a halloween party and said, “i’m here for the boos!” 16 avocado puns that are pit-ifully bad jerome london “ if you’ve hit guac bottom, these puns are avocado this world. 20 taco puns that’ll give you a bad queso the giggles jerome london “ “i hate tacos,” said no juan ever. 33 dinosaur puns that are dino-mite jerome london “ everyone knows a slutty brontosaurus is called a “dino-whore.” 47 goat puns that aren’t so baaaaaaaad (if you’ve goat the time) jerome london “ don’t worry—we goat this. 40 car puns that will fuel your laughter january nelson “ i couldn’t work out how to fasten my seatbelt. then it clicked. 10 marriage puns that are bound to get a good reception maria monrovia “ why did the bride change her last name? because it had a nice ring to it. 10 bible puns that will make you say ‘holy’! maria monrovia “ how does moses make his coffee? hebrews it. instagram poet’s “3-step book” to conquer trauma depression is real. anxiety is real. ptsd is real. all mental illnesses are real. don’t believe anyone who is trying to tell you otherwise. every time i’m stressed i distract myself with doing something nice for someone else and it’s the best thing on this planet to watch someone’s eyes light up because they weren’t expecting something nice to happen. click here to learn about nikita more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.