home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag pussycat dolls 38 posts have a read the briefing new music friday: dagny gives it the full "hey!" treatment when will dagny stop being amazing. have a read the briefing remembering the worst music format of all time anyone for a ringtone? anyone? have a read the news the pussycat dolls have re-formed (again) with new members the pussycat dolls are back in the studio, presumably working on some new music. none of the original line-up are involved so we're not really sure why they're called the… have a read the briefing a newsdump for 30 january 2012: from ke$ha getting sleazier to redfoo wearing a toy zebra the wait is finally over: ke$ha’s 'sleazy remix 2.0' now has a video, although she’s not actually in it. (youtube) it's basically a load of old rubbish. christina aguilera gave… have a read the news the new pussycat dolls ad has appeared online the all-new line up of the pussycat dolls will be officially introduced to the world during a super bowl ‘commercial’ which has appeared online ahead of its february 6 tv… have a read the briefing a newsdump for 24 november 2011: from jessie j's top-selling sound to britney spears getting around jessie j’s 'who you are' is the uk chart’s biggest selling debut album of 2011 so far. (the official charts) matt cardle’s 'letters' is currently aiming to overtake hugh laurie’s… have a read the briefing a newsdump fo 22 november 2011: from perry as a show's star to the wanted's support for cocozza katy perry will be hosting saturday night live on december 10. (hollywood reporter) tragically she will be leaving the singing duties to robyn, who will also be appearing on the… have a read the briefing a newsdump for 8 september 2011: from tulisa's clubcard woes to kelly rowland's shower time show » unbelievably, tulisa doesn't have a tesco clubcard. (twitter) » following lady gaga's lead and dressing up like someone from the opposite sex can boost your career. (international business times) » despite slipping… have a read the briefing the newsdump, feb 25 2010: from leona's tat to a pussycat spat hold onto your hats: » leona lewis has had a poem about horses tattooed down her back. (the sun) it includes the line "to ride a horse is to ride… have a read the briefing advance warning of impending, well-calculated tabloid outrage if you're a fan of ke$ha's 'look at me i'm drunk lol' schtick you might find californian three-piece millionaires — launching next year in the uk, having signed a deal… welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits kloe interview: "i wanted the video to feel powerful — i don’t want to be a whiny victim" marina & the diamonds interview: "everyone’s vapid to a degree" calvin harris interview: "i don’t work on anyone else’s songs any more. i’ve had enough of all that" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled