home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one market your writing promotion by sneh choudhary editor note: at the start of the new year, i thought it would be a good idea to kick off with a tech article. because, like it or not, technology will play a larger and larger part in all our lives, whether we are writers, bloggers or freelancers. and qr code has been around a long time, but is rarely utilised by the online creative. check out the article below and see if qr code could benefit you in 2020. with the advent of technology, people’s attention span has decreased significantly. according to a study by microsoft canada, the average attention span of an ordinary human being today is only eight seconds. scrolling indefinitely on our social media apps and pausing to read a few exciting article titles is probably all the reading most people do in a day. almost all books today are available in the as ebooks, paperback books being too slow to order, and read. plus, reading on a kindle is convenient since you can take your entire library with you wherever you go. but take heart, that isn’t the end of books. a majority of bibliophiles still like to read a physical book. and to connect the online and the offline world, you can always use a qr code. using an online qr code generator, you can create qr codes to help you connect to your readers online and make their reading experience much more enjoyable. what can qr codes do for your book? keep your readers engaged by adding video and image qr codes. add qr codes to show your readers additional materials through videos, images, or even audio clips. for example, if you’re writing a cookbook, adding qr codes to redirect your readers to how-to videos will help them understand the process easier and faster. this works even if you’re an author of a school textbook. add a video qr code along with the text to explain a complex concept or also show additional images to the reader. using video qr code with young students is especially useful. educator nadine gilkison did this with storybooks. to make storytelling more interactive and fun, she created cards with unique qr codes, which, when scanned, displayed the respective video book on the device. the card has a colorful image of the storybook and, next to it, a unique code. when scanned using a smartphone or a tablet, the students is redirected to a video book on storyline online, where celebrities read children’s stories. these cards can be used in the classroom or even sent home. language doesn’t have to be barrier: use multi-lingual qr codes so that people have the option of reading your book in other languages. this way, you’ll reach a broader audience. the code will redirect the readers to a different version of your book that is in the same language as the device’s native setting. find out what readers feel about your book let your readers give you feedback as they’re reading your book. this way, you can not only get overall feedback about your book but, even, say, chapter by chapter. include a code at the end of the book or after every chapter to redirect your readers to a review page. to keep your readers engaged post-reading a. keep your readers in the loop: include a dynamic qr code so that your readers can learn about any updates on your new book, book club meetup, etc. this will help you make sure that your readers are still connected with you even after they’ve finished reading the book. b. lead readers to your social media profile or website to increase traffic: print a qr code at the back of your book linking your social media profiles or website so your readers can follow you. this way, you can also then interact with your readers, further increasing engagement. this will also make sure that there’s some traffic coming to your website. how to create qr code for your book you can easily create a code using a qr code generator. here are some tips when you choose a code generator check the reviews find out what other users are saying about the code generator. if you positive reviews, you can definitely go ahead, but a series of negative reviews is undoubtedly a red flag. find out if it’s easy to use you don’t want to be stuck with an outdated qr code generator. the code that you choose should be easy to use, letting you quickly create a qr code. the website should offer you a smooth interface and give proper instructions on how to use it. check if they have reliable customer support make sure the qr code generator you choose has reliable customer support in case you have a problem with your code campaign later. you can check this by calling the customer care number or email provided on the website and contact them to understand how responsive the customer support team is. ask to schedule a demo this way, you can check all the features they have to offer and get to know how to use the qr code generator as well. compare the prices and features with other code generators: once you’ve shortlisted qr code generators see which one has the best features and an appropriate subscription plan. most qr code generators offer yearly subscription plans that might not be the most cost-effective. search for a code generator that offers monthly subscription plans as you will only run a particular qr code campaign for a couple of months depending on the occasion. customize your qr code having a customized qr code will attract your readers and motivate them to scan it. here’s how you can customize your code. templates: you can choose a different template for your code. qr code generators have pre-designed templates so you can quickly pick one that you like most. the eyes: the three prominent squares on the corners of the frame are the eyes of the qr codes. you can change the color of the eye by selecting a color of your choice or entering the hex code. by choosing colors specific to your brand, you can reinforce your branding through the look of your code. logo: add your brand logo to the qr code. this will appear at the center of your code. pattern: the pattern of the code holds the actual data. you can change the pattern and its color to make it suit your brand. most code generators have pre-designed patterns for you to choose from. background: you can even add a background color or a background image to your qr code. but make sure the colors of the background and the pattern don’t clash; otherwise, the qr scanners may not be able to read the pattern. make sure that the code is at least 40% darker than the background. frame: there are pre-designed frames available for you to choose from. add a frame with a cta to encourage readers to scan your code. test your qr code and make sure it works until its intended period before you print and distribute your qr code, make sure you test it several times using different os devices. ask your inner circle first to scan the code on their respective smartphones. this should help you figure out if your code is working. also, make sure that you pay your subscription fee on time so that your code doesn’t stop working. have you had experience with qr code and books? let me know. tweet pin share related posts how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? by laura tong seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) by kylie ora lobell about the author sneh choudhary sneh is an experienced content marketer who loves to share her knowledge of the latest technology to help writers, bloggers and freelancers online. find out more about what qr codes can do for you here. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! your brand is calling how to launch an author brand that feels right get 50% off the course today create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >