u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition queer voices queer eye transgender issues rupaul’s drag race coming out conversion therapy in 'more,' indie pop singer kris kelly wrestles with 7 deadly sins personified the video, from the 2019 album "runaways," is about those who escape themselves "through drugs, alcohol, boys [and] sex,” he said. by curtis m. wong amid covid-19 spread, influential d.c. pastor says 'god's wrath' caused by lgbtq people ralph drollinger, who leads a bible study for trump's cabinet members, claims homosexuality, environmentalism and atheism are signs of god's wrath. by carol kuruvilla pink uses quarantine time to give herself a haircut after drinking the pop superstar jokingly compared herself with alyssa milano and charlize theron after revealing a fresh, if amateur-looking, buzz cut. by curtis m. wong trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad jussie smollett marks 'quarantine day 421' with cryptic instagram video the former "empire" star sang a stevie wonder hit while alluding to the date he claimed to have been attacked in a racist and anti-lgbtq hate crime. by curtis m. wong kathy griffin home with abdominal infection after er coronavirus scare [update] while hospitalized, the comedian said she was being denied a covid-19 test and called out donald trump for "lying." by ron dicker newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. justice department supports blocking transgender athletes from women's sports attorney general william barr sounded off on a lawsuit filed on behalf of three connecticut teens who say they've been forced to compete against trans rivals. by pat eaton-robb, ap chrissy teigen's social distancing while crowdsourcing for lettuce was perfect the "lip sync battle" host's banana bread swap with comedian chris klemens adhered to coronavirus pandemic protocol. by curtis m. wong domestic abuse victims need more help as coronavirus spreads, senators say two dozen senators urged the trump administration to not forget domestic violence survivors as the government addresses the pandemic. by alanna vagianos andy cohen says 'very worst part' of having coronavirus isn't even the symptoms the "watch what happens live" host is missing his 1-year-old since testing positive for covid-19. by cole delbyck how quarantine culture is blurring online dating and reality tv as more people are stuck at home and reality shows pause production, the search for love continues via our screens — and instagram feeds. by leigh blickley and emma gray former nba player jason collins tests positive for coronavirus collins, who in 2013 was the first openly gay athlete in a major american professional sports league, believes he caught covid-19 during a nyc trip. by reuters award-winning playwright terrence mcnally dies from complications due to coronavirus the tony award winner lost his life at age 81 to complications linked to covid-19. by sarah ruiz-grossman lady gaga postpones 'chromatica' album release amidst coronavirus concerns the 11-time grammy winner promised the follow-up to 2016's "joanne" would be a "most bombastic celebration," but didn't specify a new date. by curtis m. wong taylor swift hasn't responded to kim kardashian, but her best friend just went in with the two megastars feuding again, swift pal todrick hall tried to shame kardashian over her infamous sex tape. by cole delbyck soap star greg rikaart calls coronavirus 'the hardest experience' the actor said he had "difficulty breathing" and fever for 11 days in isolation from his family. by ron dicker lgbtq homeless fear violence, illness as coronavirus shuts shelters advocates say the closures will have a devastating impact on the queer community's most vulnerable members. by matthew lavietes, reuters michelle obama fills in ellen degeneres on her family's self-isolation routine the obamas are watching netflix and appreciating family time. by josephine harvey with disney parks closed, fans are re-creating their favorite rides at home a self-isolating utah family staged an epic pirates of the caribbean, while others paid tribute to the haunted mansion and star wars land. by curtis m. wong dua lipa to release new album early: 'i hope it makes you dance' the british singer's sophomore effort "future nostalgia" was scheduled to drop in april. by cole delbyck patti lupone's basement tour is the quarantine content we all need appearing on rosie o'donnell's comeback special, the broadway icon revealed treasures from her "evita" and "life goes on" days while dancing in her sweats. by curtis m. wong newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.