about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ quick chana masala 224 comments jump to recipe chana masala is one of my favorite menu items at indian restaurants. it’s a hearty, saucy chickpea and tomato dish with warming spices. i bet you have the ingredients to make this easy homemade version in your pantry already! i shared this recipe back in 2014, and wanted to revisit it as we’re all spending more time at home. i thoroughly enjoyed the fragrant 20 minutes i spent over the stove for this recipe. to make this chana masala, you’ll need onion, ginger, garlic, and several good-for-you spices, including coriander, cumin, and turmeric. garam masala is the traditional spice blend for chana masala, but if you don’t have that on hand, you’ll find alternatives below. i’d like to start cooking indian recipes more often. which one would you like to see next? for more pantry-friendly recipes, check my healthy pantry recipes roundup. authentic chana masala vs. this quick & easy method i was happy when i found a recipe for quick and easy chana masala in the pages of angela liddon’s cookbook, the oh she glows cookbook (affiliate link). i’ve modified angela’s ingredients and cooking method a bit. let me be the first to point out that this recipe is somewhat unconventional! authentic chana masala is typically made with whole spices, plus some dried mango powder (amchur). this recipe makes use of ground spices, which we’ll cook in some oil to bring out their best. instead of dried mango powder, we’ll garnish the dish with a wedge of lemon for tart flavor. canned tomato options i love using crushed fire-roasted tomatoes in this recipe, which offer a shortcut to rich, long-simmered flavor. if you don’t have them, don’t worry. you can also use canned whole tomatoes (with their juices), and crush them against the side of the pot with a sturdy spoon as they simmer. or substitute diced tomatoes, which will produce a more chunky result (you could blitz them a few times in a food processor or blender beforehand, to achieve crushed tomatoes). spice options garam masala is traditionally used in chana masalas. garam masala roughly translates to “hot spice mix” in english. it’s made from a blend of coriander, cumin, cardamom (green and black), cinnamon, black pepper, cloves, and other spices that vary by region and preference. no two masalas are exactly alike. if you don’t have garam masala and don’t want to make another trip to the store, here are a few unconventional options. i know for certain that tikka masala is nice (tikka masala has brighter notes of chili powder and paprika). or, you could use a teaspoon of yellow curry powder—it won’t taste the same, but it will be good! if you don’t have either of those, you could likely just omit the spice blend, and add a pinch of ground clove and cardamom to the pot if you have them. craving more indian recipes? i’m working on my expanding my collection, but here are a few recipes that are inspired by indian cuisine. quick dal makhani masala lentil salad with cumin roasted carrots turmeric-spiced whole roasted cauliflower roasted cauliflower: see the indian-inspired version. please let me know how this recipe turns out in the comments. print quick chana masala author: cookie and kate prep time: 15 mins cook time: 20 mins total time: 35 minutes yield: 4 servings 1x category: main method: cooked cuisine: indian diet: vegan ★★★★★ 4.8 from 73 reviews quick and easy chana masala recipe served over basmati rice. this spicy, hearty, chickpea-based indian dish is vegan and gluten free. it makes great leftovers, too! be sure to prep the ingredients in advance, as the recipe moves quickly. recipe yields 4 bowls. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 1 cup uncooked brown basmati rice, for serving (rice is optional, i like to cook extra to have on hand for other meals) 2 tablespoons coconut oil or extra-virgin olive oil 1 medium yellow onion, chopped 1 medium serrano or jalapeño pepper*, minced (remove ribs and seeds to tame the spice level) ½ teaspoon fine sea salt, to taste 5 cloves garlic, pressed or minced (about 1 tablespoon) 1 tablespoon peeled and minced fresh ginger (about a 1-inch piece) 1 ½ teaspoons garam masala** 1 ½ teaspoons ground coriander ¾ teaspoon ground cumin ½ teaspoon ground turmeric pinch of cayenne pepper (optional!*) 1 large can (28 ounces) fire-roasted crushed tomatoes or whole peeled tomatoes, with their juices 2 cans (14 ounces each) chickpeas (or 3 cups cooked chickpeas), rinsed and drained lemon wedges, for garnish fresh cilantro, for garnish (optional) instructions cook the rice (if you want to serve the chana masala on rice): bring a large pot of water to boil on the stove and rinse the rice in a fine-mesh colander. once boiling, pour in the rice and give it a stir. boil the rice for 30 minutes, then turn off the heat and drain the rice. return the rice to the pot and cover the pot. let the rice steam for 10 minutes. remove the lid, fluff the rice with a fork and season with sea salt to taste. cook the chana masala: in a medium dutch oven or large saucepan, warm the oil over medium-low heat. add the onion, serrano and salt. cook until the onion is tender and turning translucent, about 5 minutes. add the garlic and ginger, and cook until fragrant, about 30 seconds to 1 minute. stir in the garam masala, coriander, cumin, turmeric, salt and cayenne (if using), and cook for another minute, while stirring constantly. add the tomatoes and their juices. if using whole tomatoes, use the back of a wooden spoon to break the tomatoes apart (you can leave some chunks of tomato for texture). raise the heat to medium-high and add the chickpeas. bring the mixture to a simmer. cook, reducing the heat as necessary to maintain a gentle simmer, for 10 minutes or longer to allow the flavors to develop. season to taste with additional salt, if desired. if it’s not spicy enough for your liking, add another pinch of cayenne. serve over basmati rice, if desired, and garnish with a lemon wedge or two and a sprinkle of fresh cilantro leaves. notes recipe adapted with permission from the oh she glows cookbook by angela liddon. *tame the heat: while chana masala is inherently full of spice, the serrano (or jalapeño) and cayenne pepper are what bring the heat. if you’re sensitive, reduce or omit them both. you can always stir in a pinch of cayenne pepper at the end of cooking if you want more. **spice blend note: garam masala is traditional. if you don’t have it and want to get by without making another trip to the store, you could use tikka masala instead, or perhaps even 1 teaspoon yellow curry powder. don’t have any of those? i suspect this dish would be nicely flavorful with an added pinch of clove and cardamom, or even nothing at all. storage suggestions: this recipe makes for great leftovers! store the rice, chana masala and garnishes separately for best results. warm the rice and chana masala together, then garnish with fresh lemon wedges and cilantro. leftovers should keep well for up to 5 days. i believe you could also successfully freeze the chana masala and rice components for later. change it up: though untraditional, i think this would taste great with a generous splash of coconut milk for some creaminess (it would also mellow the spices somewhat). update 3/18/20: the recipe originally called for cumin seeds (1 ½ teaspoons) instead of ground cumin. i made the switch because ground cumin is easier to find. the recipe called for cooking the cumin seeds in the oil before adding the onion, etc. (cook for a minute or two, stirring frequently, until the seeds are golden and fragrant. watch carefully to avoid burning the seeds.) ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes vegetable paella indian spiced chickpeas west african peanut soup share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories dairy free, easy weeknight dinners, egg free, fall, gluten free, indian, main dishes, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soy free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients brown rice, chickpeas ↢ newer 20 diy pantry recipes (make your own marinara sauce & more) older ↣ 50 pantry-friendly recipes & substitutions that work by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) karen july 4, 2018 absolutely a winner – great for a week night meal – very tasty kare ★★★★★ reply kate july 9, 2018 thank you, karen! reply logan september 5, 2018 hey! i made this and love it. just on route question. i thought it was slightly too tomato-saucy. any suggestions on what to chance ramp up on to down the tomato taste?? ★★★★★ reply kate september 7, 2018 hmmm that is interesting! you could try adding a little more of your favorite spice or flavor of the soup. hope this helps! reply ashna june 14, 2019 i would use half a can of tomatoes. that way you still get the tangy taste and it won’t strangle the spices. normally when i cook it, i use 1-2 ripe roma tomatoes with 2 cans of channa. :) reply df september 24, 2018 delicious and easy! i made it into a chana/gobi masala by adding cauliflower. i wanted more veggies but wanted a one-bowl meal too. reply kate september 27, 2018 thanks for sharing! reply joan october 7, 2018 do you worry about phytic acid in canned beans? reply kate october 24, 2018 hi joan, i don’t! i have read that cooking gets rid of phytic acid, and canned beans are cooked beans so that shouldn’t be a problem. reply jorie october 27, 2018 i just made this for my vegan sweetie and i and we both loved it. added some veggie broth as it cooked to keep it from drying out as it simmered and we added a few scoops of chana masala powder. ★★★★★ reply kate october 29, 2018 thank you for sharing your approach, jorie. i appreciate the review! reply drona november 27, 2018 hello, love the recipe but please change the basmatirice boiling to 20 mins. i boiled for 30 mins and it is just mush! ★★★ reply kate november 29, 2018 i’m sorry the timing didn’t work out! i didn’t have that experience when i tested this several times. but, thanks for sharing your experience! reply faiza december 3, 2018 sounds like something cookie would say? * wink wink * pls take with a pinch of salt n masala…! reply kate december 5, 2018 :) reply naz december 28, 2018 it tasted really good!thank you for the wonderful recipe ★★★★★ reply kate december 28, 2018 i’m happy you enjoyed it, naz. thanks for your review! reply lennon susan march 18, 2019 delicious….made it on saturday. making it again tonight….(monday!) ★★★★★ reply kate march 19, 2019 you do really like it! that’s great. thanks for the review, lennon. reply bee april 24, 2019 loving all the spices! i bet this makes your home smell amazing!! ★★★★★ reply kate april 25, 2019 it does! let me know if you try it, bee. reply paige june 10, 2019 excellent, could eat this everyday and never tired of it. ★★★★★ reply kate june 10, 2019 wonderful, paige! reply ashna june 14, 2019 thank you for sharing this recipe! my gf loves indian food and i just forwarded her the link to try it on her own. reply kate june 17, 2019 thank you, ashna! reply lynn august 12, 2019 too tomatoey, and the spice overtook the other flavours. timing was off. not ideal if used to traditional chana masala. ★★ reply kate august 12, 2019 i’m sorry you didn’t love this one, lynn. thank you for your feedback! reply sophie november 17, 2019 i made this recipe this week. loved it. it was easy to make. loved all the flavours. i will definitely be making this recipe again. thank you. ★★★★★ reply kate november 18, 2019 you’re welcome! reply anne november 24, 2019 thank you for the wonderful recipe! i have made this several times (and it makes a lot for one person, so i always freeze some and it freezes beautifully). i usually cook it a bit longer in order to cook some of the water off so that it’s thicker. so great for the cooler weather! ★★★★★ reply stephanie december 4, 2019 you’ve done it again! this is the third recipe of yours i’ve tried and it was a hit at home. i used tikka masala instead of garam masala (just because i’ve been using garam masala a lot lately and wanted to try different flavors) added cayenne, and left my pepper seeded for the heck of it. it was so easy and absolutely delicious. reply kate december 5, 2019 thank you, stephanie! reply kb december 8, 2019 perfect! quick and yet layers of flavor. ★★★★★ reply lucysunshine december 21, 2019 keeper! i did not serve it over rice so i did not want it super saucy. i do agree with those that warned the full 28oz of tomatoes would makes this a little too tomatoey. i reduced tomatoes by half. to get the consistency i like i added a little of the water i saved from making the chickpeas (i did not use canned) the spice levels were perfect as written! thanks for another winner ★★★★★ reply angela february 3, 2020 very tasty! i added a lot of extra salt and a little less cayenne powder. i used diced tomatoes because that’s what i had and i didn’t put any serrano peppers in. i added about 1/4 cup of heavy whipping cream since i did not have coconut milk. served with cauliflower rice. it came out really good. ★★★★★ reply kate february 3, 2020 thank you for sharing, angela! i appreciate your review. reply pallavi bharadwaj march 18, 2020 thank you so much for sharing this recipe kate! i made this for lunch today. since i am from india i had some additional spices that make this taste truly restaurant style. dried fenugreek leaves and dried pomegranate seeds powder case in point. i am mentioning since you said you love chana masala as much as i do! keep these coming please. your daily recipes are therapeutic in these crazy times :) ★★★★★ reply kate march 19, 2020 you’re welcome! i’m glad this one meets your expectations. :) reply alexa march 18, 2020 i’m sure i’ve already posted a comment about this recipe…but it is my absolute favorite! easy, economical and delicious — who could ask for more? :) ★★★★★ reply kate march 19, 2020 thank you, alexa! thanks so much for sharing. reply hayley march 18, 2020 i’m really happy you re-posted this! it’s been taunting me in pinterest forever, and i have all the ingredients on hand (and pretty much always do). i’m going to be adding it to the dinner rotation this week – with all that’s going on, i’m forced to work from home, and i love getting in the kitchen after holing up in my office all day to cook! reply kate march 19, 2020 thank you, hayley! let me know what you think. reply rachna ramanathan march 18, 2020 this is an awesome recipe! perfect for a weeknight meal. i would suggest attempting a paneer makhani next, which is a traditional indian cottage cheese delicacy with lots of creamy goodness! i use maunika gowardhan’s butter chicken recipe and replace the meat with cottage cheese, it’s delicious!! ★★★★★ reply loulie march 18, 2020 the guys worked out in the cold all day today getting ready for spring planting; this warm-sounding indian dish seemed like the perfect dish for dinner. we have just finished eating and i want to say this was a perfect, delightfully flavored, one-dish meal!! i substituted diced, roasted chicken for the chickpeas and found the flavors delightful!! thank you for yet another of your recipes for our “favorites” file!! ★★★★★ reply kate march 19, 2020 i’m glad you love it, rachna! thank you for your review and comment. reply ana march 18, 2020 this recipe looks luscious, and i look forward to trying it. could you please give the nutritional info for the chana masala separately from the rice? i’d like to know whether skipping the rice will bring the total carbohydrate count out of the stratosphere. reply kate march 19, 2020 hi ana, i don’t have that information for you. here is more on my nutritional information:https://cookieandkate.com/nutrition-disclaimer/. you can always use an online tool to input your specific measurements to be more exact. sorry i can’t be of more help! reply nancy sarner march 19, 2020 thank you! wanted to find a chana masala recipe today and this was in my mailbox! yay! will make this tonight. reply kate march 19, 2020 i hope you love it, nancy! reply carol berman march 19, 2020 sounds like the perfect comfort food. since i do have amchur (mango powder), how much would you suggest in the recipe? luckily i have all the ingredients at hand. reply kate march 19, 2020 hi carol, i didn’t use it so i’m not quite sure how much would work for it, without being too much or too little. but, you could try to omit the lemon at the end if you like and add by taste? i’m glad you have all the ingredients on hand! reply pam march 19, 2020 today i made the chana masala and my husband and i loved it. so creamy and delicious. truly a comfort food. served over brown rice. thank you. ★★★★★ reply elizabeth march 22, 2020 has this recipe changed a little recently? i made this recipe about 2 months ago. i kept the link. i swear it called for cumin seeds in the beginning. i recall it saying to watch out for burning of the seeds. am i going crazy? lol ★★★★★ reply kate march 25, 2020 hey elizabeth, yes it changed! you have a good memory. :) the original recipe called for cooking 1 ½ teaspoons cumin seeds in the oil before adding the onions, etc. i switched to cumin powder, since most people don’t keep the seeds on hand. i’ll add it to the recipe notes in case you’d like to make the original version. reply megan g. march 22, 2020 i love this recipe and thank you for posting something to make use of pantry items and spices! i have been working through quite a bit of your recipes while we’re isolating and it’s been fun to try new things. thanks again and stay well! ★★★★★ reply teija march 23, 2020 love this recipe, have made it multiple times! am i going crazy though, but did this recipe originally call for cumin seeds? thank you for sharing this recipe! reply kate march 25, 2020 glad to hear it, teija! you’re not going crazy. :) the original recipe called for cooking 1 ½ teaspoons cumin seeds in the oil before adding the onions, etc. i switched to cumin powder, since most people don’t keep the seeds on hand. i’ll add it to the recipe notes in case you’d like to make the original version. reply pat march 24, 2020 delicious! very easy to make! first time i made it i followed the recipe (leaving out the peppers). liked it so much made it again a few days later. thank you for all the great recipes! reply alli march 25, 2020 i’m so obsessed with this recipe, i probably make it once a week! even my meat-eating family loves this meal. i concur with the ground cumin edit — it still gets the cumin flavor, but without the hassle of finding whole cumin seeds. i like to also top this dish with pine nuts for an extra nutty note! thanks for the great recipe, kate!! ★★★★★ reply gail march 26, 2020 just made this and it’s wonderful! i used my instant pot: saute feature for the vegetables and spices, then added rest of ingredients and pressured it for 5 mins., using the quick release option. i didn’t have 2 cans of chickpeas, so used lentils i already had cooked. this is a five star recipe in my book and i will definitely be making it again! ★★★★★ reply gail march 26, 2020 i posted earlier about this recipe and said i didn’t have 2 cans of chickpeas so i used lentils. to clarify, i used 1 can of chickpeas and about 2 cups of cooked lentils. and loved every bite! ★★★★★ reply lorraine march 26, 2020 made this for me and my hubby with your newly posted cornbread :) and they were so yummy! definitely going into my rotation! ★★★★★ reply kate march 27, 2020 i like you made both! thank you for sharing, lorraine. :) reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}