skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about quidco new member offers including £16 free after cashback! by naomi willis | last updated 14th february 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links share tweet pin don’t just sign up for a cashback account. make sure you check out the quidco new member offers and earn bonus cashback in the process. cashback is awesome. you get paid money for going about your usual business – no catches. you just get paid for shopping! we’ve been using cashback for years and have made almost £1,000 from our normal purchases over time. i know so many of you haven’t got started with cashback yet but don’t fret, it’s easy to get going. don’t just sign up while i’d suggest everyone signs up for an account, i’d also tell you not to be so hasty! you can create an account absolutely free, but what’s the point of that if you can get a quidco signup bonus at the same time. the bonus will usually be extra free money or a free product so it’s well worth taking advantage of these offers. quidco new member offers these are the best and current new member offers that quidco is running. take your pick what works best for you. £16 free after cashback the best deal will see you receive a whopping £16 cashback for just a £10 spend. all you need to do is be subscribed to our weekly newsletter and you’ll receive the link to the £16 cashback bonus in your first email from us. if you don’t want to sign up to our newsletter, there are plenty more cashback offers below. get 2 free odeon cinema tickets after cashback cinema tickets can be expensive at the best of times, so why not get them for free instead? sign up for quidco and make a purchase via groupon to get two cinema tickets for free. offer ends 21 march 2020. > get your cashback offer here < get quidco new member cashback on anything! use this quidco offer to shop absolutely anywhere and get £10 cashback when you spend £10. it’s literally free money! browse any of the 4,500 shops and service providers, make your purchase and get £10 paid back to you. maybe you want cheaper car insurance, or there is something on your amazon wishlist? just pick the retailer and away you go. > get your cashback offer here < dominos pizza can’t be bothered to cook dinner? fancy a treat for the weekend? instead of wasting your own money, get this cashback offer. get £10 cashback when you join quidco and order your next domino’s. > sign up for your pizza free after cashback here < £10 cashback on fashion join quidco then shop at any of the following retailers and you’ll get £10 cashback. h&m new look topshop/topman boohoo/boohooman asos prettylittlething george at asda debenhams marks & spencer very gap river island any other retailer listed in the quidco fashion category > get £10 cashback on fashion here < save on utilities time to switch your energy provider? then why not cash in and earn some money in the process. join quidco via this link and get £10 cashback when you switch your energy provider. you can choose to switch to any other provider. save on toys looking for a birthday gift? getting prepared for christmas? just looking to treat someone? join quidco and shop via any of the shops listed in the toys category and you’ll get a £10 cashback bonus! easy peasy! all new offers will be updated as soon as we hear about them. if these ones don’t take your fancy then just bookmark this page and check back again soon. alternatively, drop me an email, find us in one of our facebook communities, or leave a comment below with a cashback deal that you’d love to see. quidco existing user offers while the deals above are just for new quidco users, there are many offers still there for people who’ve been using quidco before. here are some cashback tips that you may not know about: be sure to check out their hottest cashback offers. here it shows the very best cashback offers, voucher codes and more all in one place. it’ll stop the need to hunt around for the really decent deals. if you’re not always shopping online then you need to ensure you are using high street. this allows you to earn cashback when you’re shopping – well – on the high street! you need to manually activate these offers, so take a look at the shops and restaurants to see which ones you’re going to benefit from. of course, getting something for nothing is great and you still can as an existing quidco member. there are plenty of ways to still earn free cashback. just take a look! then there’s the free and cheap food. make sure you’re using the clipsnap app (but you could just get cashback via their site) to get cashback on your food shop. if you’ve already got a quidco account, how about trying topcashback as well? they have loads of new member offers too. naomi willis naomi knows the burden of living on very little and became debt free by learning from past mistakes and following her own money saving tips and tricks. skintdad.co.uk * to ensure skint dad remains completely free to use, this post may contain affiliate links. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about