about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ quinoa vegetable soup with kale 595 comments jump to recipe we’ve been living in a winter wonderland lately. we’ve gotten so much snow that my dog, cookie, can barely keep her head above it when we go outside (she’s smaller than you think). i’m thankful to have electricity and gearing up for more winter weather this weekend. this hearty soup is exactly what i need. it’s brimming with fresh veggies and warms me right up. soup to the rescue! this homemade vegetable soup with quinoa is light but filling and packs great for lunch. like most soups, it tastes even better the next day. bonus? it freezes well, too. i love keeping my freezer stocked with hearty soups and defrosting one whenever i need a quick but nutritious meal. this soup is vegan unless you want to top it with parmesan cheese, which isn’t a bad idea if you ask me. the ingredients list, while a little on the long side, includes mostly pantry items. every single one of them is nutritious! quinoa vegetable soup recipe development confession: the idea for this soup recipe came from trader joe’s. (you know what they say about grocery shopping while hungry.) a few years ago, their “vegetable soup with quinoa and kale” caught my eye in the refrigerated section right as my stomach grumbled. i was initially skeptical about quinoa in soup (will it get mushy? does the flavor play nicely with the other ingredients?), but now i’m only wondering what took me so long to try it. quinoa was meant for soup. it lends some extra protein and hearty texture. unlike most other vegetable soups, which are too light to count as a full meal, this is a true meal-in-a-bowl if you eat enough of it. i adapted this recipe from my lentil soup, which has gotten quite a few raving reviews. i hope you enjoy this one just as much. recipe notes & tips i wrote the recipe so it’s easily adapted to seasons. winter squash would be lovely in place of the zucchini that i used. this soup straddles the line between soup and stew, but whatever you call it, it’s delicious. if you want more of a soup, use 3/4 cup quinoa and 1 cup seasonal veggies. if you want more of a stew, use a full cup of quinoa, two cups of seasonal vegetables and throw in some extra greens. please let me know how you like this soup in the comments! i love hearing from you. if you enjoy this soup, be sure to check out my minestrone, lentil soup, megan’s quinoa stew, and the hearty soup recipes in my cookbook. print quinoa vegetable soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 15 mins cook time: 45 mins total time: 1 hour yield: 4 to 6 servings 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: american ★★★★★ 4.9 from 228 reviews this healthy homemade vegetable soup recipe is full of veggies, kale and quinoa. it’s easy to make and good for you, too! this soup makes great leftovers. it’s gluten free and vegan, as long as you don’t top it with optional parmesan cheese. recipe yields 4 to 6 servings of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 3 tablespoons extra virgin olive oil 1 medium yellow or white onion, chopped 3 carrots, peeled and chopped 2 celery stalks, chopped 1 to 2 cups chopped seasonal vegetables, like zucchini, yellow squash, bell pepper, sweet potatoes or butternut squash 6 garlic cloves, pressed or minced ½ teaspoon dried thyme 1 large can (28 ounces) diced tomatoes scant 1 cup quinoa, rinsed well in a fine mesh colander (use less for a lighter, more broth-y soup) 4 cups (32 ounces) vegetable broth 2 cups water 1 teaspoon salt, more to taste 2 bay leaves pinch red pepper flakes freshly ground black pepper 1 can (15 ounces) great northern beans or chickpeas, rinsed and drained 1 cup or more chopped fresh kale or collard greens, tough ribs removed 1 to 2 teaspoons lemon juice, to taste optional garnish: freshly grated parmesan cheese instructions warm the olive oil in a large dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. once the oil is shimmering, add the chopped onion, carrot, celery, seasonal vegetables and a pinch of salt. cook, stirring often, until the onion has softened and is turning translucent, about 6 to 8 minutes. add the garlic and thyme. cook until fragrant while stirring frequently, about 1 minute. pour in the diced tomatoes with their juices and cook for a few more minutes, stirring often. pour in the quinoa, broth and the water. add 1 teaspoon salt, 2 bay leaves and a pinch of red pepper flakes. season generously with freshly ground black pepper. raise heat and bring the mixture to a boil, then partially cover the pot and reduce heat to maintain a gentle simmer. cook for 25 minutes, then remove the lid and add the beans and the chopped greens. continue simmering for 5 minutes or more, until the greens have softened to your liking. remove the pot from heat, then remove the bay leaves. stir in 1 teaspoon lemon juice. taste and season with more salt, pepper and/or lemon juice until the flavors really sing. (you might need up to ½ teaspoon more salt, depending on your vegetable broth and your personal preferences.) divide into bowls and top with grated parmesan if you’d like. notes recipe inspired by trader joe’s organic vegetable soup with quinoa and kale. recipe adapted from my lentil soup recipe. seasonal vegetable preparation tips: if you’re using dense vegetables like butternut or sweet potato for your seasonal vegetables, be sure to chop them as small as you’re chopping your carrots so they cook in the same amount of time. slow cooker option: i haven’t tried, but sarah reports that her soup turned out well after 8 hours on low heat. storage suggestions: this soup keeps well in the refrigerator for about 4 days. it freezes and defrosts well if you want to freeze extra portions for later! recommended equipment: i’m convinced that everything i cook in my dutch oven (affiliate link) comes out extra delicious. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes seriously good vegetable soup classic minestrone soup pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans) share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, easy weeknight dinners, egg free, fall, gluten free, italian, main dishes, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, spring, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients bell peppers, butternut squash, carrots, celery, kale, quinoa, white beans, yellow squash, zucchini ↢ newer favorite hot chocolate older ↣ roasted cauliflower and farro salad with feta and avocado by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) brooke december 24, 2019 i made this recipe and it turned out so wonderful. i added field roast sausages and it still came out great. i am going to come back to this recipe, many many times. thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate december 27, 2019 you’re welcome, brooke! reply ruth prokesch december 26, 2019 hi kate! i made a giant greek quinoa and kale salad (with bottled greek salad dressing and feta cheese) for our christmas dinner potluck yesterday as i’m trying to avoid meat. it was a great salad, but less than a best seller as there was a huge quantity of traditional food as well. so i brought home quite a bit. i google searched quinoa soup, and found your recipe. so i’m following your recipe, with the addition of two cups greek quinoa and kale salad which also has red and green pepper, red onion, cucumber and cherry tomatoes. other than what was in my salad, and the onion, carrot and celery, i didn’t add any seasonal vegetables. i hate to waste food, and the salad as is was getting a wee bit gummy, so this was the perfect way to salvage it, and make a great pot of soup at the same time. i love to freeze soup in individual portions for lunches for work (or home). i don’t love eating the same thing day after day, so this absolutely works. i’m printing your recipe, so i can make it again, following your method to the letter next time. thank you, and have a blessed and prosperous 2020! ★★★★★ reply kate december 27, 2019 thank you for sharing, ruth! reply janet january 4, 2020 making this tonight! looks delicious and comforting. reply julia mikkelborg january 4, 2020 i just found your recipe site and i made this soup today. i followed your recipe exactly and this is just delicious! definitely will be adding this soup to my weekly meal rotation! thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate january 9, 2020 you’re welcome! i’m happy you enjoyed it, julia. reply kristi january 8, 2020 so yummy! topped with vegan parm and served with crusty bread. thanks for sharing. ★★★★★ reply kate january 10, 2020 sounds perfect, kristi! thanks for sharing. reply jennifer allison january 9, 2020 i made this soup last night. it has so much flavor and is delicious! for the seasonal vegetables, i used a small green and small yellow zucchini, and 1 small sweet potato. i followed the recipe as it, putting in a little less than 1 cup of quinoa because it was all i had on hand. i think it was plenty. i noticed this morning that the quinoa has soaked up a lot of the broth. i’ll add more broth and might consider cooking the quinoa separately next time, adding it to each serving bowl. i would do this because we tend to eat soups over a few days. another great recipe, kate! ★★★★★ reply kate january 9, 2020 thank you for sharing how you made this soup, jennifer! i appreciate your review. reply dee january 9, 2020 question: what do you think is the calorie count per serving? i assume it can’t be much since it’s mostly vegetables, including the broth. i made this soup and love it so much, i’m not only having a bowl of it for lunch, i’m having it as a snack. ★★★★★ reply kate january 10, 2020 hi dee! the nutritional information is below the recipe notes section. you need to click to expand and ensure you allow cookies in your browser. reply maeve january 13, 2020 hands down my favourite vegetable soup recipe!! you can add whatever veggies you feel like and even add ★★★★★ reply maeve january 13, 2020 hands down my favourite vegetable soup recipe!! thanks kate :) ★★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 great to hear, maeve! reply erin january 14, 2020 my favorite soup recipe! filling and healthy. i use different vegetables every time and love it just the same. perfect for winter! ★★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 i agree! thank you for your review, erin. reply jess january 14, 2020 my family loves this soup so much!! it’s a regular in my house and even my small children eat it up!! ★★★★★ reply kate january 20, 2020 i’m happy this one is a regular, jess! i appreciate your review. reply mary matyja january 15, 2020 i just finished making this. it was delicious. ★★★★★ reply kate january 16, 2020 i’m glad you loved it, mary! reply lee-anne january 18, 2020 i made this and used turnip and potato, turned out delish! thanks ★★★★★ reply karen january 19, 2020 since our household turned vegan i have struggled to find good dinner options. this was a hit and will now be a staple! thank you! ★★★★★ reply emily paul january 20, 2020 any suggestions on how i can add more plant-based protein to this yummy recipe? reply kate january 20, 2020 hi emily! chickpeas are always a great option. reply jen dyment january 22, 2020 i made this on the stove top and it was delicious. and then i made it in the crockpot & it was blah. i’m sticking to making it on the stove top. i also used the tjs mirapox mix to speed up things. reply sharon january 23, 2020 hi! i love your recipies! can i use brown rice instead of quinoa? thanks! reply kate january 23, 2020 hi sharon, sure. you might want to adjust cooking time and liquid. reply rachel january 25, 2020 this was amazing! i was able to use up some produce that would have otherwise spoiled (spinach, potato, extra carrots) and now have healthy, filling lunches for the week. i used ~1 tsp red pepper flakes and used fire roasted tomato for extra spice. will definitely make again! ★★★★★ reply kate january 28, 2020 i love that, rachel! thank you for sharing. reply alison january 26, 2020 favourite soup recipe by far! hearty, filling, and vegan!! thankyou for sharing reply laura scully january 28, 2020 this is my favorite stew to make! i’ve made is about five times, and i finally decided to give y’all some well-deserved credit. thank you! ★★★★★ reply yvonne january 29, 2020 i prepared this last night using summer squash for the vegetable (not exactly seasonal, but it was on hand!), and leaving out the can of beans. i also used chopped spinach in addition to the kale. my whole family (small kids included) enjoyed the soup very much. i will definitely be making it again! ★★★★★ reply molly february 2, 2020 i made this using farro instead of quinoa and it was delicious. i’ll make it again soon. reply mary pelychaty february 7, 2020 i prepared this soup for a grieving family because the mom told me she was vegan. all was eaten the same day it was delivered. i did omit the black pepper and pepper flakes because so many individuals have sensitive stomachs. thank you for this wonderful recepie! ★★★★★ reply kate february 12, 2020 you’re welcome, mary! reply pam february 12, 2020 love this recipe and want to try in my instapot and i don’t see that anyone has tried it in the comments. so you have any suggestion for that? i could just do on the stove if you don’t but thanks. ★★★★★ reply kate february 13, 2020 hi pam! i don’t have instant pot instructions sorry. that would require a different recipe & steps. i love this one as is and it makes great leftovers! reply julie february 16, 2020 i made this soup, and it was just so hearty and wonderfully delicious. i did benefit beforehand from reading among the lovely fans’ comments below that the quinoa should be made separately to allow for more broth. this is a helpful tip. another hit i look forward to making again and again, thank you, kate (and cookie!) reply cheryl february 21, 2020 this recipe is a winner that i will be printing out to keep! for the added seasonal vegetables i used up some less than firm zucchini, yellow squash and turnip that i needed to use up. added chickpeas at the same time as the quinoa since they hold their shape. accidentally added a t instead of a t of lemon juice. added the greens to individual bowls to wilt as the soup cooled enough to eat instead of cooking it in. came out great! can’t wait to try it again with different veggies. ★★★★★ reply alisha d griffin february 26, 2020 dumb question but i have to check.. is the nutrition info per serving or for the whole 6 servings? reply kate march 4, 2020 hi alisha! it’s per serving. :) reply ashley march 2, 2020 this soup/ stew is absolutely delicious. i made a big pot of this soup and had a hefty amount left over and froze it. i recently de-thawed it after almost 2months and when i say it tasted even better than the first time. definitely will be making it again and again, thank you for sharing this recipe. ★★★★★ reply joanna march 7, 2020 i have made this soup a lot and add a couple of big handfuls of kale to it. ★★★★★ reply christine whitebread march 9, 2020 made this for 32 people (4x the amounts above was just right) everyone loved it! this one is a keeper! ★★★★★ reply bobby march 21, 2020 i was trying to find a vegan recipe that was straightforward and well reviewed. this was it! there was quite a bit of chopping (carrots, celery, zucchini, broccoli stems, kale, onion, garlic), but the cooking time was a lot faster without the quinoa. i already had cooked brown rice. after adding the broth, the vegetables cooked within 10 minutes. i added 1 teaspoon of thyme instead of half, and i added more chili flakes for more punch (probably about two teaspoons). i used two 14.5oz cans of chopped tomato, two 15.5oz cans of white beans (including the liquid). the lemon was a nice touch as i squeezed it from 1.5 lemons. i also added about 2 tablespoons of nutritional yeast to add a nutty cheesy taste. ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 thank you for sharing, bobby! reply erynb march 26, 2020 hi kate! i’m making this soup tonight for maybe the hundredth time! it’s a family favorite, comfort food but still healthy. my meat eating husband often requests this soup. thank you so much for the recipe! xo ★★★★★ reply kate march 27, 2020 wonderful, eryn! i’m so glad this is a favorite for you guys. reply nelia march 27, 2020 i loved this recipe! i couldn’t find quinoa in the store so i used barley instead and it was great. i wish i had known to rinse the barley first – it turned out very starchy, but now i know for next time! ★★★★★ reply kate march 27, 2020 thank you for sharing your experience, nelia. reply karyn m march 27, 2020 wow!! this soup was delicious exactly as written! i got rave reviews for it last night and requests for your recipe. the seasonings are just perfect! ★★★★★ reply kate march 27, 2020 fantastic, karyn! thank you for your comment and review. reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}