gamewright home about us our games all new coming soon ages preschool 6 and up 8 and up 10 and up 12 and up types board games card games dice games party games strategy games cardventures cooperative games outdoor games preschool games skill/action games word games buzz for retailers where to buy talk to us qwixx™ a fast family dice game back catalog download hi-res image qwixx™ a fast family dice game this quick-playing dice game will have you on the edge of your seat from beginning to end! qwixx is simple to play but each decision is crucial - the more numbers you cross off, the more points you score. with no downtime between turns you’ll have a chance to gain from each and every roll. just one round of this thrilling game and you will be caught up in qwixx-fever! 8+ 2-5 15 min buy online buy local go about the game we first discoverd this clever little dice game at the essen game fair and it had us hooked after only one round of play. who would have guessed there’d be so many exciting twists and turns in such a small game? we love how all players are involved with every roll of the dice. with simple rules, fast decision-making and thrilling risk-taking, qwixx is sure to become a dice classic! contents 6 dice 1 score pad ** order additional score pads here: http://gamewright.shptron.com/p/qwixx-score-pads-2-pack rules in spanish rules of play reinforces math probability strategic thinking specifications stock number: #1201 show more upc code: 0759751012014 item size: 5.25" x 3.75" x 1.2" item weight: 0.37 lbs. carton size: 8.5" x 4.5" x 6.5" carton weight: 3 show less awards mensa selectoppenheim toy portfolio platinum awardparents' choice silver honordr. toy's best vacation products2011 spiel des jahres finalist more like this: qwixx™ replacement pads rolling america™ qwingo™ zoinx!™ bloom™ qwixx™ the card game games by age: preschool 6 & up 8 & up 10 & up 12 & up games by type: card games dice games party games strategy games board games quick links: our mission awards faqs need rules? buzz host a gamewright gamenight newsletter: gamewright 70 bridge street newton, ma 02458 friend us follow us © gamewright 2020