u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition contributor rachel kramer bussel guest writer icon_twittercreated with sketch. rachel kramer bussel (rachelkramerbussel.com) writes about sex, dating, books, culture and herself. she is the editor of over 60 anthologies, including the big book of orgasms, come again: sex toy erotica and the best women's erotica of the year series. she teaches erotica writing workshops around the world and online, and consults about erotica and sexuality nonfiction via eroticawriting101.com. follow her on twitter @raquelita. show full bio 8 hours ago want to know why people stockpile toilet paper? i'm a hoarder and i have a few ideas. october 30, 2016 when the universe gives you a sign that you're on the right path, embrace it october 29, 2013 how important is having sex? two new memoirs respond december 6, 2017 photos: dubai's ice bar is chill, ridiculous got a tip? do you have info to share with huffpost reporters? here’s how. december 6, 2017 'fifty shades of grey' author e.l. james starts u.s. book tour with a bang may 20, 2012 the agony and the ecstasy of steve jobs: minneapolis theater group to perform mike daisey play, incorporating this american life controversy december 6, 2017 your new favorite frenemy: valerie frankel, author of it's hard not to hate you may 25, 2011 so what if monica lewinsky is single? an open letter to the daily mail november 17, 2011 why ubiquitous use of 'post-feminist' is an insult to feminism november 17, 2011 would you send a pink toy to a baby boy? load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.