about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events radical self love started in my bedroom and became a worldwide movement. i want you to throw out everything you think you know about self-esteem. you know those books that say, “i’m okay, you’re okay”? fuck that. you’re not “okay”. you’re spectacular. you’re a gem in the rough. you’re a shimmering, exploding supernova. you’re a bombastic, bodacious, badass babe. it’s time to explode the myths we tell ourselves; time to retire those tired old stories. it’s time to stop making excuses, and to step up and live the life we’ve always dreamed about. it is truly possible to live from the most passionate, rambunctious part of your core — i am living proof, and i am not exceptional. i am just like you. i spent years spent battling depression, an eating disorder, and a preference for chaos and disaster, simply because i didn’t have any tools to help me deal with my own emotions. if you’ve been there, you know how it feels: like you’re being chewed up from the inside. it’s overwhelming, and you feel like it will never get better — that you’re doomed. but it doesn’t have to be that way. when i was 23 years old, i was astounded when i was able to kick my eating disorder to the curb. the misery that had plagued me since i was a teenager followed soon after. unencumbered by sadness, i felt like i was seeing the world through new eyes. through my years of self discovery, i’ve discovered — and created — a litany of tools and techniques, which make up the basis of my teachings of radical self love. teaching women how to fall in love with themselves — is my raison d’être, my passion, my mission. my life gets better every day, because i walk my talk. nothing is perfect, but every time i practice radical self love, i become happier, i feel more thankful, and i radiate that love out to others. you are destined for more than a life of corporate cubicle hell. you are more than just a worker bee, a mother, a wife or a girlfriend. you can be and do whatever you want. there are a million possible avenues for you to saunter down, and the only way to discover that for yourself is to put on your best shoes and just start walking. mega love always, lists 100 ways to be a love letter to the universe in praise of calling it quits: what to do when you’re burned out, & how to get your spark back 10 really easy ways you can love yourself more today! how to practice major mega supreme body love… daily! how do you embrace & celebrate your body? 100 things to do when you’re upset (the sad trombone list) radical self love homework assignments 100 ways you can start loving yourself right now radical self love questions new year, new routine? 10 things i do to keep myself feeling happy, healthy & magical! 10 ways to snap yourself out of a slump top 5 ways to define your own personal style 50 ways to put the light back in your heart essays the playgirl’s guide to radical self-love your radical self love bible! your radical self love bible — an excerpt from radical self love bootcamp! i am not sorry! am i a hypocrite for professing radical self love while wearing 5 inch heels? the intersection between fashion, personal expression & loving who you are got breast cancer? try burlesque! cutting & self-harm: the stigma & the aftermath empty bellies do not beget genius no bullsh!t, just love! what do you love about yourself? let me be the last to say… radical self love lifestyle tip #1: create disneyland in your heart every day… radical self love lifestyle tip #2: celebrate everything! a girl on a mission: how to write a personal mission statement! how can i be happy when the world is such a horrible place? how to get calm in a world full of crazy! my golden moment at the bowery mission “i’m so jealous!”: how to deal with the green-eyed monster when it threatens to get the best of you! i’m happy & my friends can’t stand it! blogger beautiful? an examination of what it means to be beautiful & valuable in fashion blogging my boyfriend is always watching porn & it makes me uncomfortable! changing your name dreams do come true: a journal excerpt from 2005 how to be more assertive how to set amazing goals i don’t want children! am i a freak?! why won’t everyone leave me alone?! a modern gal’s guide to femininity! (alternate title: do i have to wear high heels to feel like a “woman”?) understanding radical self-love: a letter i don’t know what to do with my life! i quit vogue… now what? katie makkai: “pretty” i’m jealous of other women! an act in two parts radical self-hate? stop the madness! a letter to men by christina hendricks we are becoming the men we wanted to marry i’m so mad with love… talking with gala darling about #radicalselflove forty-five thoughts for my daughter and my virtual daughters for god’s sake, don’t sleep with him! jealousy is the killer of girl love how to avoid regressing when you stay with your parents (alternate title: how to survive a family christmas) how to cope with a quarter-life crisis part one and part two romancing yourself how to have a summer romance (with yourself) how to give the best compliment ever the constant gardener things my parents taught me how to be charming how to be confident maintaining your individuality in a relationship wherever you go, there you are @galadarling on instagram load more... about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!