about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events radical rituals: abundance digital class: $222 wealth isn’t just about having money in your wallet, it’s also about figuring out what makes you feel abundant. over the course of two weeks, i’m going to lead you through a series of rituals, exercises, and activities to clean up your money mindset, bust through your blocks, and manifest cold, hard cash. it’s time to reset your abundance attitude! buy now learn more when we feel panicked or anxious about our bank balance, the grief spills over into every other area of our life. when we forget our worth, we get frantic and act out of desperation. but the most important thing when it comes to wealth is our attitude. over the course of two weeks, you’ll clean up your money mindset so you can feel abundant all the time. it can feel impossible to relax when you’re freaked out about how you’re going to pay your bills. it’s like everything clamps up inside your body: you can’t focus and you can practically feel the grey hairs sprouting out of your head. i know what it’s like to lurch from feast to famine and how incredibly hard it can be on your peace of mind… not to mention your ego! the thing that amazes me is that even when we take action to earn money, if our mindset isn’t right, we will consistently self-sabotage. or we’ll solve our short-term money problems, only to end up right back there a month or two later. we have to take action, of course — but we also need to clean up our feelings around affluence. radical rituals: abundance is your antidote to money panic. over the course of two weeks, you’ll be guided through daily lessons packed with everything you need to know to reset your abundance attitude. you’ll watch instructional videos, discover easy everyday rituals that you can implement straight away, and learn simple techniques to truly alleviate your anxiety in a flash. these are all methods that i have used to change how i feel about money, which in turn leads to more money in the bank! i have so many examples of how this has worked for me, like the weekend i made $40,000 with no extra effort… which i’ll tell you about in class! being afraid to look at your bank balance is one of the most awful and gut-wrenching feelings in the world. i wouldn’t wish it on my worst enemy. but it’s so easy to change how we feel, and in turn, change our reality! i want to help you feel positive about money. i want you to be able to buy whatever you want! i want to help you make your business lucrative, so you can support the people and causes that are important to you. it’s so essential that women feel informed and unafraid of money, because it’s the fastest way to change the world! you can do this. it’s so much easier than you think. let’s power up together. faq q. what’s the format? when you sign up, you’ll receive an email* welcoming you to radical rituals, and then we’ll get started! there will be a lesson every day for two weeks, with activities, rituals, and affirmations. * if you don’t, check your spam and trash folders! if there’s still no trace, email us so we can track it down. q. do i need any supplies? yes. radical rituals does require a few supplies, and you’ll receive a list of what you’ll need ahead of time. they are easy to acquire — no eye of newt here! — and i also offer up substitutions just in case. q. what is your refund policy? as per industry standard, i don’t offer refunds on programs that can be downloaded and viewed. that having been said, i have never had anyone ask for a refund! i’m absolutely confident that if you work through the activities, radical rituals will elevate your attitude around money and help you feel joyful and abundant. testimonials "wow! what an incredible course this was!!!! i am so appreciative and grateful!! i noticed these 'small' yet significant manifestations happening & thought, yep i think i can really actually do this & manifest the amount i wrote down for the 2 weeks - which was $6,870. it seemed huge though, and a bit far-fetched! i must admit i was definitely skeptical.. especially about other people's stories. holy shite!!!! i am now so fucking excited as to what i might be able to unfold in my life. i don't think i could describe how broke i've been or how much i've struggled over the years. this has completely blown my mind & caused so many tears - happy tears!!! i manifested...... just over $100,000... what the actual fuck??!!! this was through income, as well as an inheritance that my ex (yes ex!) boyfriend received, that he chose to share with me due to the tough time we had financially when we were together - we broke up over 2 years ago! i am in absolute awe of you & your work, i will be forever grateful!" louise kingston "omg gala! i just got an amazing job offer which not only is in alignment with my values & what i wanna bring into the world but also is half of what i wanna manifest in the next two weeks! then i met a woman today which is living in an emergency night place. she really needed help and she asked me for 30 dollars to buy painkillers for her leg. i gave it to her... if i'm worthy of living in abundance others are as well. i'm so grateful for this experience and also i didn't feel guilty or in worry for one second that there will be not enough for me. sending you a big hug!!" aleks glitzeric "alright, this is crazy huge! i just figured out the amount of money that i need the next 2 weeks in order to do the things i want to do. literally seconds after i wrote down the amount, an email pops up in my inbox about a new freelance assignment. which will be covering half the amount i wrote down. i'm in (happy) tears!" jessica ladew "dear gala, just want to report that i participated in your live tapping for attracting abundance and thus far have experienced really powerful change! i had about two days of emotional purging and doing the tapping each morning and now i keep finding job offers everywhere and!! i realized i had intense fear around my savings account to the point where i was blocking the flow, so i used a portion of it to treat myself and another bit i donated, and then right afterwards someone else called me with another job offer! thank you for your magical awesomeness! oh ps - should add that the new job offer doubles my current salary sooo any fear i had over "lacking" or not being able to pay myself back went out the window! ally "i was a day late starting so today i made my list of what i'd like to buy in two weeks. the total came to an even $1250. the thing is yesterday i received an email confirming a scholarship i'd be receiving and today i checked the value and it is two payments of, yep, $1250 each semester! i am floating! thank you for sharing your gift and insight!" jasmine redfern "did the tapping before i went to bed last night and woke up to $4k out of the blue today! i also had two potential clients reach out to me and if they sign it will be $20k in income! yasssss #abundance ... manifested another $5k, i'm up to $9k so far!" jessica sutty "wow! so excited for this. i completed the day 1 exercise and then found out an hour later i had won a competition! (goodies and toys for my fur babies). i've never won anything before! can't wait for day 2!" nia dunbar "loving the course so far! so i need to come up with a $4000 in 2 weeks deposit for a laser cutter to expand my business. i’ve been getting surprise sales and orders which is great, but not big enough just yet. last night, a friend who doesn’t know that i need the money texted me that he’s putting 1k in my account to pre-pay for wall artwork. yasss universe!! thank you!" amanda reynolds more testimonials "thank you so much for your workshop! i wrote down €4450 and all in all i got €4000. it included a louis vuitton bag which i wanted to have for years now and i got this bag surprisingly as a birthday gift last week. and the rest i won in the lottery a few weeks back which was amazing! also i am in for a second interview the day after tomorrow for a job that wouldn't only pay a lot better but is a real "career step" for me. i feel that i have so much! thank you so much you are truly magical!" rebecca seidler "hi gala! just wanted to drop in and say that i made my goal for the two weeks $5000. as of this morning i've made $3785 with more coming later today! so grateful for you!" brittanny taylor "okay i have to admit i was feeling a tiny bit skeptical since i’ve seen all these testimonials on people manifesting hundreds of dollars out of thin air, and was starting to wonder if my abundance was only going to be coming in the absence of having to spend money (coupons, other people footing the bill, etc—which was all happening). i knew most of my money for the amount i wrote down was going to come from my paycheck but there was a couple hundred i wasn’t sure where it was going to come from. lo and behold i remembered some old savings bonds i’ve had foreverrrr so they are definitely aged and now worth... you guessed it, at least $200 total. i just did up the math and i will have $29 left over for the two weeks, and that is if i spend all the money i was planning to. i’m a believer now! thanks for all you do. i’ve been following you for years and you are always a source of high vibration when i need it most." siobhan nichols "i watched your live broadcast about abundance and did the tapping exercise to get in the right headspace to receive. our landlords just raised our rent to a ridiculous amount. after freaking out and stressing about it, we decided to just go for it and see if we qualified for a mortgage. within 24 hours we found a 2 bedroom condo, got pre approved, placed an offer, and it was accepted!!! this wouldn't have been possible if i continued to focus on what's not in my bank account. i want to say thank you!" lysett mcconville "i haven't yet practiced day 2 but have done day 1. i'm amazed. today my partner and i have received some inheritance that more than covers the list. now it may not exactly go on the things on the list but it certainly will cover some of them! i'm so excited to see what else comes along!" natalie stableford "your radical rituals: abundance program is amazing. it helps me beyond the money issues. abundance is so much more. it is love, it is health, it is sex, it is wealth. i decided to go to a sex therapy for couples, healing energies and communication for couples. i decided to buy that fucking wallet. i decided to allow myself to have a good time with a glass of wine. pleasure drives abundance to me. thank you for everything gala." lilith witchcraft "i just wanted to let you know, i am enjoying and learning so much from this course! i am shocked to see how out of touch i have been with my mind set about money. i have been truly unaware of my thought processes. the insight your course has provided for me is so exciting!!! i would recommend this course to anyone! it's truly valuable. also the tapping!! just blows my mind, so great! thank you." julia mahan "well, i decided this weekend that i needed to quit this horrible retail job for the sake of my mental health but again, started to panic about money. i had never really given manifesting or affirmations a true shot before but happen to stumble across gala's instagram story. i watched the video and did her guided tapping exercise. i felt so much negative energy and anxiety physically leave my body that i literally passed out & fell asleep afterward because i was exhausted. i kid you not, the day after i did this, i woke up to three inquiries from extremely high paying, soulmate clients and received two more later that day (and two more today that i had to turn down because there are only 24 hours in a day!). on top of that, my husband had an interview that same day and then today received an incredible job offer (that comes with a huge raise) as a result. it's only wednesday! i've literally achieved more in 3 days than i have in the last 3 months. because i took 45 minutes one night to focus on myself and my energy. i seriously feel unstoppable right now!" makayla plock holmes "got a random tax return check in the mail today for over $800!" vinny calogero "day 2: manifested a 3 month unlimited yoga/massage membership! $0 paid by me and worth way more than that i was calling in! #amazing" dr lisa dofka "yesterday, after this tapping session, i channeled this feeling of trust in the universe; i felt peaceful and safe. this morning i woke up with a little ache in my heart, worrying about bills. i replaced that worry with gratitude. i got to work feeling fortunate. my boss walks in and pulls out his wallet and hands me $200 for "a job well done". i'm slightly freaked out by how incredibly real this manifestation is!" bradiee "gala!! guess what! i got home today to discover a letter from the canada savings bond program. my grandmother had purchased a bond when i was a child and after 20 years (and some compounding interest) i get to claim it. how amazing is that! i did not even know my grandmother had purchased the bond. i immediately started thanking everyone out loud and then thought i will donate some to a charity to show appreciation and help continue the flow of abundance. it also covers the remainder of my day 1 money goal, so i am now at $0!! woohoo! i am over the moon!" stephanie byrne "i'm down to $0 from day 1! i gotta say i was a bit doubtful, esp since i thought i had my finances pretty much under control... boy was i surprised what came up during your exercises! ... another abundance update: guess who just came back from a vacation and got a free upgrade on the flight, a free upgrade on the hotel room, and a free upgrade on the return flight! i didn't even consciously ask for the upgrades, they all "just happened". coincidence? i think not!!! thanks for all the work you put into your classes!" dae "since starting radical rituals i've had 4 new prospective clients reach out to me! then today, i received a call back from a corporate gig i did back in august. i'm their first choice for their district wide wellness day. they want me to teach a few classes that day with possibility of future gigs... omg it's happening!" jenn rose "gala darling's radical rituals abundance course is insane. i love spiritual tools to help break through our blocks and this course is so good, already seeing my e-commerce store getting a major boost in sales it's literal magic. i honestly am in joyful shock!" diya sengupta about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!