about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events radical self-love: a guide to loving yourself and living your dreams soft cover book radical self-love is designed to be your ultimate guide to living the life you’ve only dreamed about. you’ll discover exactly what makes you so magnificent, and you’ll gain a litany of tools and techniques to help you manifest a life bursting with magic, miracles, bliss, and adventure! featuring fun homework exercises and cool illustrations, this book will take you from learning to fall madly in love with yourself, to loving others, to making your world a more magical place through style, self-expression, and manifestation. buy now learn more i believe that radical self-love can go hand in hand with a ruby-red lip. i believe that happiness can be cultivated. i believe that unless you fully love and appreciate yourself, your intimate relationships will be a shit-show of epic proportions. i believe that learning how to love yourself can be a party: streamers, disco balls, helium balloons, and all! i want you to realize your radiance. i want you to come to terms with your innate goddess nature. i want you to figure out how goddamn fabulous you are. the universe is waiting for you to step up and live out loud! everywhere i look, i see an epidemic: millions of incredibly smart, sublimely beautiful and unique women who cannot see their own luminescence. women full of doubt, women full of fear. women who feel confused by what they “should” be, torn apart by conflicting messages from society and the media, women who feel that the only way to move safely through the world is to turn down the volume on their own joy. feeling constrained and restricted is no way to move through life. it’s depressing and it shrinks your vision of what is possible. you end up living a life that feels like someone else planned it. i can say this with authority because once upon a time, i was trapped too. through a combination of techniques, i was able to break free from my self-imposed prison, and create a life more colourful and beautiful than my wildest dreams. if i can do it, you can too! that’s why i wrote radical self-love: a guide to loving yourself and living your dreams. i want to hold up a mirror so that you can see just how magnificent you are. inside the pages of this book, you’ll rediscover the glorious babe you are. testimonials “radical self-love should be on every woman's bookshelf. gala darling is the fresh voice of a new generation, encouraging us to love ourselves and rediscover the most magical facets of who we are. this book will crack you open to the presence of your authentic power.” gabrielle bernstein, new york times bestselling author of miracles now “this book taught me how important it is to love yourself unapologetically through self-expression! i have never had so much confidence in myself and who i am. every time i pick up this book to re-read it i am inspired in a new way.” pauline vane “i'm only half way through gala's amazing book - radical self-love and already i have gotten so much out of it. from it i have discovered tapping which is helping me deal with ibs and i've already taken steps to increase my networking and meet new people. i absorb almost everything gala puts out. she exudes self-confidence and is just simply amazeballs. bottom line - both she and this book sparkle! go get it!” valerie m. black “i’ve read the book not once, not twice, but three times. i have gifted 4 copies to the glorious unicorns in my life, that haven't quite come to the realisation of their splendidness! i love gala. she's the sister i've always wanted, the mentor i've always needed! i owe so much to her and her ability to create empowerment and spread glitter wherever she goes. thus book is her legacy!” kara botes more testimonials “this book showed me how to truly love myself on a whole new level which enables me to better love others and my life. the homework made me keen to be a doer not just read the book and forget about it (although that could never happen if you read this cover to cover) and the book has empowered me to change my life and turn my dreams into reality. gala darling is living proof that everyone has dark days but we make the decision to see that as an opportunity to learn, grow and create an incredibly fulfilling and happy life full of love!” pita pumpkineater “when i ordered this book i wasn't looking for a self help book, i loved gala darling and wanted to support her dream of becoming a successful author. then i read it and i loved every page! her style isn't how-to, it's like talking to a friend and that's my favorite part. i wasn't feeling sad or lost but i realized i was not truly loving my self. i was already on a journey of healing old wounds when i found this and it morphed that journey into one of learning how to truely love myself and in that i have found the most productive healing yet. i just cannot say enough good things i recommend this book to numerous people have bought it for some of my closest friends and keep an extra copy on hand to loan out!” erica trapold “i read gala's book at age 18, back when it was called love and sequins and released in individual chapters. this book was my introduction to creating my own reality, living my life the way i want to, and loving myself just the way i am! it influenced me at a critical point in my life, one year post depression and living on my own for the first time ever. because of gala, i've gone on to do some amazing things - move to ecuador on a whim, travel on my own all over the world, and start my own business where i teach passionate female entrepreneurs to claim their dream lives now! the newest version of gala's book is even more packed with amazing insight and actionable tips to make your life beautiful from the inside out. it's my go to when i'm feeling down or stuck and need some inspiration. thank you so much for creating this, gala! you have seriously changed my life for the better and i will forever be grateful.” lauren ashley erickson “this book is a must have for every woman who has ever felt not enough. i've bought copies for friends and plan to reread it in the new year to set the new year on the right path. gala gently shows that the only way is to love yourself completely, and to have fun doing it!” lizzy kelsey buy radical self-love amazon barnes and noble amazon canada amazon uk booktopia (australia) about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!