wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides rafflepress - wordpress giveaway plugin rating: compatible up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get rafflepress rafflepress is the most powerful wordpress giveaway and contest plugin in the market. the drag & drop builder combined with proven giveaway templates make it easy for you to launch viral giveaway and contests with just a few clicks. we created rafflepress with a performance and results first approach making sure that it is extremely fast at all times and every action helps you grow your website, faster. rafflepress has all the features you will need to create a powerful giveaway / contest for your website or online store. subscribe to wpbeginner how rafflepress works? rafflepress helps you turn your visitors into brand ambassadors. as a result, you get more website traffic, email subscribers, and social media engagement faster without buying any paid ads! once you setup your viral giveaway with rafflepress, it helps you capture visitor’s attention with the free gifts that you’re offering … and what happens next is amazing. to enter the giveaway, website visitors must use their email address. this helps you grow your email list. rafflepress incentivizes your website visitor to share the giveaway to get more entries into the contest. this helps you increase social media engagement. the word-of-mouth marketing helps you get more traffic, faster! this results in more followers, more sales, and more revenue! rafflepress is a tool that we built for wpbeginner because we know how effective this technology is. if you’re serious about growing your website traffic, social media followers, or your email list, then you need rafflepress. rafflepress features: drag & drop giveaway builder viral giveaway templates responsive mobile friendly giveaway widget 1-click entry + fraud protection viral sharing (refer a friend) social media integrations email marketing & crm integrations giveaway landing page tracking and reporting rafflepress actions: rafflepress offers goal focused giveaway actions to help you get more subscribers, get more social engagement, and get more website traffic. get more subscribers actions: visit us on facebook follow us on twitter visit us on instagram follow us on pinterest visit our youtube channel join an email newsletter get more social engagement actions: refer a friend (viral) view facebook post / video view instagram post / video watch a youtube video get more website traffic actions: tweet a message share a facebook message visit a page answer a question invent your own after reading this feature list, you can probably imagine why rafflepress is the best wordpress contest plugin in the market. ready to grow your website traffic with viral giveaways? rafflepress takes only a few minutes to setup, and there is a risk-free 14 day money back guarantee. get rafflepress now wpbeginner users get a special 20% off when you use the rafflepress coupon –> wpbeginner20. not ready to buy the pro version? you can also try rafflepress lite for free. rating: compatibile up to: wordpress 5.3.2 get rafflepress testimonials rafflepress sky-rocketed our growth. we were able to increase our website traffic, get more social media followers, and more importantly grow our email list. the viral growth helped us reach people all around the world that would have been impossible otherwise - this is a must have growth tool! syed balkhi this is the best giveaway plugin i've seen so far! it's the perfect way to get more engagement and followers. with a small incentive this will get you ahead of your competition in no time! and it's extremely easy to use and it looks good on mobiles as it's responsive. it also works great in a popup with for instance the plugin popups using a shortcode or on a page/post with a gutenberg block. ben andersen featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.