features pricing our story login get rafflepress the best wordpress giveaway plugin grow your email list, website traffic, and social media followers with viral giveaways & contests get rafflepress now or view live example finally, a wordpress giveaway plugin that's easy and powerful rafflepress is the best wordpress giveaway plugin. here are the features that makes rafflepress the most powerful anduser-friendly wordpress contest plugin in the market. drag & drop giveaway builder easily create successful giveaway campaigns in just a few minutes without hiring a developer. viral giveaway templates start with our pre-built giveaway templates to get more subscribers, improve engagement, and grow traffic. responsive mobile friendly rafflepress giveaway widget is 100% responsive meaning it works great on mobile, tablets, and desktops. 1 click entry + fraud protection make it easy for users to enter your giveaway while eliminating fraud entries to keep your contest fair. viral sharing (refer-a-friend) automate word of mouth marketing with our refer-a-friend a.k.a. viral sharing to supercharge your growth. social media integrations rafflepress helps you grow your following on facebook, instagram, youtube, twitter, and more. marketing & crm integrations easily grow your email list. rafflepress seamlessly integrates with your favorite email marketing services & crms. giveaway landing page use our "distraction-free" and highly optmized giveaway landing page to get the best results. tracking and retargeting leverage our advanced success tracking and retargeting feature to maximize your conversion goals. rafflepress is by far the most effective wordpress giveaway plugin that i’ve used to date. love love love. eric siu - singlegrain and marketing school rafflepress is hands down, the best giveaway plugin i’ve tested. it’s intuitive, easy to use, and has all the features you need to build your audience. adam connell - blogging wizard how does rafflepress work? rafflepress helps you turn your visitors into brand ambassadors. as a result, you get more website traffic, email subscribers, and social media engagement faster without buying any paid ads! website visitors rafflepress helps you capture visitor's attention with attractive giveaways ... and what happens next is amazing. enter giveaway website visitors must use their email to enter the giveaway. benefit: grow your email list viral sharing visitors are incentivized to share the giveaway to earn entries. benefit: increased engagement supercharged growth word-of-mouth advertising helps you get more traffic, faster! benefit:more sales + revenue top 5 reasons people love rafflepress rafflepress is the perfect wordpress giveaway solution for you. here's why smart business owners, marketers, web designers, and web developers love rafflepress ... and you will too! create a giveaway campaign widget or landing page in minutes, not hours! starting a giveaway in wordpress used to be hard. rafflepress makes it easy. our wordpress giveaway plugin comes with a drag & drop builder to help you create a successful giveaway campaing in just a few minutes without writing any code. proven goal-based giveaway templates to drive huge results, fast! while our wordpress giveaway plugin is very easy to use, we created smart goal-based workflows to save you even more time. rafflepress comes with pre-built giveaway templates that are inspired by the best practices of the most successful giveaway campaigns in history, so you can get huge results, fast. verified bonus actions to help you get more social media followers and real engagement! rafflepress allow users to earn extra entries by completing bonus actions items such as "joining your facebook page" and more. unlike other wordpress giveaway plugins, we verifiy these actions using api where possible, so you can get higher quality social media followers with real engagement. built-in viral sharing to grow your website traffic without buying any ads! rafflepress get your visitors to bring you even more visitors. our built-in viral sharing feature reward users with bonus entries if they refer-a-friend, or share your giveaway on social media using their custom referral link. seamless marketing integrations to help you get more email subscribers! rafflepress seamlessly integrates with your favorite email marketing platforms like mailchimp, constant contact, aweber, drip, active campaign, and more. you can also use our zapier integration to connect with thousands of other marketing apps. grow your email list + increase engagement + generate more sales let rafflepress help you leverage the true power of viral marketing to grow your business. create a viral giveaway in minutes ... what are you waiting for? get rafflepress now need help running a succesful giveaway campaign? take a look at our rafflepress growth blog for tips & tricks on how to leverage viral marketing to grow your bussiness. how to create a successful retargeting strategy (15 easy tips) how to go viral on twitter (10 easy strategies) 28 best online sweepstakes websites to promote your contest frequently asked questions and resources do you have questions about rafflepress see the list below for our most frequently asked questions. if your question is not listed here, then please contact us. who should use rafflepress? rafflepress is perfect for business owners, marketers, bloggers, influencers, agencies, and basically anyone else who wants to grow their business with viral marketing. if you want to create a giveaway in wordpress, then you need to use rafflepress. what's required to use rafflepress? rafflepress is a wordpress plugin. in order to use rafflepress, you must have a self-hosted wordpress site. that's all. can i use rafflepress on client sites? yes, you can use rafflepress on client sites in two ways. either you can purchase a license that includes multiple sites or have the client purchase a license. (you can refer them and earn 20% commission through our affiliate program). does this work even if i have zero audience? absolutley, in fact rafflepress helps you grow your traffic. by incentivising your visitors to share your giveaways using facebook, twitter, instagram and other social media services you can create a viral feedback loop. can i connect giveaway email directly to my email newsletter service? yes, we support many built-in email service provider integrations including mailchimp, aweber, convertkit, drip, and more. plus, we support zapier, which connects with over 500 different services! so no matter what email service you use, we've got you covered. can i use rafflepress to grow my business even if i'm not technical enough? absolutley, we built rafflepress from the ground up to be the easiest and most beginner friendly giveaway and contest builder in the market! 105 proven contest prize ideas for viral giveaways 11 super-effective ways to promote your contest (most are free!) how to create an online contest in 8 easy steps wordpress giveaways we were tired of the bloated and buggy wordpress giveaway plugins. we believe that you shouldn’t have to hire a developer to create a wordpress giveaway. that’s why we built rafflepress, a drag & drop wordpress giveaway builder that's both easy and powerful. with our online giveaway builder workflow, you can create responsive wordpress giveaways in 5 minutes or less. unlike other wordpress giveaway plugins, our wordpress giveaway builder saves your entries in your website database, so you have always have access to your data. our wordpress giveaway builder also offers pro actions, email integration, and other advanced features that you would expect from the leading wordpress giveaway plugin. wordpress contests rafflepress aims to be the best wordpress contest plugin in the market. unlike other wordpress contest plugins, rafflepress comes with a 100% drag & drop wordpress contest builder, so you can easily create any type of wordpress contest ranging from a simple wordpress contest to more advanced wordpress contests with, multiple winners, mandatory entires, daily entries and more. all entries are stored in your wordpress form database inside your website, so you are always in full control of your data. rafflepress wordpress contest plugin is the best contest plugin for wordpress. you can use our wordpress contest tutorial to create your online contest in minutes! grow your business with viral giveaway and contests let rafflepress helps you leverage the true power of viral marketing to grow your email list, website traffic, and social media follows ... what are you waiting for? get rafflepress now company about press contact affiliates blog helpful links documentation support start a blog create an online contest proven contest prize ideas proven contest promotion ideas our brands optinmonster wpforms monsterinsights seedprod trustpulse isitwp copyright © 2020 seedprod llc. rafflepress™ is a trademark of seedprod llc terms & conditions | privacy policy | sitemap | rafflepress coupon code