skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: random musings a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on mar 12, 2020 posted in: personal essay, random musings my city feels strangely still right now. i normally hear the sounds from the elementary school nearby, or people walking their dogs, the swish of cars driving by on the street. but it’s oddly quiet at the moment, the only sound the squawking from a few irritable crows whose life mission is to make sure… keep reading i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on feb 24, 2020 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings harvey weinstein was found guilty today on some (but not all) of the charges brought against him by the state of new york. and i find this unbelievable, not because i believed in his innocence in any measure, but because i believe in the ability – as old as history and time itself – of… keep reading anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on feb 14, 2020 posted in: random musings, steal this idea people are always surprised when i tell them rand and i don’t really celebrate valentine’s day. i mean, we used to. but dear lord, it was always so, so much, and it always felt a little weird and uncomfortable and forced, even if it lead to some of my favorite photos, ever: … keep reading why aren’t you blogging, and other hard questions posted on feb 13, 2020 posted in: random musings, writing every now and then i get a well-meaning email or facebook message from a reader. i’ve noticed, they will write, and i can practically feel the gentle trepidation as they do so, that you seem to have fallen off the planet and are living the life of a hermit. and not even a *good* hermit? like, you… keep reading i write about mice but actually anxiety. posted on sep 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings it’s funny, the things that finally set you off. like, i’ve always presumed that i was a relatively hinged person, but here i am, utterly unhinged. for some of you, this will be unsurprising. some of you will be thinking, “geraldine, you were never hinged. you have fewer hinges than a sliding door.” and i… keep reading 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on jul 30, 2019 posted in: life at home, loving the entrepreneur, nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings my husband turned 40 at the beginning of july. i wanted a bacchanalian celebration, cake and lights and streamers and swarms of people, forgetting entirely that this milestone wasn’t about me. the realization would hit me eventually, before too much planning had occurred: he didn’t want a big to-do. nor did he want, he insisted,… keep reading happy 10th anniversary to this weird blog posted on jul 9, 2019 posted in: random musings, site news ten years. it’s been ten years since i started this blog. ten years since rand accidentally named this site because he misheard me when i suggested “the everywhere list”. ten years since we registered the domain. a decade of writing posts – some good, some utterly embarrassing, some very, very outdated. the wormhole created by… keep reading i tweeted about the joker being a woman who was tired of this shit and it now feels auto-biographical posted on jun 4, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, random musings recently my twitter replies were doused in gasoline and set alight. it’s been both somewhat alarming and interesting. (uncontrollable, raging fires usually are.) i wrote this tweet in the lobby of a hotel in downtown seattle after i’d had a day. an exhausting, emotionally draining day filled with some of the more intense stuff you… keep reading i have a james beard award and i think you are so great. posted on may 6, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay, random musings, site news, writing my writing pitches don’t get accepted often. sometimes an editor will contact me directly, and i’ll send them a piece, and if it gets published, it may do quite well (my piece on bullying for the washington post was an example of that), but it rarely gets to that point. more often than not, i’ll… keep reading posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 50 next page about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.