avocadu healthy from the inside out blog gut-14 probiotics resources about login start my 21-day challenge! weight loss yoga healthy living recipes supplements 21-day challenge yoga fat loss bible get the 21-day fat loss challenge free training guide! start your journey to losing 10-21 pounds in just 21 days... get my free guide! you are here: home / weight loss / rapid weight loss: lose 10 pounds in 10 days (diet + workout + new you) july 26, 2019 by avocadu leave a comment this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. rapid weight loss: lose 10 pounds in 10 days (diet + workout + new you) 28shares can it be done? 10 pounds in 10 days? yes, without a doubt. but it will take a measure of effort and a greater measure of perseverance. but before we go any further, let me preface this by qualifying what i mean by losing 10 pounds in 10 days. many of you are probably rolling your eyes and thinking “that’s not possible.” you absolutely can lose 10 pounds in 10 days. we know because our clients in our weight loss challenge do it all the time! but technically, we aren’t talking about dropping 10 pounds of pure body fat. but i can also tell you that you aren’t carrying around a full 10 pounds of water weight… the first 1-5 pounds lost will always be water weight. but that water weight and belly bloat still needs to go! and once it’s gone and you’re consistently eating foods that don’t cause belly bloat and water weight, the rest of the weight lost will be fat! let’s talk about how to start burning that fat! rapid weight loss: start with your diet before we jump right into what you should do to change your diet, let’s start with a few key things you should do first. this first step is absolutely vital to dropping weight super quickly in just one week. the most important thing you can do for rapid weight loss is to start with a detox. what kind of detox? it’s nothing too scary, but it will take some energy and willpower, especially if you’re addicted to carbs (and if you’re here, that’s probably a yes). processed carbohydrates wreak havoc on your insulin and hormones—enough that it can make weight loss nearly impossible for some if they don’t start out with a detox. and this isn’t just about sugar. it’s about bread, pasta, and all of the other processed carbs out there. your body needs a reset before it can be ready to start losing weight. the best part of going through this carb detox stage is that you basically turn yourself into a fat burning machine since it will help to get your metabolism working again. another benefit of eliminating cards (temporarily) is the almost immediate reduction of water weight and bloating. this is what we discussed earlier. but the water weight is just the beginning, you will still start burning fat–and quickly! and don’t worry… we’re not suggesting you can’t ever eat carbs again. see how you feel after the detox. you might be so stoked about your rapid weight loss that you want to maintain a low carb lifestyle–at least until you reach your weight loss goals. so what can you eat? as much as you want of the good stuff! we’re not talking about a low-calorie, starvation diet here, folks! that’s the beauty of healthy eating. if you are eating the right foods, you can generally eat as much as you want! whole foods. what do i mean by whole foods? real food. fresh fruit and vegetables. from mother nature. no frankenfoods. nothing that has been processed or has words on the label you need a degree in chemistry to understand. and no… pasta sauce does not count as a tomato. whole foods are nutrient dense and provide tons of great fiber to aid in the digestion–further banishing belly bloat! processed foods are high in sodium and artificial ingredients that lead to excess water weight and fat storage. and if you pair these healthy vegetables with high-quality proteins, you will end up eating less and feeling more full at mealtimes. quality proteins. fun fact: you can down 700 calories of chips in about 6 minutes. but have you ever tried to eat 700 calories of a plain chicken breast? that’s a little over 4 chicken breasts… you can’t do it. you’d be sick. but you can probably double the calories in the chips above and still not feel sick (or full). remember the last time you sat down to a plate of pasta or some other carb dense meal and eaten way more than you should have? this happens often because you never got the signal from your brain that says, “okay, i’m feeling satiated. it’s time to stop eating.” that doesn’t happen when you eat a balanced meal of whole foods and quality proteins. it is very hard to stuff yourself when you eat whole, unprocessed, nutrient-dense foods because the nutrients will tell your body that it has had enough. that plate of spaghetti, while quite delicious, doesn’t have those nutrients, so your body doesn’t tell you to stop. so along with your veggies, add good healthy proteins like chicken, turkey, and lean beef. and if you can get grass fed, all the better. seafood like salmon and halibut are also excellent choices. veggie omelets are also a great idea for breakfast! rapid weight loss: get moving yes, we’re talking about exercise, and i can hear your grumbling from here. hold up on that. i think you’re going to like what i have to say. first of all, you don’t need to exercise to lose 10 pounds in 10 days. our clients do it all the time because we don’t require exercise on our fast weight loss plan. that’s intentional–because diet is far more important than exercise when it comes to weight loss. that being said, if you want to lose more weight in your short timeframe, it helps to get yourself moving. it just means more calories burned, and the more calories you burn, the faster you lose weight. (2) lose weight in 10 days by: increasing your general activity now, if you’re a regular gym-goer, i’m not going to tell you to stop. or if you love running, keep running! this advice is more for those of you that have a bigger problem with exercise. now, remember that during this rapid weight loss phase, you’re going to be going through a pretty serious detox (depending on how deep your carb addiction goes). because of this, i generally recommend against high-impact, intense exercise. lower-impact activities like walking and yoga generally pair far better with a detox and are easier on your willpower and motivation (two other important factors for weight loss). besides going on daily walks (30+ minutes is recommended), you can try to make it a point to move more throughout the day as you’re going through your normal routine: park at the back of the lot at the grocery store take the stairs. always. (unless it’s like 40 flights–that’s just crazy) do a deep clean of your house (that counts as moving!) reorganize your closets–all of them! are you sitting at a desk all day long? how about sourcing some desk exercises? they are easy enough to find, not to mention easy to do. don’t tell anyone, but i’m working out my glutes while i type this! 😜 check this out: 10 minute office yoga at your desk. depending on how long your breaks are at work, get up and move whenever you can. go for a walk. how close do you live to work? can you walk there? cycle? how about dancing when you’re doing housework? not that housework brings you such joy you need to break out and dance but think of the extra calories you’re burning. that should make you dance! what i’m suggesting here are simple lifestyle changes that anyone can pull off. and this list i’ve provided is by no means complete. whatever, however, you can do to get your body in motion, do it. but if you do want something more… lose weight fast: up your exercise game there is no question that exercise, especially weight training, will help burn fat and reach your goals faster. and don’t think you need to work out at the gym if that intimidates you. you could pick up a mat, some dumbbells, or maybe a kettlebell (here are some exercises), or resistance bands on amazon and do your own thing at home. yoga is also a fantastic choice and can help you build some flexibility, which helps with aches and pains on your overworked joints. any form of resistance training helps you build muscle which in turn helps burn more calories. an added bonus of a full-body weight training workout is that it will help reduce your body’s stores of carbs and water weight. (3) if you can handle it, you should include high-intensity interval training (hiit) as well. this is a training strategy that has you alternating between short, intense aerobic sessions and less intense recovery sessions. some studies on hiit indicate that just a 5 to 10 minutes session can be better for you than 5 minutes of any other regular exercise. so if you can actually live through that intense 5 minute hiit period, it’s worth it, right? anyway, these are just some general ideas if you want some more intense exercise, but like i said before… if you do nothing else, focus 100% of your efforts on changing your diet. you will reap far better rewards for your efforts! let’s recap so we’ve learned that in order to quickly lose 10 pounds in 10 days you’ll need to do the following: detox from carbs and sugars. eat lots of whole foods. eat quality proteins. get more active. walk, take the stairs, dance while you vacuum, whatever. start working out (if you so desire). are you still wondering how you can put all of this together in a plan that actually works? as i mentioned earlier, we have thousands of clients doing our 21 day fat loss challenge. it will not only show you how to lose 10 pounds in 10 days, but it will also show you how to continue losing weight–for all 21 days and beyond! if you’ve been struggling to lose weight for some time now, i promise you that you won’t regret giving our challenge a try! and if you enjoyed this article on rapid weight loss or have any questions for us, please feel free to leave a comment below! we’d love to hear from you! the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts lauren mcmanus hey y'all! my name is lauren and i pretty much run the show over here at avocadu! we believe in quality over quantity and that diet is everything when it comes to your health and well-being. in short, we believe in being healthy from the inside out. latest posts by lauren mcmanus (see all) weight loss bullet journal – how to use your bullet journal to lose weight - august 5, 2019 6 ways to use meditation to lose weight - july 29, 2019 phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? - july 22, 2019 28shares this post may contain affiliate links. please read our disclosure for more info. filed under: weight loss get the free 21-day training guide! jumpstart your weight loss with this free fast fat loss training! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. get my free guide! powered by convertkit leave a reply subscribe notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments how jennifer lost 78.4 lbs with a healthy diet and support system phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? hey, y'all! i'm lauren! i'm so excited you're here! at avocadu, we believe in quality over quantity and that diet is everything when it comes to your health and well-being. in short, we believe in being healthy from the inside out. learn more → recent posts weight loss bullet journal – how to use your bullet journal to lose weight 6 ways to use meditation to lose weight phentermine for weight loss: does it work and is it safe? rapid weight loss: lose 10 pounds in 10 days (diet + workout + new you) how jennifer lost 78.4 lbs with a healthy diet and support system categories blog healthy living recipes supplements weight loss yoga copyright © 2020 · disclaimer · privacy policy · comment policy · terms & conditions · contact · the new grind llc dba avocadu.com is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com.wpdiscuz 28shares 28