rara theme home themes premium wordpress themes free wordpress themes business wordpress themes feminine wordpress themes magazine/blog wordpress themes education wordpress themes landing page wordpress themes one page wordpress themes multilingual wordpress themes theme club support documentation youtube channel support ticket hire a customizer affiliates sign up don’t want to write code to create your website? you don’t have to. our themes enable you to quickly and easily create your beautiful websites. view our themes our premium wordpress themes travel agency pro view details education zone pro view details rara business pro view details construction landing page pro view details benevolent pro view details spa and salon pro view details lawyer landing page pro view details metro magazine pro view details preschool and kindergarten pro view details view all themes 8 reasons to choose us our wordpress themes do not require you to know any programming skills and allows you to easily control your website without ever touching a line of code. having trouble? need help? our friendly and dedicated support staff is ever ready to quickly solve any issue and make sure that your website is up and running without a hitch no matter what your experience level is. we test and continuously work towards using the optimal codes to make sure that your site is blazing fast to offer a great user experience for your visitors and higher search rank among your competitors. we understand the importance of seo for your website. our themes are built using the best seo practices in the industry, so that your site can effortlessly rise to the top of the search engine. easily install and set up your website with the easy to understand theme documentation and video guide which you can refer to any time for help with theme features. we make sure that our theme is lightweight with efficiently written code and sufficient useful features. we do not overwhelm the theme with impeding features and functions that you will never use. we put years of experience and endless thought into designing each of our themes to ensure that you have a great looking website offering a great user experience and maximum performance. use of mobile devices for browsing is increasing rapidly. to make sure you aren’t missing out, all our themes are designed to look and work well on any mobile devices and tablets ensuring a great user experience in any device. start exploring and discover our wordpress themes browse our themes now customers support ticket documentation licensing policy help and support policy refund policy translation hire a customizer terms & conditions premium themes numinous pro elegant pink pro business one page pro kalon pro the minimal benevolent pro halcyon pro spa and salon pro travel diaries pro terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy advertisement advertise with rara theme address hadigaun, kathmandu bagmati, 44600, nepal copyright © 2020 rara theme. all rights reserved. by continuing to use the site, you agree to the use of cookies. more information accept the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close