skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged react it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 115 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article march 23, 2020 building a real-time chat app with react and firebase author deven rathore 2 comments join conversation in this article, we’ll cover key concepts for authenticating a user with firebase in a real-time chat application. we’ll integrate third-party auth providers (e.g. google, twitter and github) and, once users are signed in, we’ll learn how to store user chat data in the firebase realtime database, where we can sync data with a nosql cloud database.… read article “building a real-time chat app with react and firebase” authentication firebase react article march 19, 2020 react suspense in practice author adam rackis 1 comment join conversation this post is about understanding how suspense works, what it does, and seeing how it can integrate into a real web app. we'll look at how to integrate routing and data loading with suspense in react. for routing, i'll be using vanilla javascript, and i'll be using my own micro-graphql-react graphql library for data.… read article “react suspense in practice” react react suspense link march 4, 2020 what react does (and doesn’t do) shared by chris coyier with a name as big as react, it's bound to cause some stream-crossing confusion, as i like to call it. how do you center a <div> in react? dave ceddia: react cares exactly zero about styling. think of it as generating the barebones html. react will put elements on the page, but everything after that is the job of css: how they appear, what they look like, how they’re positioned, and how centered or uncentered they are. “how … read article “what react does (and doesn’t do)” our notes / read at daveceddia.com react article march 4, 2020 how we created a static site that generates tartan patterns in svg author paulina hetman 8 comments join conversation tartan is a patterned cloth that’s typically associated with scotland, particularly their fashionable kilts. on tartanify.com, we gathered over 5,000 tartan patterns (as svg and png files), taking care to filter out any that have explicit usage restrictions. the idea was cooked up by sylvain guizard during our summer holidays in scotland. at the very beginning, we were thinking of building the pattern library manually in some graphics software, like adobe illustrator or sketch. but that was before we discovered … read article “how we created a static site that generates tartan patterns in svg” gatsby pattern react svg article march 2, 2020 considerations for creating a card component author chris coyier 5 comments join conversation even a simple card component can be tricky to design an api around. what abstraction are you providing? how much control do you want to give? if you make it too flexible, you aren't providing much value. if you make it to rigid, you also aren't providing much value. architecture components react article february 13, 2020 why javascript is eating html author mike turley 59 comments join conversation web development is always changing. one trend in particular has become very popular lately, and it fundamentally goes against the conventional wisdom about how a web page should be made. it is exciting for some but frustrating for others, and the reasons for both are difficult to explain. a web page is traditionally made up of three separate parts with separate responsibilities: html code defines the structure and meaning of the content on a page, css code defines its appearance, … read article “why javascript is eating html” html-in-js react syntax article february 11, 2020 the hooks of react router author agney menon 4 comments join conversation react router 5 embraces the power of hooks and has introduced four different hooks to help with routing. you will find this article useful if you are looking for a quick primer on the new patterns of react router. but before we look at hooks, we will start off with a new route rendering pattern.… read article “the hooks of react router” react react hooks react router link january 29, 2020 apollo graphql without javascript shared by chris coyier it's cool to see progressive enhancement being done even while using the fanciest of the fancy front-end technologies. this is a button in a jsx react component that has a click handler applied directly to it that fires a data mutation ajax request through apollo graphql. that is about the least friendly environment for progressive enhancement i can imagine. hugo giraudel writes that they do server-side rendering already, so the next tricky part is the click handler. without javascript, the … read article “apollo graphql without javascript” our notes / read at hugogiraudel.com apollo graphql progressive enhancement react link january 15, 2020 debunking the myth: accessibility and react shared by chris coyier i find it notable when the blog of a major accessibility-focused company like deque publishes an article called debunking the myth: accessibility and react. mark steadman is essentially saying if a site has bad accessibility, it ain't react... it's you. the tools are there to achieve good accessibility. react didn't use a <div></div> for a <button></button>, you did. react didn't force extra markup all over the page when you decided to not use a fragment. react didn't forget … read article “debunking the myth: accessibility and react” our notes / read at www.deque.com accessibility react article december 20, 2019 how to get the current page url in gatsby author dmitry mayorov 11 comments join conversation this seemingly simple task had me scratching my head for a few hours while i was working on my website. as it turns out, getting the current page url in gatsby is not as straightforward as you may think, but also not so complicated to understand. let’s look at a few methods of making it happen. but first, you might be wondering why on earth we’d even want to do something like this.… read article “how to get the current page url in gatsby” gatsby react react helmet 1 2 3 ... 12 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers