home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog world cup, surgery date & real estate july 14, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy monday! first off...congrats to germany for winning the world cup!!!!! their team was just amazing to watch this year. they were such a power house. i feel so bad for argentina though. if you watched the end of the game, you probably saw the defeated look in their faces after they lost. i love watching the awards and celebrations but it's also so sad to see the … [read more...] the itchy and crappy show may 12, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment what a weekend. what a weekend.... i'm just going to warn you..there's a lot of grossness and creepiness in this post. i warned you. for reals. friday i finally had my mri for my neck problems. i went to proscan imaging. it was my first time having an mri so i was a bit nervous. i wasn't as nervous for being claustrophobic as i was for the fact i had about … [read more...] back issues, real estate & some clean eats april 30, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past 4 years, i've known that this week was pretty much going to be the busiest week of my life and i was right. i have never been this busy. we are at a huge transition at work so i'm working tons of overtime, i'm getting ready for my best friend's wedding in chicago next weekend and i'm busy with a ton of real estate stuff. to be honest, i haven't had time to … [read more...] rehabbing properties is quite a workout!! april 1, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments lately i have learned that you really don't need to go to the gym to get a good workout. all you have to do is buy some rental properties that need a complete gut job and you'll find more than enough ways to get a good workout in! i'm so sore. for the past 3 days, we have been gutting one of our rental properties so we can finally start the rehab on it. we filled … [read more...] how blogging bought me a house january 29, 2014 by erin weiss 4 comments i have some very exiting and interesting news for you guys today. as most of you know, i purchased my first investment home in october. we are working on fixing it up and then renting it to college students in may. the one part of the story i haven't shared with you guys yet is that... i bought my house through blogging!!! let me explain more about how this all happened … [read more...] my crazy busy diy life in real estate october 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment it's been an insane week..once again. i have only been able to squeeze in a couple workouts at lunch and it's kinda driving me nuts. i hate how i feel when i'm not working out regularly but sometimes i just can't go as much as i'd like to. that's life! i'm going to rewind back to last weekend..wow that feels like forever ago! we headed to chicago to my dad's house on … [read more...] meet my new house! september 20, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments last night was a big day for me. i bought an investment property! how cute is this little house??? i plan on buying it and then renting it out. i'm so excited :) all this searching finally paid off. now let's just hope i can close on the house with no issues! we went out last night to celebrate a little. we ate at texas roadhouse and then had a couple … [read more...] fitness and real estate july 31, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments first off, i need to say happy hump day (aka pump day). that geico commercial is still my favorite commercial of all time. i don't know if anything will ever beat it. i laugh every time i see it. "mike..mike..mike...what day is it? hummmpp dayyyyy!!!!!" (if you haven't seen it, look it up on youtube!) the last two weeks have been insanely busy for me. i've been trying … [read more...] cagefighting, landlording, and surfing oh my! july 22, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment how cute are our new his and hers mugs??? i'm in love with these. i got them at marshall's over the weekend. that store is like a target to me...it's hard to leave without something! friday night was a first for me. we knew someone who was in a cage fight so we went to watch it. i absolutely hate fighting so it was a bit scary for me but the guy who we were going to see … [read more...] my experiences with flipping houses may 18, 2012 by erin weiss 6 comments happy friday!!!! the weekend is finally here and i don't have anything planned as of yet. these kind of weekends have become my favorite lately :) i set a goal for myself to go to the gym before work this morning. i set my alarm for 5am, had my stuff all packed up and even slept in my gym clothes last night. my alarm went off at 5am and i walked to the bathroom to brush … [read more...] popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in