skip to content skip to content menu start here blog podcast about categories ideas online business blogging self-publishing freelancing service businesses consulting coaching ecommerce amazon fba investing real estate peer-to-peer lending saving money hustle 101 productivity progress reports real estate real estate investing comes in many different flavors, including: wholesaling (often no money down) traditional buy-and-hold rental properties fix-and-flips vacation rentals raw land investing i’m even experimenting with fundrise (affiliate link), a crowdsourced commercial real estate investing platform. which one is best depends on your goals, available time and money to invest, and risk tolerance. for example, while i love the idea of building a mini real estate empire and having tenants pay off my mortgages, the direct cash returns and the risks involved don’t get me that excited. at least for the moment, i’ve steered toward some more passive real estate investing options. check out these real estate-themed posts and podcast episodes and choose which strategy makes the most sense for you. passive real estate investing: build cash flow and equity – without the sweat! december 3, 2019december 3, 2019 real estate investing is perhaps one of the oldest side hustles in existence. buy a house, rent it out, and build wealth. it’s a tried and true formula, and certainly a way to stop trading time for money. this idea was popularized by books like rich dad poor dad, explaining (often with real estate as an example) how you can “escape the rat race” when income from assets you control exceeds your monthly expenses. but real estate investing comes in many different “flavors” — and some take more time and money than others to get started with. 3 comments 358: house hacking 101: live free and turn your biggest expense into a profit center december 3, 2019october 24, 2019 what if you could make your rent or mortgage payment go away? or, what if instead of paying that expense every month, your living situation actually paid you? it’s not as far-fetched as it may sound. in fact, that’s exactly what today’s guest, craig curelop, has done by intentionally “house hacking” over the past few years. 2 comments 350: is real estate your next income stream? rental property q & a december 3, 2019august 29, 2019 buy a house. rent it out. tenants pay it off for you. it’s possibly one of the oldest side hustles in the books, right? done right, owning rental properties can be an attractive long-term income and wealth-building strategy. but done wrong, it can be a recipe for headaches and a mountain of debt. 2 comments 330: land flipping revisited: from zero to $10,000 a month on the side march 16, 2020april 11, 2019 roberto chavez started his raw land flipping side hustle a little over a year ago, and with persistence, has already built it into 5-figures of monthly revenue. this is a business model that was first introduced to me by mark podolsky, from thelandgeek.com, in episode 108 of the side hustle show. he called it “the best passive income model” because it avoids “the 3 t’s” of traditional real estate investing: tenants, toilets, and termites. 12 comments 292: free houses: how to build a $1 million real estate portfolio on the side december 10, 2019july 19, 2018 austin miller built a $1.2 million real estate portfolio at 31 years old — for free. he’s a side hustling real estate investor specializing in “creative” financing deals — houses he can buy without using his own money. 4 comments 280: how to start a bounce house rental business (investing in “inflatable” real estate) november 6, 2018april 26, 2018 corey jeffreys turned an $800 investment into $3k in the first year and has been growing his business and adding more automated processes each year. his entrepreneurial adventure began by exploring the world of real estate investing, when he happened upon a slightly different rental business model: inflatable bounce houses. 3 comments 258: 20% cash on cash in mobile home park investing? the real estate side hustle you probably hadn’t considered october 10, 2018november 23, 2017 it’s like owning a parking lot, jefferson lilly explained. and you can earn 20% cash on cash returns too. that got my attention, though those returns are coming from a surprising real estate niche: mobile home parks. 3 comments 247: how to shortcut your financial freedom with short-term rentals ($15k a month, part-time) january 31, 2019september 14, 2017 zeona mcintyre is earning $12-18k a month through her portfolio of vacation rental properties and her “co-hosting” service for other property owners. all this has afforded zeona financial independence at a very young age, as she built her operation largely by piggybacking on the growing popularity of airbnb. 3 comments 222: 5 real estate side hustles you can start on the cheap december 3, 2019march 23, 2017 chad carson is a 30-something semi-retired real estate mogul, who together with his business partner, oversees a portfolio of 90+ rental units. in fact, he and his wife are in the middle of an exciting adventure — a year abroad in ecuador with their two daughters. but of course he didn’t start there. fresh off the football field at clemson, chad’s real estate career started more modestly by “bird dogging” and house hacking — two of the tactics he shares in this week’s show. 3 comments 169: the best passive income model: raw land investing update (part 2) december 10, 2019april 15, 2016 this is the second in what will (at least) be a 2-part series on side hustlers earning income from their land investment endeavors. in this special friday edition of the show, i’m joined by chris pritchard. chris is a software developer by day, but has built his land investing business up to $1500/mo in recurring revenue. in addition, chris does the occasional cash flip and also has more than $70,000 worth of land payments under contract. not bad for a year of dedicated focus and effort! leave a comment post navigation older posts 1 2 next → search for: join the nation! free report reveals the 5 fastest ways to make more money! i'm a hustler! greatest hits 99 side hustle business ideas you can start today 200+ ways to make extra money in your spare time 25 ways i make passive income + 46 more ideas that actually work how to start a blog [free 6-part video course] credit card rewards 101: how to earn free cash and travel by spending smarter my tedx talk: and the story behind it. usually hustling, occasionally social contact books write for us sponsor media terms of use | privacy | disclaimer | ccpa | do not sell my personal information © 2020 sidehustlenation.com we use cookies to to make sure you have the best experience on our website. cool?ok