skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: real estate escrow 101: what you need to know escrow is simpler than you might expect, and it’s key in real estate transactions. image: worldwide/shutterstock when you buy a house, you basically have to learn a whole new language. between figuring things out with your mortgage lender and navigating the results of the home inspection, you&… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in moving watch out, sellers: are you making any of these 4 home selling mistakes? selling your home can be an emotional process. what makes it even tougher is that it’s also a business decision, one where it’s unwise to let your emotions run the show. doing so can lead to making a mistake that could potentially cost you your ideal buyer. with that in… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving buyer beware! 4 house hunting mistakes to avoid if you want to find your dream home looking for your dream home is tricky. especially if you’ve never been through the home buying process before, it can be easy to make missteps or to get caught up in small details that really don’t make much difference. with that in mind, we’re here to… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving these are the 4 foolproof signs you’re ready to stop renting and become a homeowner at some point in our lives, most of us will stop renting and become a homeowner. the question is, how does one know when it’s a good time to take that leap? if you’ve been thinking about taking the plunge and buying a home recently, you’ve come to the right… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in home / insurance getting ready to sell? these 5 small repairs make a big difference when showing your home when it comes time to prepare your home for sale, you want to ensure it’s in the best possible shape by the time you show it. this way, when a potential buyer asks about the property’s condition, they know it is ready to be sold without much work left to… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving the seller’s guide to finding a buyer: what not to do when listing your home when it comes to listing your home, you want everything to go smoothly. if you make a mistake during the listing process, you might end up getting less than your home is worth or find that it takes significantly longer to sell your home than it should. to stay ahead… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving question time: these are the top questions to ask during an open house attending open houses can be a lot of fun. after all, how often do you get a chance to tour other people’s houses without restriction? however, when you’re serious about buying a home, it’s time to start asking the serious questions, so that you can leave the open… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving are you actually ready to buy a house? ask yourself these 3 questions first have you been thinking about buying a home recently? if so, you’ve probably asked yourself time and time again whether or not you’re actually ready to buy. after all, deciding to become a homeowner is a huge commitment. it makes sense to want to be certain before taking the plunge. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in home / insurance 4 apartment hunting red flags that should have you running the other way apartment hunting, especially online, is easy – maybe a little bit too easy. while the internet and print ads can be great sources for connecting people with housing that fits their needs, they can also be a breeding ground for scammers who are looking to take your hard-earned money. by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in inspiration moving red flags: 4 signs you’re working with bad movers (and what to do about them) beware of red flags indicating bad movers. image: hubley design interiors, llc moving is stressful enough on its own. no one needs the added headache that comes along with hiring bad movers: those who are out to rip you off or steal your belongings. however,… by tara mastroeni on march 4, 2020 in moving 1 2 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss