home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home augmented reality, virtual reality real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr by kelly walsh - june 14, 2017 67 share facebook twitter i'm attending ub tech 2017 as i write this. over the last few days, i've been enjoying lot of great breakout sessions, some good keynotes, learning about new and evolving offerings from vendors, and of course, meeting new colleagues and networking. yesterday i attending a session titled, “real applications of virtual and augmented reality in education”, delivered by ben fineman. fineman is the net+ program manager for internet2, where he helps to manage internet2's portfolio of cloud based video, voice, and collaboration solutions. he is a respected topic expert who speaks regularly at various national and international academic conferences. in his session he focused more on schools using virtual reality (versus augmented) which i thought was great since that's the area where i've really been wondering if and when it might begin to make an impact. ar has already picked up a lot since there are plenty of affordable apps, but vr can be pricey to get into, and good vr comes with heavier technology requirements. but apparently there's a lot going on in the world of education with virtual reality! a quick overview of today's virtual reality hardware fineman started with an overview of these technologies and some of the key players. virtual reality took what has probably been its biggest step towards public recognition when facebook bought the oculus rift, which had its consumer release in 2016. the oculus rift provides high quality vr for about $500. another popular high end offering is the htc vive, which typically costs a couple hundred dollars more. on the other end of the spectrum, there is google cardboard – dirt cheap (as in $10 – $15 or so), but the experience is pretty weak. nevertheless, many k-12 schools have been using google cardboard as an affordable introduction to the world of vr. some other offerings include the gear vr (2015), which also uses the phone, but provides a much better experience than cardboard, and playstation x, a proprietary offering that requires you to have a playstation. windows 10 vr is just starting to ship (or should soon), so that may become another player in the market. to provide some sense of the scale of sales of these devices, fineman noted that gear vr sold 2.3 million units in 2016 vs 355,000 oculus rift. fineman also noted that ar and vr are, “different ends of the same spectrum”. in 2016, the gartner hype cycle, which uses a set of phases to describe the life cycle of new technologies, showed ar falling into the “trough of disillusionment”, while virtual reality was just climbing out of it. applications fineman went on to offer examples of applications and ways that schools are using them, sprinkling in specific examples of schools doing this. if you are interested in vr as an instructional application, there are good examples here. virtual fields trips the arlington science focus school in arlington, va is using the oculus rift to take their students on virtual field trips to places like the the smithsonian museum (the smithsonian actually has a bunch of different virtual tours, using a variety of technologies) titans of space offers a tour of the solar system, great for some science classes google expeditions is getting a lot of attention with their growing library of field trips go back to the time to the jurassic age (search “jurassic age virtual reality” to find a variety of apps) another interesting example was college students identifying hazards on a job site using vr, avoiding having to be in a dangerous situation in order to learn content creation gaelscoil eoghain ui thuairisc school in carlow, ireland is recreating historic sites with mission v 3d modeling software drury university in springfield, mo has been teaching architecture design using virtual reality tools special education the jackson school in victoria, australia has been using the oculus rift to help students with special needs silesian university of technology in silesia poland is doing therapeutic exercises with autistic students using virtual reality technology medical uses chu angers university hospital in europe is stimulating patients brain during a medical procedure case western reserve is using vr to teach virtual anatomy (you can do a lot of things with vr that you can’t do with cadavers) recruiting virtual campus tours available on the web are being evolved to work on augmented reality platforms. a couple popular platforms for this are you visit and georama. the university of michigan is using vr to let potential football playing students experience what it's like to experience being on the field in a full stadium. new pedagogies mendel grammar school in opava city, czech republic is teaching students about the anatomy of the eye in biology classes with the oculus rift st. john’s school boston, massachusetts is using minecraft and vr to create immersive experiences penn state university in pennsylvania is training students to do things in the virtual world as a precursor to doing it in the real world, increasing the efficacy of learning university of british columbia in vancouver is experimenting with virtual lecture halls while wrapping up his fascinating presentation, fineman discussed the evolving potential for vr and ar as a collaboration technology using avatars and mapped facial expressions. as another example of the future of ar, he mentioned microsoft's developing holoportation applications, which can allow people to holographically “teleport” and interact. clearly the future of augmented reality in education is very exciting and full of potential. we are only at the dawn of this powerful technology – i can't wait to see what is to come! fineman suggested that interested people join this internet2 metaverse working group to participate in an ongoing dialogue about these evolving technologies: bit.ly/mv-wg. the original presentation is available here: bit.ly/ubtech-vr. related posts 5 steps to get started with google cardboard vr viewer in your classroom virtual reality applications: poised to transform the learning experience check out how these teachers and students are using augmented reality 9 amazing augmented reality apps for teaching and learning share facebook twitter tweet previous articlejune app ed review roundup: giving instructional tools a summer tryout! next articlecome explore the flipped learning network podcast: ask the fln kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 67 comments printer not activated error code 20 march 18, 2020 at 7:22 am thanks for this. i really like what you\’ve posted here and wish you the best of luck with this blog! redwap november 10, 2019 at 8:16 am about 16 percent of the 3,800 students in danvers public schools get services because they have disabilities. virtual reality is becoming an increasingly important tool for serving them. while the use of vr in schools has been growing in recent years, thanks in part to more affordable resources, danvers is becoming a leader in finding applications of vr that help students with disabilities. vr in special ed – terilla – exceptional learner september 16, 2019 at 6:33 pm […] with kids that have learning disabilities. i dug a little deeper and found an article called “real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr”. the article goes into how it’s hard to incorporate vr in schools due to cost, and that the […] virtual reality and augmented reality in retail market 2019 precise – virtual reality news july 29, 2019 at 5:13 am […] and foremost, vr games are a lot more interactive than regular games used in the classrooms. the children can interact a […] tribeca film festival: virtual reality leaves viewers immersed – virtual reality news may 5, 2019 at 1:19 am […] and foremost, vr games are a lot more interactive than regular games used in the classrooms. the children can interact a […] sonia gupta march 28, 2019 at 4:55 am great article! virtual reality in education is indeed a big move. good to see education industry growing with emerging technologies. rotc uses grant for virtual reality - the pitt news january 25, 2019 at 12:10 am […] the technology’s usefulness has begun to make itself clear in other disciplines as well, such as education and […] 3. pre (second) conference: random ‘cave’ thoughts – sidra's blog january 18, 2019 at 3:29 pm […] https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/06/real-uses-of-virtual-reality-in-education-how-schools-are-usi&#8230; […] simwave.ca january 17, 2019 at 8:23 pm wearing vr headset, students can experience high-quality educational visualizations that have a positive impact on the whole learning process. vr can help students easily understand complex concepts, theories, and subjects. they are able to digest and retain complex information at a much higher rate. thank you! virtual reality app shedding light on 5 myths about virtual reality (vr) | technology for you january 2, 2019 at 3:18 am […] from retail to healthcare are experimenting with vr to solve problems and improve processes. the use of vr in educational institutions is just one among numerous cases where the technology is adding value and improving the way things […] reflections on our first conference – the cave edlab 2019 december 8, 2018 at 5:12 pm […] https://www.emergingedtech.com/2017/06/real-uses-of-virtual-reality-in-education-how-schools-are-usi&#8230; […] edinboro university of pennsylvania dissertation help november 18, 2018 at 11:59 pm pretty helpful material, much thanks for this article aadit november 14, 2018 at 5:51 am great article, its awesome seeing different ways institutions are this technology virtual reality melbourne november 5, 2018 at 11:33 am virtual reality technology can be used very effectively in the study. you can create effective simulations for the demonstration of various processes or historical events. for example, it is possible to show students how physical or chemical processes occur that cannot be shown in ordinary experiments, which will make it possible to understand and comprehend the educational material. you can also make a reconstruction of a historical event. it will be much more interesting than just reading about it. therefore, there are a lot of options for using this technology in the study. essay writing service november 3, 2018 at 12:29 am the blog article is exciting. the article explores real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr. according to the article, ar has already picked up a lot since there are lots of affordable apps, but vr can be pricey to get into, and good vr comes with heavier technology requirements. if you go through the article, you will be able to understand real uses of virtual reality in education. iicti: part ii (2) – c – y – b – e – r – i – a august 11, 2018 at 5:53 pm […] emergingedtech: real uses of virtual reality in education […] my vision for the future of math education - education web july 5, 2018 at 4:20 am […] actuality is already making its means into school rooms with digital subject journey items and photo voltaic system exploration. nonetheless, as academics and colleges acquire entry to […] « older comments leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©