real smile dental nj dentist & orthodontist marketing, web design & seo think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 real smile dental marketing real smile establishes its online presence with a professional website design and search engine optimization campaign. real smile is a general dentistry practice based out of cliffside park, nj. dr. leonid rubinov dds ph.d. and his son, dr. alex rubinov dds ms are the practicing dentists and leading authorities on the temporo mandibular joint (tmj). dr. rubinov was rated top dentist in bergen county by (201) magazine. web design seo the challenge real smile had an outdated website and was not on any search engines. smartsites redesigned the website to evoke professionalism and trust, and launched a search engine optimization program to bring in more clientele. the plan redesign the website with a clean & professional layout. research and select keywords. implement onsite seo optimizations. run a 6-month link building campaign to increase search rankings. the results 0% increase in organic traffic 0% decrease in cost per click 0% decrease in cost per conversion real smile dental, located in bergen county, nj, specializes in general and cosmetic dentistry. check out real smile dental's professional website. real smile dental before & after responsive website redesign showcase smartsites designed a tablet & mobile friendly website for real smile dental. get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies real smile dental recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect