skip to content college info geek real productivity: how to build habits that last menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search real productivity: how to build habits that last building habits isn’t just about discipline; there are real-world steps you can take to set yourself up for success and keep yourself on track! in this highly entertaining step-by-step class, you’ll learn: how to set reasonable and realistic goals what to do to reach them how to handle failure without giving up thomas’ favorite habit tracking and reflection systems a better understanding of habit formation, and how to take ownership of yours hit the ground running (for fifteen minutes at a time, at first) this year. no matter where you are in life, school, or your career, this class will provide you with the understanding and structure to go after your goals with gusto — and achieve them! since this course is on skillshare, you can take it for free! sign up through this link or any of the others on this page and you’ll get two full months of skillshare access to take this course and any of the other thousands of courses available. start changing your habits more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.