home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads an illustrated celebration of how books touch and transform us jane goodall’s lovely letter to children about how reading shaped her life hope in the dark: rebecca solnit on the redemptive radiance of the world’s invisible revolutionaries labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us “some books are toolkits you take up to fix things, from the most practical to the most mysterious, from your house to your heart, or to make things, from cakes to ships. some books are wings… some books are medicine, bitter but clarifying.” by maria popova galileo considered reading our sole means of having superhuman powers. for kafka, a book was “the axe for the frozen sea inside us”; for anaïs nin, the alarm to awaken us from the slumber of almost-living; for gwendolyn brooks, “meat and medicine and flame and flight and flower.” since the invention of the printing press, books have fed the human animal’s irrepressible hunger for truth and meaning, and some of the most celebrated exemplars of our species have extolled reading as a pillar of our very humanity. among them is rebecca solnit — one of the most lyrical and insightful writers of our time. in her beautiful memoiristic essay about how books saved her life, solnit observed that “the object we call a book is not the real book, but its potential, like a musical score or seed.” in childhood, when life itself is pure potential, a book becomes potential squared. solnit speaks to this exquisitely in her contribution to a velocity of being: letters to a young reader (public library) — a labor of love eight years in the making, comprising 121 illustrated letters to children about why we read and how books transform us from some of the most inspiring humans in our world: artists, writers, scientists, philosophers, entrepreneurs, musicians, and adventurers whose character has been shaped by a life of reading. art by liniers for rebecca solnit’s letter from a velocity of being: letters to a young reader, edited by maria popova and claudia zoe bedrick. solnit writes: dear readers, nearly every book has the same architecture — cover, spine, pages — but you open them onto worlds and gifts far beyond what paper and ink are, and on the inside they are every shape and power. some books are toolkits you take up to fix things, from the most practical to the most mysterious, from your house to your heart, or to make things, from cakes to ships. some books are wings. some are horses that run away with you. some are parties to which you are invited, full of friends who are there even when you have no friends. in some books you meet one remarkable person; in others a whole group or even a culture. some books are medicine, bitter but clarifying. some books are puzzles, mazes, tangles, jungles. some long books are journeys, and at the end you are not the same person you were at the beginning. some are handheld lights you can shine on almost anything. the books of my childhood were bricks, not for throwing but for building. i piled the books around me for protection and withdrew inside their battlements, building a tower in which i escaped my unhappy circumstances. there i lived for many years, in love with books, taking refuge in books, learning from books a strange data-rich out-of-date version of what it means to be human. books gave me refuge. or i built refuge out of them, out of these books that were both bricks and magical spells, protective spells i spun around myself. they can be doorways and ships and fortresses for anyone who loves them. and i grew up to write books, as i’d hoped, so i know that each of them is a gift a writer made for strangers, a gift i’ve given a few times and received so many times, every day since i was six. rebecca solnit for more loveliness from a velocity of being, all proceeds from which benefit the new york public library system, peek inside the book and savor one of the most moving letters from it — a 100-year-old holocaust survivor’s true story of how a book saved actual lives — then revisit solnit on rewriting the world’s broken stories, our mightiest force of resistance, and what it means to live with lucid hope in hard times. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published january 3, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/01/03/a-velocity-of-being-rebecca-solnit/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under a velocity of beingbookschildren's booksculturelettersphilosophyrebecca solnit view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.