home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog make your own starbucks protein bistro box – so easy! september 20, 2016 by erin weiss 1 comment i am a huge fan of the quick, grab and go starbucks protein bistro box because it's filling and the macros aren't too bad nutritionally. the only thing i don't love is the price of $4.95. that means if you had one every day of the work week, it would cost you around $25 per week. seems a bit pricey to me! i wanted to recreate this starbucks protein bistro box and make … [read more...] sweet potato tots quiche recipe april 8, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment i was grocery shopping yesterday after work and found some sweet potato bites that i really wanted to try. i decided to create a recipe with them last night and it turned out pretty yummy! introducing my sweet potato tots quiche! this is a super simple recipe that only takes a few minutes of prep time. that's my kinda recipe. :) sweet potato tots quiche … [read more...] cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe march 12, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment for the past week, i've been making a new recipe that i can easily say i'm obsessed with at the moment. i've eaten it every night. every.damn.night. introducing....my cheesy and spicy sausage melt recipe. i've been counting my macros lately and i have a tendency to eat a ton of carbs during the day. when it comes time for dinner, i realize i need to catch up with my … [read more...] grinch fruit kabobs recipe december 18, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment can't figure out what to bring to your christmas party? here's an absolutely adorable idea that i'm making christmas morning. it's a cute and a healthy option. grinch fruit kabobs (hint: hover over the image to post to pinterest to remember this idea for the future!) ingredients mini marshmallows green grapes bananas - peeled and … [read more...] healthy bacon egg & cheese muffin recipe october 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment everyone loves the classic egg mcmuffin but they are just so darn unhealthy. i decided to make a clean version and i have to admit....it's pretty dang good!! yay! introducing erin's breakfast muffins!! hover over the image below to pin it to pinterest so you remember to try this recipe later! ingredients: 1 whole egg 2 egg whites 2 healthy life multi-grain … [read more...] my next goal, meal prep and an awesome shoe organizer september 15, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments you have got to check out my newest toy! it's a shoe wheel to keep my shoes organized! gosh i'm obviously getting old when i get this excited about a shoe organizer. yikes! i got the organizer here because my closet had recently turned into a big sloppy mess of shoes. i am a fitness shoe fanatic so i like to take care of them. when they are piled at the bottom of my … [read more...] the most delicious clean burrito you’ll ever eat july 3, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i made the most incredible burrito recently. i've been having one every day since. if you know me at all, you know i love mexican food. well...when i can find a clean way to prepare mexican food i'm like a little kid on christmas morning!! also note that i'm an extremely picky eater and usually my food ends up with no flavor...well that's not the case this time. this little … [read more...] a wedding, diy projects and my cheesy bacon chicken roll-up recipe june 18, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment oh hey!!! it's been a while since i posted a personal update about what i've been up to so i figured i'd do a recap of my past week. last weekend we went to a wedding out in the country in indiana. the bridal party wore cowboy boots and and the reception had horses! how cute is this little getaway car for the bride and groom? the wedding was in a beautiful tent … [read more...] chicken salad taco recipe january 8, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment tonight i hit up the grocery store and picked up a few staples. when i got home i wasn't exactly sure what i was going to have for dinner, so i came up with this little gem. introducing the chicken salad taco recipe :) ingredients: 1 can of sam's club 100% natural canned chicken. ( i know canned chicken sounds gross but sam's club actually has some great stuff!) 1 … [read more...] just dance december 19, 2012 by erin weiss leave a comment okay..i have to admit something. i'm a total nerd when it comes to new technology that can help or track my workouts. i was recently searching online while christmas shopping and found that the new just dance 4 game was out for wii!!! i have the original just dance and the michael jackson dance game...both are frickin' hilarious to play by myself or with friends. speaking of … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in