instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "recipe" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: recipe rebecca 1 min read march 3, 2019 no reply recipe: roast chicken and tomato basil pasta food, food and drink, recipes when i discover a new recipe that i instantly fall in love with, i can’t help but share it. recently, thanks to the power of random facebook videos, i discovered a quick jamie oliver recipe video where he was making a roast chicken and serving it over pasta. i stopped and watched the entire video and instantly told andy i was planning to make it. it only took me until the next grocery trip to get the ingredients. basically, he uses garlic, basil, thyme and balsamic vinegar along with some water and juice from the chicken to create this dish with simple ingredients that absolutely taste incredible. using fresh pasta, a small chicken to roast and the herbs and tomatoes meant that this was an easy dish to create on a weeknight. while it seems complicated and fancy, it ultimately was simple and relied on the ingredients to speak for themselves. you can watch the video here. it’s super quick, and while the ingredients aren’t listed, there are so few that the video along with a notepad is all you need. enjoy! rebecca 2 min read january 15, 2019 no reply recipe: my favourite fish chowder recipes i’ve often written about how much we love the east coast. and seafood. one of my most favourite things to make recently is a seafood boil (and you can find the recipe for that right here on the blog!) but a favourite comfort food at home is a simple fish chowder. it starts with a bacon base, then is built with celery, potatoes, milk, cream and fish. it’s quick, tasty, and warms us up in the cold winter months when we dreaming about getting back to the east coast in the warmth of summer. i’ve modified this michael smith clam chowder recipe to make our fish chowder. it’s basically the same, but i cook a white fish in advance and chop it up to add. here’s the recipe i typically use for fish chowder: ingredients: 2-4 slices cooked bacon (this is a great way to use up leftover breakfast bacon!) tbsp or so of olive oil 1 tbsp butter 1/2 onion, peeled and chopped 2 stalks of celery, chopped 1/3 cup white wine or water 1 cup cream 1 cup milk (if no cream, double the milk) 1 cup broth (you can also swap this for milk and just use 3 cups milk in total) 1-2 potatos, peeled and cubed 2 bay leaves thyme (about 4-6 sprigs if fresh, 1 tsp if ground) 1 tsp old bay spice (optional) salt and pepper to taste #recipe: easy to make fish chowder via @bitofmomsense click to tweet 1-2 pieces of cooked white fish directions: bake the fish with some olive oil, salt and pepper until cooked through in the oven or on the stovetop. while the fish is cooking, add olive oil, butter, bacon, chopped onion and celery on medium heat in a stovetop pot. cook until the veggies soften. add wine or water and scrape the bottom of the pot. add the cream, milk and broth. warm through. add the potato and seasoning. when the potato is soft, add the cooked fish and let simmer on low heat. check the seasoning, add more if you desire. serve with biscuits! enjoy! want more seafood? try my garlic cream mussels or have a seafood boil! rebecca 5 min read september 14, 2018 1 reply recipe: make a seafood boil parenting, recipes one of my most favourite things to make, and eat, for dinner, is seafood. when we travel to pei, it will come as no surprise that we are constantly looking for local seafood to eat at the cottage, or bites like lobster rolls and fresh oysters when we are out and about at restaurants. it’s been in our travels, to pei, florida and other locations, where our seafood boil obsessions have grown. when we find seafood boils on a menu, we tend to gravitate towards them. during our march break trip to florida, we ordered it a few times. my mom likes to laugh at us because when andy and i share a boil, there is a system in place, to ensure even distribution for all the tasty bites (naturally, just to be fair!) so i started making them at home. i have been making fish, mussels and lobster at home for sometime, but now, i can create these boils where we get bites of all our favourite pieces. recently, i hosted family for a large boil where we had multiple platters on the table and we just dug in. here’s how to make your own boil at home. i have provided the example to be for two, but, at the end, i’ve included instructions for how to multiply that when feeding a crowd. also, keep in mind that you can flavour your boil however you want – for example, if you find seasoning in your travels that you want to try, why not! have fun and enjoy it. this is a meal meant to be served family style, and for sharing, to encourage conversation and togetherness. please note – as with all my recipes, i’m mostly sharing process here. because there are a lot of times i wing amounts – but! i have made this over and over again and it’s pretty well the same process all the time! how to make a seafood boil gather your ingredients! below is what i recommend but you can swap things out! -red potatoes (halved, boiled) -corn on the cob, cut into threes, boiled -chorizo (about 2 inches, cut into chunky bites) -1 shallot, sliced -1 piece of fish (cod, red snapper etc) -2 cups of mussels (note – they are usually sold in a 2 pound bag. you can cook that entire bag separately, adding a few mussels to your boil pan, then just add the extra mussels later. use a bit of seasoning and butter with some water when steaming your mussels to help make more broth. i mention this just because it likely won’t all fit into your pan but you still want to enjoy the deliciousness!) -1 cup of pasta clams -1 cooked lobster (tail, leg and claw meat) or some cooked crab legs (optional) -butter -seasoning (i have used simply garlic and tomatoes in the past, or lately a teaspoon of old bay seasoning) -splash of oil -1 baguette -1 lemon, into quarters to prepare your seafood boil: in advance, boil the potatoes and corn (separately) but have them warm and ready to go. this will save you having to balance the cooking time for those while monitoring the fish. in a high edge pan, (cast iron works great), add some oil and when warm, at the chorizo. warm the chorizo and add the shallot. add a tbsp of butter and 1/2 or tsp of seasoning (some seasonings can be salty, so start with a little at a time) add the fish and let cook, browning on the bottom, add 2 cups of water and bring to a boil. when the fish is beginning to cook, and the mussel water is boiling, add in the mussels, clams and lobster claws/tail etc. cover to let the shells open up and finish cooking. (ensure your seafood is cooked for safety!) remove the lid and gently stir the liquid. serve the boil right to the table (on a hot plate), with lemon slices, and sliced baguette on the side (to dip in your broth). enjoy! making a seafood boil for a crowd when making the boil for the crowd, the same principles and ingredients apply – but you will use more pots. because you will buy many more pounds of shellfish, more fish etc. it may be easier to do it all in steps. again, pre-cook the corn and potatoes (i kept them warming in the oven, covered, while i prepped the seafood). toss these with butter and salt/pepper as you like just before serving. in one large pot, you’ll steam the mussels. in another, the clams. and another, warm up your lobster/crab. in a pan on the stove, cook the fish. when it’s done, warm through the chorizo bites. the mussel pot will become your broth base. use butter, seasoning and water to steam the mussels. when serving, use a large, rimmed serving tray or roasting pan. split the mussels into each serving pan. then add fish to one side, the other seafood to the other, and evenly distrisbute the chorizo, corn and potatoes. rebecca 2 min read december 21, 2017 no reply an easy holiday dessert you can make (using few ingredients) food and drink, recipes recipe: cream cheese squares one of the reasons why i love the kraft canada website for recipes is because they limit the amount of ingredients for many recipes. while i love experimenting and can appreciate a recipe that calls for 15 ingredients to bring out nuanced, subtle and amazing flavours, sometimes, i just want easy. that also means using what i have in my pantry or fridge. with the holidays upon us, you may find yourself trying to come up with a new dessert to bring to with you when you are invited to an evening at a friend’s house, or when your go-to recipes have already been claimed on the work potluck list, you may need to come up with something new (but easy, that’s the theme with so few days left before christmas!) that’s one reason i loved making these philadelphia cream cheese 3-step cream cheese squares. i had all of the ingredients on hand, it took no time to make (the waiting for it to cool was the longest part!) and there’s so much versatility. i could top them with mini peanut butter cups, or drizzle with chocolate, or even add some caramel topping. keeping philadelphia cream cheese in the fridge is something we do anyway, so whipping up these bars was a breeze. if i had a pre-made graham cracker crust, i could have used that too and reduce the ingredient list even further! we are already super busy, we don’t need the added stress of baking complicated recipes added to our lists. try this instead! head over to the kraft canada website for the full recipe. recipe testing: cream cheese squares via @bitofmomsense click to tweet disclosure: i am a member of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor group and receive compensation for my post. opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read october 28, 2017 no reply your next pasta dish to keep in the fridge for a tasty meal food, recipes usually when i use peanut butter, i make a dessert. or, in this house, it gets used up just by eating it plain. my kids have taken to eating pb and pretzels as an after school snack. but i love peanut butter in a savoury dish. combine that with my desire to have easy meals ready to go and it’s not a surprise that this peanut thai noodle salad was a huge winner in my books. try this pasta salad with peanut butter the next time you need a potluck dish! via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet it’s no secret that while i love cooking, my love for being in the kitchen and creating something new and tasty has to be on my own time. during the week, when we are rushed as a family and i can’t decide what to make that is nutritious and fast, it feels more like pressure and takes the joy out of it. when i have time, it’s a wonderful way to spend part of a day. when i don’t, it feels like a chore. i think that’s why i love having easy, go-to recipes that i can use any time during the week with limited ingredients. it’s definitely one reason i have turned to kraft canada recipes for years and years. i can alter them to suit my tastes, and to use what i already have in the pantry or fridge. this peanut thai noodle salad is a cold pasta salad (i love pasta salads!) and was the perfect weeknight no-meat dish. i think next time i make it, i will keep it in the fridge for a tasty lunch for myself during the week. i used bow tie noodles because i love them but a tighter, more firm noodle (like the original recipe calls for) would hold its shape and sauce better. i also omitted the snap peas just because i didn’t have any – that’s the beauty of these recipes, i can easily change them up. the sweet red peppers were a perfect foil to the saltiness of the soy sauce and because i used kraft all natural crunchy peanut butter, the only added sugar was from the honey. i probably could have reduced the amount of soy sauce just a bit and still had the flavours i wanted with each bite. i think what i loved most about this dish was how easy it was to make. i can’t wait to make it again. for more kraft canada peanut butter recipes visit their website! do you like to use peanut butter in dinner dishes? this easy pasta salad made with peanut butter is the perfect mid-week lunch bite via @bitofmomsense @kraftcanada click to tweet this is post is written in partnership with kraft canada. i’m a what’s cooking contributor and receive compensation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 1 min read september 19, 2017 no reply easy 10-minute meal: pasta with lemon and sundried tomatoes recipes it’s no secret that i love food, and while i enjoy getting creative in the kitchen, there are times when i just don’t feel inspired, or don’t have time. i’ve written before that dinner doesn’t have to be stressful. sometimes, easy, flavourful meals are the way to go especially when our busy schedules doesn’t give us time to explore in the kitchen. this is one of my favourite dishes to make. it uses pre-packaged pasta, and items that i usually have around. swap out the cheese for your favourite – aged cheddar, parmesean, goat cheese all work. i love sundried tomatoes, but you can use olives or peas instead. if you follow me on instagram, you’ll see that from time to time i live share my meal making via stories. to make this dish it’s simple. boil the pasta (i love tortillini) as per the instructions on the package, then strain. while the pasta is still hot, toss with olive oil, lemon juice. plate, then top with cheese and the cooked veggie or accompaniment of your choice. top with grated lemon rind and serve while warm. yummmmm this 10 minute pasta dish is so easy to make any day of the week! via @bitofmomsense click to tweet rebecca 1 min read may 27, 2017 no reply chocolate pudding and a twist #whatscooking [coupon link] food do you love pudding? my favourite is rice pudding, but honestly, most pudding is something i enjoy. i have one kid who’s a fan and one is usually doesn’t like pudding. yes, she doesn’t like pudding! i say usually, because there are certain kinds she ends up liking, like the hershey’s chocolate pudding cups that we were sent in partnership with kraft canada. i think there’s something about pudding that reminds me of my childhood. or maybe it’s just because i’m a fan of dessert in general. sometimes, however, it’s nice to put a twist on a traditional favourite. how about turning chocolate pudding into a banana split? slice some strawberries and add a bit of sugar to let the juices come out. slice up bananas and grab a pudding cup (bonus: you won’t need the whole pudding cup for the banana split so you have to eat the rest!) you can score your own hershey’s pudding cups to eat as is or make into a banana split in the refrigerated section of your grocery store plus there is a coupon! grab your hershey’s pudding cups coupon from @kraftcanada #whatscooking via @bitofmomsense click to tweet disclosure: this post is part of my partnership with kraftheinz canada and i receive perks and compensation for it. all opinions are my own. i wouldn’t make up that one of my kids doesn’t like pudding because i don’t even understand why 😉 rebecca 2 min read april 28, 2017 no reply recipe: fish in marinara sauce #whatscooking recipes this recipe for a tomato-fish bake had me from the moment i saw that there were so few ingredients. it was a bonus that it involved fish because we love eating fish and i love cooking with it. i think for a weekday meal, we often need some quick inspiration. this kraft canada recipe was so simple to make and i had everything on hand. a bottle of the classico organic marinara sauce (which, for the record, has a delicious taste!), oregano, pepper (i also added salt) and fish. while the original recipe called for halibut (our favourite white fish), it wasn’t readily available, and in truth, can be quite expensive. instead, i opted for two beautiful pieces of wild cod. these were actually frozen and i thawed them overnight, which makes this recipe even better. we often keep frozen fish handy. the preparation was easy (you can find the full recipe by visiting the kraft canada website link here) but i used some olive oil on the bottom of my baking dish, a cup of sauce, placed my fish on topped, seasoned with salt, pepper and oregano and baked. it took about 25 minutes. i ended up serving it with asparagus (possibly one of my favourite veggie side dishes) and a large piece of chunky bread. i felt like the bread was needed because the asparagus, while cooked until it still had a little bit of bite to it, is a softer, not crunchy veggie, and the fish is soft as well. i needed to add some texture plus, i wanted something to dip into that delicious marinara sauce. tip: in the last minute or so of cooking the fish, pop the bread into the bread into the oven alongside it to warm it up! the other thing i love about this dish is that you can make it for more than two people (and for those asking, no, my kids didn’t want anything to do with it. they don’t love white fish unless it’s in a stick format 😉 it doesn’t take long to make, and as i mentioned for a weeknight meal it was perfect. andy and i instantly looked at each other and agreed to make this a part of our meal rotation. do you love cooking with fish like we do? this is one to try any time of the week! want more recipe inspiration using pasta sauce? visit the kraft canada website! if you love fish, you’ll love this easy and tasty 4-ingredient dish via @bitofmomsense and @kraftcanada #whatscooking click to tweet disclosure: this post is part of my partnership with kraft canada’s what’s cooking contributor team and i receive compensation. all opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read december 13, 2016 17 replies recipe: red pepper quiche from the 2017 milk calendar plus enter to win cheese recipes i love easy meals. as much as i am a really big fan of delicious food, and fancy presentation, i still think that easy cooking can be not only tasty and healthy, but enjoyable to make as well. during a busy weeknight especially, when i don’t have time to do elaborate planning or to stand by the stove for extended periods of time, i need recipes that will feed us, taste good, but not take forever to make. this time of year especially (although, i could pinpoint various months where we suddenly are swamped with sports, commitments, school events and more) i’m looking for meals that are quick. it’s probably one reason why i’ve always loved the dairy farmers of canada milk calendar. this year, the calendar celebrates 40 years and the 2017 calendar reflects that history. i love that all recipes since 1974 are available online. my grandfather was a dairy farmer, so drinking, baking and cooking with milk is all part of my childhood. even as i got older and moved out, i continued to search for ways to eat well, and incorporate the flavours of my childhood which were comforting. i can remember in university getting the calendar and using recipes from it. there was one i remembered especially because it was easy to make and could be done fairly inexpensively plus was tasty. i looked it up on the milk calendar and this pasta recipe seems to be the one. i remember skipping the mushrooms and usually using broccoli instead. i may have the cut out recipe somewhere still! i made it a lot. when the dairy farmers of canada reached out for me to try to make a recipe from their newest calendar, i was excited to do so. there are so many delicious and easy sounding recipes in the 2017 calendar, but after making this red pepper and spinach quiche dish, i know we will be making it again. it was full of veggies and cheese, tasted amazing and came together easily. this would make an impressive brunch dish, or just something to enjoy for dinner. want to try it yourself? here’s the full recipe on the milk calendar website: roasted red pepper crustless quiche enter to win exciting news! you have a chance to win a cheese basket from my friends at the dairy farmers of canada (value is approximately $150!) to enter, head over to the quiche recipe link to read all about it, then come back and tell me how you would make your own twist on the recipe. a delicious recipe + enter to win a cheese gift basket from @100canadianmilk via @bitofmomsense click to tweet ps: click here for details on how to get your milk calendar! giveaway is open until december 18, 2016 at 5 pm est to canadian residents of legal age, void in quebec. one winner will be chosen from eligible entries at random. one entry per person. winner will have 48 hours to confirm prize. winner will have to provide mailing address that i will send to a third party to arrange delivery of gift basket which will arrive in early 2017. disclosure: this post is sponsored by the dairy farmers of canada and i received compensation, however, all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read october 20, 2016 no reply recipe: dinner rolls (cloverleaf rolls) food, recipes i didn’t know these buns were called cloverleaf until someone mentioned them on instagram and my family agreed that this was the name. i got the recipe from my mother-in-law and they are always a hit around the dinner table. the very first time i made them was for thanksgiving when andy and i lived in a tiny apartment, long before kids. i was making the entire thanksgiving meal for just the two of us – because i refuse to spend thanksgiving without turkey – and decided to try her recipe. the buns turned out like hockey pucks, hard and inedible. in the years since that incident, i’ve seem to have been able to recover and make a delicious bun. the rising is the key – punching it down before rolling it out, then letting them rise in the muffin tins is how to ensure a full, but fluffy bun. recipe: dinner rolls ingredients: 2 packages of yeast 2 cups warm water 1/4 cup sugar 3 tsp salt 1 egg 1/4 cup oil 5 1/2 – 7 cups of flour (there is a big difference here because it really depends on how the yeast is, the temperature of the room etc. go by feel – add up to 5 cups to start, then see if you can add more. if not, no worries! i average about 5.5 cups each time) directions: dissolve the yeast in the warm water for about ten minutes. add the sugar, salt and 3 cups of flour. beat/blend for about 2 minutes (i use a large bowl and the back of a wooden spoon to blend) add the egg and oil. slowly blend in the rest of the flour, until there is enough that the dough is not sticky, but forming a ball. use your hands and knead. grease a bowl and add the dough ball. flip it over and cover the bowl with a damp cloth. refrigerate and punch down as it rises (i leave out of the fridge and punch down during rising on the counter if i’m baking them sooner) 2 hours before baking, roll into small balls and add each balls per muffin tin section. brush with melted butter and let rise while covered with wax paper. bake at 400 degrees for about 12-15 minutes. enjoy! older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.