home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » recipe dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars december 11, 2019 domestically creative leave a comment dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars hey pretty handy girl readers! it's amanda from domestically creative and i'm back with another tutorial. this time i'm sharing one of my absolute favorite holiday recipes for dark chocolate peppermint cookie bars. who doesn't love adding a … [read more...] recipe holiday gift idea: hot cocoa on a stick november 11, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments every year i try to come up with a simple and inexpensive gift idea for teachers and service providers in my life. but, i don't want the gifts to look cheap. this year i put together these simple hot cocoa on a stick gift mugs. they look festive and provide a nice warm treat for … [read more...] gift ideas, recipe grilled corn pesto pizza june 10, 2019 brittany bailey grilled corn & pesto pizza i have been pinning lots of grilled pizza recipes, but honestly i've never grilled a pizza before. then i stumbled upon a recipe for grilled corn pizza and decided to alter it a little to suit my taste buds. the result is a light summery flavored … [read more...] recipe sunburn relief spray july 13, 2018 brittany bailey 13 comments soothe sunburn quick with this simple two ingredient sunburn relief spray. two ingredient sunburn relief spray oops i did it again. i forgot to put sunscreen on and lost track of time while weeding this weekend. now my skin is paying the price with a deep red … [read more...] essential oils, recipe keto chocolate mug cake april 18, 2018 diane and dean 6 comments keto chocolate mug cake this keto chocolate mug cake is one of the best keto friendly desserts you will eat. we are trying a lot of keto desserts and promise to save you time and money by only posting the keto diet recipes that have passed our taste test! dean started the low … [read more...] recipe keto chocolate mug cake, keto desserts, keto-friendly, lchf, low carb, low carb desserts 26 creative diy gifts from your kitchen december 8, 2017 sheri 4 comments creative diy gifts from your kitchen the kitchen is the heart of the home and a place full of love, family, and delicious food. why not make your kitchen the go to place for diy gifts this year? plus there's something special about receiving a homemade gift. would you agree? … [read more...] gift ideas, gifts, kitchen, recipe christmas gifts, diy gifts, food gifts, gift ideas, gift recipes, giftable recipes, holiday gifts, homemade desserts, kitchen gifts, made in kitchen easy peppermint star ornaments december 23, 2016 brittany bailey 1 comment last year i made these easy peppermint star ornaments. they were a lot of fun to watch as they melted and fuzed into a snowflake ornament. my son asked if we could make them again this year. because the kids are officially out of school now, i thought this would be the perfect … [read more...] arts and craft, crafts, diy, gifts, recipe, tutorial, video quick & easy peppermint oreo recipe december 12, 2016 brittany bailey 9 comments want a quick and easy holiday recipe you can make with the kids? when you don't have time to bake, but you still want to give a homemade holiday treat, try this recipe for peppermint oreos! quick & easy peppermint oreos ingredients: 1 pkg. of oreo … [read more...] gift ideas, gifts, recipe easy pumpkin dip with healthy alternatives october 10, 2016 decor adventures 3 comments when the weather turns cooler in the fall, i can't help but want to spend more time cooking inside (with pumpkin of course.) there are so many things you can make with it including this easy pumpkin dip to serve for the next few months. easy pumpkin dip is great for a kids' … [read more...] recipe healthy sugar busters coffee september 19, 2016 brittany bailey 5 comments raise your hand if you are addicted to sugar! (hand raised high here.) i've been trying to give up sugar and developed this healthy sugar busters coffee based loosely on a bullet proof coffee recipe i found. research has shown that we all need healthy fats to support our brain … [read more...] recipe crab pinwheels august 24, 2016 love create celebrate 2 comments hi everyone! this is lindi, visiting again from love create celebrate! i'm happy to be here again, this time sharing a quick and easy summer recipe. these crab pinwheels are one of my favourite summer appetizers. you will not be disappointed if you make them! the recipes i … [read more...] recipe, summer appetizer, recipe, summer chipotle ranch chicken salad july 25, 2016 brittany bailey 4 comments i have a new favorite salad and it is delicious!!! a few weeks ago we went to the beach for our vacation. at the end of the week i wanted to use up as much food in the fridge as i could. you understand the struggle, right? who wants to waste food? in the fridge we had leftover … [read more...] recipe lemon zest popcorn july 13, 2015 brittany bailey 2 comments lemon zest popcorn recipe want a summer recipe for popcorn? one that has that tangy zest and sweet buttery flavor. you'll definitely love this recipe for lemon zest popcorn. and as a bonus, you can make a big batch and give some in handled mason jars as a gift. this is an idea … [read more...] gifts, recipe vintage farm weekly meal planner {free printable} march 4, 2015 brittany bailey 4 comments last week as i was showing you our new family organization center door, you probably saw this cute vintage farm weekly meal planner: i created this re-useable meal planner with some beautiful vintage graphics from the graphics fairy. she has an entire library of vintage … [read more...] kitchen, recipe diy gift idea: hot cocoa mix in a jar november 26, 2014 melissa riker 8 comments hot cocoa mix in a jar i love making homemade gifts during the holidays. not only is it more personal than something store-bought, but it's a budget saver as well. one of my favorite quickie gifts to make is hot cocoa mix. with mason jars being all the rage, this gift in a jar … [read more...] gift ideas, recipe, uncategorized peanut butter pumpkin dip recipe september 24, 2014 melissa riker 5 comments hey there, it's melissa from the happier homemaker back again and i have something i think you're going to love this month. i love to cook and i especially love creating fun new recipes in the fall-everything about autumn is so inspiring! it seems that when september rolls … [read more...] recipe autumn, dip, fall, peanut butter, pumpkin, recipe 1 2 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok