instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "recipes" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: recipes rebecca 3 min read november 26, 2017 no reply 8 christmas cookies, squares and treats to make food and drink, recipes perfect for the work potluck, cookie exchange or family gathering. are you ready to bake for the holidays? i’ve rounded up 8 of my favourite holiday recipes from this blog to share with you. most of these recipes and ideas will be happening in our family and i hope the tasty treats bring your family much joy this holiday season as well. 8 holiday recipes and treats to make to eat, give and share this festive season via @bitofmomsense click to tweet decorated sugar cookies tasty and easy to make, these cookies are a hit with the kids because they can decorate them with sprinkles and coloured icing. they freeze well and make a large batch. just ensure you have your favourite cookie cutter shapes on hand! ginger molasses cookies i think these cookies are my favourite. the spice is subtle but festive and the cookies are perfect with an evening tea or morning coffee. they won’t last long, so always double the batch. unbaked cookies straight out of my childhood are the mudpie/unbaked cookies. i think these were one of the first recipes i learned to make. they are great this time of year because for sharing and don’t require the oven if you have other cookies baking away. skor bars the most requested recipe from my extended family each year are the skor bar cookies. i’ve been making them since university and there’s no skipping this dish. they are beyond sweet and beyond delicious. make them and you’ll be the holiday baking hero. hot chocolate bar while not technically a dessert, the hot chocolate bar is pure childhood indulgence. it’s easy to set up and the kids will love it. it’s also a fun thing to do when you have company. white chocolate pistachio cranberry bark inspired by a treat i had from a store years ago, this homemade version is easy to make, but may set you back a few extra pennies because of the cost of pistachios. it’s still worth making because it’s an easy food gift to make that will impress (or keep it for yourself and just enjoy!) shortbread this melt-in-your-mouth shortbread is my grandmother’s recipe and it tastes like childhood to me. i like to make green trees out of mine, but you can vary the colour or leave them as is. it won’t matter, they taste great either way. peanut butter cups a couple of years ago, i made and gifted chocolate to people. i have peanut butter cup molds because of this and even bought pretty foil food wrapper. they are delicious and as i write this i realize it’s been a while since i’ve made them. i think they need to make a reappearance. pick your favourite recipe and make it your own! happy baking! pin for later: rebecca 2 min read august 1, 2017 no reply what’s cooking: devilled eggs recipes this month, as part of my partnership with kraft canada, i get to feature french’s dijon mustard in a recipe. when this was announced, it felt like a gift. if you’ve been following the food i cook on this blog and at home (via my instagram stories!) you may know that i think dijon mustard is a staple that one should always have on hand. i love cooking with it and many recipes on my blog include it as an ingredient. i’ve made maple syrup and dijon salmon with it, and it’s the secret ingredient for my potato salad (just to name a few). it makes sense that this delicious mustard appears in many other recipes. it’s one of those ingredients that has the power to transform recipes. even just adding dijon mustard to a sandwich elevates the taste. it is no surprise, then, that dijon mustard also tastes great in devilled eggs. devilled eggs growing up my mom always made devilled eggs. it was a potluck/family bbq staple, and they were always delicious. her recipe also included miracle whip and relish. but as kids, we always asked for ones with no relish because…ew, relish (at least, that’s how we felt at 10 years old). i used the kraft canada recipe recently and skipped the relish, but did include the dijon mustard which adds a really nice tang to the flavour. the eggs are so simple to make and remind me of my childhood. one of the reasons why i think devilled eggs are such a popular item to bring to or serve at family gatherings is not only because they taste so delicious, but because they are so easy to make. they take no time at all, use a minimal number of ingredients and look wonderful when presented. here’s where you can find the kraft canada devilled egg recipe or other dijon mustard recipes. disclosure: this post is part of the kraft canada what’s cooking contributor program. i receive compensation but all opinions are my own. i’m still now sure if i want relish in my devilled eggs. rebecca 0 min read july 27, 2017 no reply love peaches? 3 recipes using peaches recipes peaches are amazing! try one of these three recipes via @bitofmomsense click to tweet i love peaches. and i’m always so excited each summer when they are finally available locally. while my favourite way to eat them is simply to wash them and eat them over the sink because they are so drippy, they also are delicious in sweet and savoury recipes. here are three ways to use up your peaches this summer (or anytime if you freeze them!) recipe: simple savoury peach pepper jam recipe: whiskey peach bbq sauce on chicken *note – this recipe, if you use boneless, skinless chicken thighs, can also be pulled and served on buns! recipe: peach crisp enjoy! rebecca 4 min read august 7, 2015 2 replies backyard essentials: are these on your list? food, home, kitchen tips what do you consider essential to your backyard? we are constantly trying to improve our little back yard. i’ve written about it numerous times before. my sister has a small yard, and yet her treed lot that provides her natural shade, her gorgeous cedar fence and her keen eye for cute decor makes it feel so inviting. i aspire to set our yard up like that, and yet we always run into a few issues. we like to entertain back there, but the space itself is primarily for us. the kids play in the sprinkler, or colour with chalk, and andy and i like to sit and chat with our coffee or a summer drink. there are certain elements in the yard, no matter how big or small, that are important to us: shade, a comfortable place to sit, and a bbq. the latter is something i don’t have! i’ll get to that in a bit. shade is paramount and yet in our backyard it’s been one of the hardest elements to ensure we have. we toyed with the idea of a giant umbrella, but anchoring it was an issue. we did settle on a portable, folding shade canopy that is easy to put up and down, but isn’t permanent. after many years, one of our trees is finally big enough that it provides us with glorious, needed shade. our yard is all sun in the late afternoon and early evening, so the tree is in the perfect location. i go back and forth about furniture all the time. i want a living room style set up, and yet the price tends to keep me away. we do have two folding chair loungers that are very comfortable (and have a drink holder) but when we have company, we would like to have a few more spots that offer the same comfort as our living room. perhaps one of the most important items that we don’t currently have in our backyard is a bbq. we got one as a gift from my parents when we were married and it lasted a number of years, but three years ago, it died and we didn’t replace it. at first, we thought we didn’t need to replace it. but now, years later, we are finding ourselves browsing online for a small bbq to put on the deck to help relieve the pressures of summer cooking. mostly, when i am looking at bbq recipes, i start to lament not having one. check out the bbq recipes on ricardo’s cuisine, a canadian resource for yummy food. my mouth waters when i look at these recipes and i think about how it would be fantastic to whip them up myself. when i get a new bbq, what recipe will i go to first? i am thinking a nice side dish, like this corn and avocado salsa, or a traditional baked potato with a twist. or maybe i should go directly for the main course and make this white fish and chorizo or spiced chicken dish that i think even the kids would love! now i’m hungry. i don’t think i can really go wrong, do you? this summer, i am finally dedicated to replacing our bbq, and plan to extend the bbq season into the fall. what do you think? is a bbq a must-have essential for your cooking? disclosure:this is a sponsored post however, all opinions are my own. and yes, i need to get a new bbq. especially after having browsed through all of these recipes that i’m missing out on making! rebecca 1 min read july 30, 2015 no reply recipe: garlic and tomato pizza food, recipes summer days mean easy summer suppers. my favourite meals are the most simple meals. i love being able to pack a picnic, grabbing food from a food truck, left overs; these are my types of meals. tonight we had a picnic supper at the beach! #ottawa #summervacay #latergram a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on jul 13, 2015 at 5:26pm pdt that’s why when we’ve had a busy day of playing, museum visiting, playground running around and more, i am looking for something quick and simple. enter my love for the simplistic flat bread pizza. not only do you buy the crust ahead of time (hello naan), but you can use any toppings that you have in the garden or fridge. a recent brushetta-style pizza topping with grated parmesean was exactly what i wanted on a hot day. the oven barely had to be on (and if we had a bbq, which is on the list to get again soon, we could have used that too). garlic tomato flat bread pizza ingredients (makes 2 small pizzas) 2 pieces of naan 1 tomato, chopped 1 garlic clove, grated 1 green onion, chopped kraft parmesean cheese olive oil pepper directions: combine tomato, onion, garlic and a splash of olive oil. divide equally and top each naan with the mixture. sprinkle as mush grated parmesean cheese on as you like. top with pepper and drizzle a bit more olive oil. bake in the oven at 375 degrees until the sides are crisping, about 10-15 minutes. use a grill if you prefer. enjoy! disclosure: this post is part of my what’s cooking contributor partnership with kraft canada and i receive compensation as part of the program. and yes, it’s wild that i don’t have a bbq. rebecca 1 min read may 31, 2015 no reply cottage bites: recipes for easy cottage meals and snacks food, food and drink, recipes we once again will be heading to pei for a 2-week cottage stay this summer. we can’t wait. while we eat out around the island quite a bit (there are so many places to try there!), we also stay and eat meals at the cottage a lot. are you heading to a cottage this summer? kraft canada has a camping and cottage recipe hub with a lot of great ideas. i love this broccoli salad recipe and this spicy popcorn recipe that can be made ahead of time. of course, we always pack everything to make s’mores by the campfire! i’ve posted a few cottage recipes on this blog before. here’s a round up of some of my favourites! 1- simple pasta salad this is one of the most simple recipes i make! add your favourite chopped veggies and it’s even more complete. 2- tuna salad this makes for the most simple lunch! 3- bbq potatoes use the bbq to make these delicious potatoes. if your cottage doesn’t have foil containers, bring your own. 4- sangria the cottage needs a refreshing drink, right? i tend to make ‘everything but the kitchen sink sangria’ at the cottage. i use whatever fruit we have around but with almost all my sangria i make a simple sugar water to sweeten it. i control the sugar content that way! each year, i’m always looking for new recipes. have a favourite, easy cottage or camping recipe (ones i can make at the campfire would be great!) that you can share? link it below! disclosure: this post is part of my kraft canada what’s cooking partnership. i receive compensation as a result but all opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read march 25, 2015 no reply 3 ways to use cheese for your next meal #cheesefest recipes what if i said the word ‘cheesefest’ to you? the celebration of cheese sounds pretty fun around here. fun for my taste buds! i’m one of those drooling-over-cheese kind of people. and by no means am i really adventurous (my husband will try any kind of cheese no matter how stinky or odd), but there’s rarely a time when a recipe that involves cheese is a miss for me. kraft canada and loblaws are celebrating cheese with cheesefest from march 19 until april 9. this is the perfect time to pick up cheese at your local loblaws store for your next meal, snack or dessert! cheese is constantly in the fridge at our house. the kids each like it in a variety of ways and typically not the same way – melted on a grilled cheese sandwich, sliced into thin slices for eating as is, cream cheese spread on bagels – the options go on and on. i love cooking with it. cheese is very forgiving. i find it’s difficult to really mess up a cheese recipe, and when in doubt, it’s perfectly acceptable to serve cheese as is! i can use cream cheese for dessert recipes or when cooking supper, and shredded cheese melts into a gooey, delicious bite. if you have been reading my blog for a while, you know i love to share cheese recipes thanks to my partnership with kraft canada. i try to focus on family friendly recipes that focus on taste first. here are three ways to use cheese in your kitchen! traditional mac and cheese this recipe still reminds me of my childhood. it’s simple, and sometimes simple is best. i feel like this is one of those recipes that will be passed on to my kids, and their kids and so on. simply lasagna my mother-in-law shared this kraft canada recipe with me years ago and i haven’t made another one yet (even when i make a simple meatless lasagna, i still follow these instructions). the recipe had me from the moment i didn’t have to pre-cook the noodles. the secret is to let the lasagna rest for a good chunk of time to really firm up. each slice is gorgeous after that. this is a go-to when serving large groups too and it freezes well! charcuterie board okay, so may it’s less of a recipe and more of a type of meal, but never underestimate the power of a delicious bite of cheese with the right chutney and crisp cracker. go with an old cheese to ensure the sharpness which contrasts sweet jellies or fruit chutneys. #dinner a photo posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on jan 10, 2015 at 1:20pm pst you want to eat cheese now, right? which way do you love to eat cheese? don’t forget to check out cheesefest at loblaws between march 19 and april 9 to pick up your cheese! disclosure: this post was sponsored, however, all opinions are my own. i apologize if i have made you crave cheese now. actually, no i don’t. go buy some 😉 rebecca 3 min read february 10, 2015 1 reply cookbooks lifestyle i love the internet, that is no secret. although i try to avoid googling ‘child rash on lip’ or something like that, i generally get along quite well with the world wide web. i love having resources at my finger tips, i’ve made friendships thanks to it, and created a small business to work within. however, much like my tendency to not read books on an e-reader (yet), i still have a mad crush on a good ole cook book that i can touch in my hands. there’s probably not a day that goes by that i don’t use google as a recipe assistant. as i stare at the salmon, coconut milk and sweet potatoes, i may just plug those three ingredients into the search bar and see what inspires me. or, if i’m not sure how long to cook the roast beef for, i look it up. and yet, it leaves me longing. while i can set up my ipad or laptop in the kitchen and scroll down the page as i bake, there is something tactile and engaging about recipe books themselves. we have bought all of michael smith’s books, and when andy has often gifted me gorgeous recipe books that are like art books. i love how my recipe books have splotches of melted butter on them, or flour dusted in the corners. the pages stick together because i’ve dripped sauce on them and the books instantly open to the recipes i use the most. this is something that a screen can’t replace. i like to think that one day, these books and my printed recipes will be handed down to my kids and their kids in an attempt to replicate some of their favourite childhood recipes, just as i have done with my mom’s recipe container and my grandmother’s. fellow blogger and all around lovely person aimée wimbush-bourque recently released her first cookbook (although i’ve been visiting her food blog, simple bites, for years.) it’s exactly what i love in a cookbook. beautiful images, recipes that are doable any day of the week, and ideas to improve our home cooked and home grown food. it should be noted that an entire chapter is dedicated to maple syrup and maple recipes. this book is one that’s after my own heart. the first recipe i made from it was one i had actually made from her blog before. a bacon, asparagus and egg dish that’s made in one pan. i’ve made it for brunch and supper and the taste never grows old. i’ve already looked through to plan out future recipes like an overnight oatmeal casserole, or the sticky maple blueberry pudding. i love cookbooks. and food. do you have a favourite cookbook on your shelf, or have you switched mostly to online resources? rebecca 1 min read april 27, 2013 7 replies good eats: what’s cookin’ this week? recipes do you change your eating and cooking habits based on seasons? i certainly change ingredients based on what’s fresh at the farmers’ market or what’s in season at the grocery store, and realized lately that i do have a seasonal palette. maybe i don’t stop cooking macaroni and cheese when i have a craving, no matter what time of year it is, or stop using the slow cooker (especially in the summer when we are outside so much!), but it changes, even if slightly. the warmer weather means we are outside more so i have less prep time for supper. in the summer, on a hot day, i could live off of cold lobster and potato salad. no matter what the weather this week though, i’ve rounded up a lot of tasty recipes from the good eats group. check them out, and give them a try! 1- brussel sprouts are completely underrated in my opinion. kitchen counter chronicles gives us a recipe to prove that too. source: kitchencounterchronicle.com via jayda siggers on pinterest 2- i’m just not convinced to drink these healthy, spinach/green drinks everyone is having, but i know that i can get my son to drink this stuff if it’s the right combination. jayda seems to have found a family hit with these chocolate green smoothies. source: eatwholebevital.com via jayda siggers on pinterest 3- okay, so maybe this is a departure from the healthy stuff but. come on. peanut butter krispie sqaures from ottawa valley moms. yes please. source: ottawavalleymoms.com via ottawa valley on pinterest rebecca 0 min read march 24, 2013 no reply good eats: korean inspired pork and potato soup, ham and cheese brunch square, and mushroom strawberry cookies? recipes this week i have a couple of good eats for you to drool over as we go into easter weekend. i’m having a few family members over for supper and i’m going to try something less traditional with my menu planning but some yummy cooking. still working it out. i love gathering new recipes so here’s a couple for you to try. meanwhile, my conversations out loud while i’m cooking must be rubbing off, because my son demonstrated a ‘cooking show’ yesterday where he wrote out a recipe for mushroom strawberry cookies (eww) and prepared them with instructions in front of us. love it. although i don’t know that i would eat those cookies. enjoy these recipes from foodieprints for korean inspired pork and potato soup and the ottawa valley moms’ recipe for ham and cheese brunch squares. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.