home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources recommended resources welcome to the recommended resources section, a curated list of the tools and programs we strongly recommend for kicking off your journey into tech and navigating the landscape to your dream role. before digging into the awesome resources we know and trust, an important disclosure: some of the links below are affiliate links, which means that if you choose to make a purchase, we will earn a commission. this commission comes at no additional cost to you, but it does help us ensure we have resources to produce quality content. please understand that we have experience with all of these companies, and we recommend them because they are helpful and useful, not because of the small commissions we make if you decide to buy something or apply to a school. please do not spend any money on these products unless you feel you need them or that they will help you achieve your goals. coding schools hack reactor hack reactor is a 12-week program focused on teaching javascript development. listen to episodes apply fullstack academy is a 12-week program in chicago & nyc, focused on javascript development. listen to episodes apply hackbright hackbright is a 12-week immersive program that's focused on teaching women how to code. listen to episodes apply app academy $250 off if you enroll is a coding bootcamp that teaches ruby on rails & javascript. listen to episodes apply product/sales/design schools growthx academy $250 off if you enroll trains individuals who want to transition into sales, ux design, biz dev & growth marketing. listen to episodes apply product school 8-week part-time product management training courses in 8 locations across u.s. listen to episodes apply always hired always hired is fulltime technology sales bootcamp & training program. listen to episodes apply tradecraft full time, in-person immersive training program to learn product, design & sales. listen to episodes apply continued cs education codepath 8-week evening ios/android development classes for professional engineers and designers. website bradfield 5% off if you enroll 4-8 week in-person instruction for professional software engineers seeking mastery website learn to code online freecode camp open source community where you can learn to code for free and build projects for nonprofits website treehouse learn web design, ux and coding online! website code school learn to code in the comfort of your browser with video tutorials, programming challenges, and screencasts. website subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!