the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. recommends everything you ever wanted to know about recommends. news, stories, photos, videos and more. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop you may also like gizmodo teen who died of covid-19 was denied treatment because he didn't have health insurance matt novaktoday 6:00am the root the trump administration just canceled an order for 80,000 ventilators to haggle over the price stephen a. crockett jr.today 11:30am news trevor noah gets 13 minutes with the one guy you want to listen to on covid-19 dennis perkinstoday 4:31am popular from the a.v. club shared from news 4 46 trevor noah gets 13 minutes with the one guy you want to listen to on covid-19 dennis perkins today 4:31am shared from news 60 nyu tisch dean replies to pleas for tuition refunds with bizarre video of her dancing to r.e.m. reid mccarter today 10:27am shared from games 17 the fartman cometh: celebrating the many careers of wario, nintendo’s stinky, cheating genius william hughes today 10:00am subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe all categories uncategorized view all the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith let’s take a tour of gaming’s most scenic apocalypses 7 coffee table books you’ll actually want to read a-sides view all 5 new releases we love: waxahatchee goes vintage, pearl jam returns, and more 5 new releases we love: four tet’s nostalgic offering, matt wilson’s return, and more 5 new releases we love: chika's soulful debut, the districts' return, and more what are you playing this weekend? view all why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? nioh 2’s inventory system is hot, glutted garbage when it comes to interactive nightmares, you just can't beat the (in)human touch watch this view all on his way to the mcu, james gunn infected alien-invasion horror with troma squishiness before night of the living dead, this creepy sci-fi sleeper brought zombies (and robots) from space a ray bradbury sci-fi classic has empathy and inventive special effects to spare 5 to watch view all 5 female-led martial arts movies to fill the mulan-shaped hole in your life 5 episodes of bojack horseman that each spotlight a main character 5 disney+ deep cuts to watch on launch day what are you reading? view all what are you reading in march? what are you reading in february? what are you reading in january? staff picks view all netflix’s love is blind flips the script on the dating app generation everyone should accept the circle’s friend request colleen green’s album-length cover of blink-182’s dude ranch is a sepia-toned ode to adolescence to-do list view all 6 under-the-radar shows, movies, and more for your long weekend 5 offerings (that aren’t horror films) to get you in the october spirit what to watch, listen to, play, and read this weekend advertisement