news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals internet reddit’s fastest-growing subreddit right now? /r/coronavirus, of course one of the tricks they use to keep everything factual? banning political posts. by joe rice-jones march 20, 2020 image: screenshot / reddit as the coronavirus pandemic increases in infection rates, two things are becoming apparent – it’s all most people can talk about, and unfortunately, they can’t meet in person to talk about it. enter reddit. now, a small subreddit created when the virus only had 44 confirmed cases has outpaced the infection rate to gather over 1.2 million members. it’s grown to the point that even the main reddit page points browsers to the /r/coronavirus subreddit, where the volunteer moderation team is in constant contact with the site’s main admins. where this subreddit differs from most is that all the moderator teams are researchers of infectious diseases, virologists, computer scientists, or medical professionals, so the thousands of comments and posts flagged for review are policed for accuracy based on their own in-depth knowledge. that’s turned a niche subreddit with less than a thousand members into one of the premier sources for information about the current state of play with the novel coronavirus, and covid-19, the illness it causes. emerson boggs, a ph.d. student who signed up to help moderate back in january when it was still small says, “even working in virology, this subreddit is the most up-to-date source of information i am aware of.” one of the tricks they use to keep everything factual? banning political posts. that limits the amount of misinformation while giving the community the space to discuss policy or containment measures. automated tools also look for racist slurs or dog whistles, alerting the moderators to remove the offending posts. it’s still early in the pandemic to see what the future holds, but you can be sure that the moderation team at /r/coronavirus is going to be there for every step of the way. have any thoughts on this? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus should lawyers be offering virtual consultations because of the coronavirus? uber eats will waive delivery fees for local restaurants due to the coronavirus alphabet has started rolling out its site for free coronavirus screening related topicscoronavirusinternetnewsredditwtf joe rice-jones maker, meme-r and unabashed geek. hardware guy here at knowtechie, if it runs on electricity (or even if it doesn't) i probably have one around here somewhere. my hobbies include photography, animation and hoarding reddit gold. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in internet safari’s latest update now blocks all third-party cookies by default yes, all of them. winning real money in online casinos: true or fake? while online casinos do offer the chance to land winnings, make the experience better... find out if websites are secure with the help of a threat intelligence platform a solution like the threat intelligence platform (tip) inspects a site’s domain name system... 4 things everyone should know about free vpn sites and extensions free vpns don’t have as much money, which means that they cannot afford servers... how to download college textbooks for free and safe learn how to download college textbooks for free, safe and fast. reliable services to... at&t is waiving data cap fees for home internet customers in response to the coronavirus hopefully, more companies will follow suit. stay away from fake news sites with reverse domain lookup tools with cybersecurity research tools that allow users to do reverse domain lookups, publishers can... how to lessen the impact of cybercrime with domain research and monitoring solutions implementing cyber protection technologies, such as domain research and monitoring solutions, can minimize your... 5th gen waymo driver to innovate autonomous vehicles find out if websites are secure with the help of a threat intelligence platform home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie