home how to recycle recycling near you printables articles what does reduce reuse recycle mean? the phrase reduce, reuse, recycle is often used when we talk about how to be more environmentally friendly, how to be greener, how to be ecologically sound and how to live sustainably. but what does it really mean? how to recycle a camera now that most mobile phones include a camera - which is usually of decent quality and is sometimes excellent -many of us have an old camera tucked away in the cupboard that we simply don’t use any more. how to recycle glass how to recycle glass items such as bottles, jars, lightbulbs, window glass and glass kitchenware such as drinking glasses and pyrex dishes. plus what to do with broken glass. how to reduce food waste 7 million tonnes of wasted food is thrown away in the uk every year, at an estimated cost per household of £470. approximately 50% of this wasted food comes from our homes. yet the majority of this food could have been eaten. where can i recycle.....used postage stamps? do you have a collection of used postage stamps in your home? you can help a charity now by donating them to a good cause. what does zero waste mean? zero waste is a fashionable term that is regularly bandied around, but what does it actually mean? plus 10 easy zero waste swaps you can make today where can i recycle........coat hangers? it is all too easy to end up with more coat hangers than you need, whether you have cleared out your wrdrobe, have a pile of children's coat hangers that are now too small to use or are looking to get rid of lots of those annoying wire hangers from the dry cleaners. where can i recycle...clothing and other textiles? many clothing and household textile items which are thrown away could be reused, and the good news is that over 50% of textiles are recycleable. organic and fairtrade bedding sleep easy on organic and fairtraded sheets, duvet sets and blankets. free water saving devices many uk water companies offer free water saving devices to their customers. is your water supplier on the list? updated. most popular in recycling cds & dvds mattresses glasses (spectacles) milk bottle tops aerosol cans stamps videotapes ......recycling a-z ©reduce, reuse, recycle 2005 - 2020 legal and disclaimer contact us sitemap about us