skip navigation! discover watch switch to fr de uk us friday mar 27, 2020 today on r29 wellness how i survived 3 months of staying inside by kristina rostorotsky your weekly dose of refinery29 subscribe now daily inspiration follow: refinery29 on instagram get featured submit your money diary living an exhaustive list of 100 things to do in self-isolation by jess commons fashion 10 canadian brands to support if you’re dreaming of a new handbag by truc nguyen living the best virtual parties to turn your living room into a club this weekend by nadia ebrahim horoscope what does your birthstone really mean? elizabeth gulino 1 hour ago living losing money? here’s how you can tap into government benefits octavia ramirez 1 hour ago news how south asian muslim women are reclaiming their stories nayantara dutta 1 hour ago beauty how i’m coping with coronavirus as an anxious skin picker when health guidelines for protecting yourself from coronavirus were first released, i studied them carefully. increase hand-washing? no bother. self-isola by hannah vettese celebrity beauty gwen stefani gave blake shelton a haircut — & you have to see it with salons and spas closed to stop the spread of covid-19, celebrities have been leaning into their own beauty skills in self quarantine — and providing by elly belle tv shows killing eve season 3 is getting released two weeks early b... actually, good things can happen in quarantine, and sandra oh and jodie comer just proved it. while i’m sitting on my ass all day eating frozen pizza by kathryn lindsay news can i get arrested for breaking quarantine? if you saw the photos of beach parties in vancouver last weekend, you know that compliance — getting people to follow the current public-health guideline by courtney shea news how the royal family is handling coronavirus: from testing to soc... from parliament hill to the white house to buckingham palace, coronavirus is affecting some of the most powerful families in the world. earlier this week p by erin corbett fashion bottega veneta wants to spend the weekend with you fashion is divided on a lot of things: wearing white pants after labor day, kanye west, how small is too small when it comes to the size of your handbag by eliza huber beauty yes, you’re already washing your hands — what about your hair? now that we’re ultra-conscientious of washing our hands with soap and water for a full 20 seconds multiple times a day, as recommended by the cdc, sc by megan decker beauty elle fanning just debuted spring’s trendiest rainbow hair c... we’re in the midst of a global pandemic, which means that practicing social distancing is more than important, it’s critical to flatten the cur by thatiana diaz beauty pink cutting her own hair in self-isolation is all of us at this point, it’s crystal clear that anyone able must self-isolate to help flatten the curve of the covid-19 pandemic. according to countless exper by thatiana diaz entertainment where we left off on ozark season 2 warning: spoilers ahead for the ozark season 2 finale. wendy is all in, but marty’s not so sure. that’s how ozark season 2 ended. while the mon by shannon carlin beauty want brighter underarms? read this before you diy the way we care for our armpits isn’t one-size-fits-all. some people choose to embrace their hairs, while others never miss a laser appointment. some by thatiana diaz entertainment lori loughlin seeks dismissal of college bribery case over “... following claims that the fbi pressured “operation varsity blues” ringleader william “rick” singer into lying about lori loughlin and mossimo giann by ineye komonibo entertainment the dirty john season 2 trailer is here & it’s about... wondery and los angeles times podcast dirty john was the basis for the first season of bravo’s series of the same name. while connie britton and eric ban by kaitlin reilly entertainment britney spears knows how to save the world from this pandemic these are uncertain times, and nobody has the answers for how to best handle the coronavirus pandemic — except for the artist mimi zhu and britney spears by kathryn lindsay living the ultimate spring cleaning playlist, curated by real women by olivia harrison beauty these heavy-duty lotions do not mess around by gabrielle korn living the pure positivity of a quarantine dog hal was the answer to a long list of questions i asked myself about what i didn’t want. i didn’t want ruined furniture. i didn’t want ruined plans. i by connie wang beauty drunk elephant is launching its first hair line with jennifer ani... remember when jennifer aniston told everyone about a drunk elephant hairspray and we all cried internally when we found out it wasn’t available yet? the by tara edwards wellness porn & camming: coronavirus is impacting virtual sex, too in the age of coronavirus, many of us are glued to our tvs, phones, and laptops. we’re eating up the news — that’s a given. we’re streaming wo by molly longman entertainment how women in hollywood are dealing with their sets being shut down by anne cohen entertainment meghan markle is making her disney debut so soon prepare to get emotional over meghan markle’s disney voiceover debut. disney just announced that meghan, duchess of sussex, will narrate elephant, a new by kaitlin reilly news 10 ways to help canadians get through covid-19, in addition to st... as the coronavirus pandemic continues to spread, and we all adjust to a new way of life — complete with “social distancing,” constant hand-washing, a by nadia ebrahim wellness how covid-19 is making it harder to get an abortion in canada the panicked calls about accessing abortions during the covid-19 pandemic started coming in to the action canada for sexual health and rights hotline last by leah rumack beauty please don’t wash your face with antibacterial gel, warns s... with coronavirus fears at the front of everyone’s mind, we’re all very serious about following current recommendations in regards to the import by jacqueline kilikita beauty the ins & outs of at-home bikini waxing if you’re reading this, you’re probably social distancing at home to help slow the spread of covid-19. it’s a small, yet incredibly significant r by aimee simeon wellness why i’m talking to men about my periods as much as possible periods. as much as we talk about them and do our part to destigmatize the taboos around menstruation, there is still a lot of shame and guilt. nearly ever by shahed ezaydi fashion we can’t stop thinking about julia garner’s wedding p... with the global pandemic causing the majority of the fashion industry to hit pause, it’s hard to imagine what trends will look like in the seasons to com by eliza huber more stories today on r29 our mission we are the leading next-gen media and entertainment company focused on you—women pushing the status quo, in their lives and in the world. company about us jobs press advertising feedback refinery29 intelligence information r29 news terms privacy archives editions united states united kingdom germany france newsletter sign-up go! © 2020 vice media group