skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources reflections what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference march 22, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment during times of stress and upheaval, it's easy to feel like it's too big and you can't do anything. here's how to do good no matter where you are. as humans, we often feel as though we're masters … continue reading about what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference is there meaning in life without religion? january 17, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments one of the things we hear a lot at church is that the gospel brings meaning to life. it answers the questions dealing with who we are, where we came from, and where we are going. and, of course, … continue reading about is there meaning in life without religion? something to think about this memorial day may 25, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment we often talk about honoring our troops but do we put our collective public money where our mouths are? is it lip service only that we pay to our veterans? even though the number of homeless veterans … continue reading about something to think about this memorial day in which i share my feelings about terry pratchett march 14, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment a few days ago this happened: we feel the loss of our cultural icons. they are touchstones that influence who we are. we may never meet them. but they shape us. they give us ourselves. i see myself … continue reading about in which i share my feelings about terry pratchett high school miranda didn’t spend nearly enough time with genesis february 5, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment this year, i'm examining my place in my religion. i'm a blogger, so these exercises in navel gazing appeal to me. i kicked off my year with a brief overview of how mormonism has changed, and now i'm … continue reading about high school miranda didn’t spend nearly enough time with genesis mormonism in context: section 1- introduction january 26, 2015 by miranda marquit 2 comments i've been reading [easyazon_link asin="081298336x" locale="us" new_window="default" nofollow="default" tag="mmarquit-20" add_to_cart="default" cloaking="default" localization="default" … continue reading about mormonism in context: section 1- introduction go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 11 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com