welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners reflecting on the overwhelming response from the edx partner community on our coronavirus response published on: mar 17, 2020 by anant agarwal 1955 views no comments posted in: edx news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post last week, we shared that in response to the spread of the coronavirus, edx was launching the remote access program, an initiative designed to help the edx partner community address the challenges they are facing by providing their students with free access to courses and programs not just from their own universities, but from all edx partners participating in the initiative, helping students continue to learn online even as campuses close. we established the program with a simple goal: harness the power of our network and our online learning platform to help universities help students impacted by the pandemic. as of this week, we are proud to share that 40 edx partners have joined the initiative, including our founding partners harvard and mit and universities across the globe, including partners from europe, asia and south america. two of our corporate partners, ibm and microsoft, have also joined the initiative, making the content they offer on edx available to all of the edx partner university students participating in this program. as we continue to face the uncertainty and complexity that surrounds the spread of the coronavirus, it is particularly important that we come together to support and solve what challenges we can. as an educator myself, i am often inspired by the innovations and impact that our partner community displays, but the response to this initiative, in such unprecedented circumstances, is one that reminds me of why we are all working together in the first place. i would like to take a moment to thank the partners working tirelessly together to help their students, faculty and staff navigate the ever-changing situation. in the next few days and weeks, the edx team will be sharing additional resources and updates to help our larger edx learner community in the best way we can. we recognize that there is far more about this situation that is out of our control than is in, but as we become more and more isolated as a global society, we hope that the entire edx community – partners, learners, educators – can feel connected and supported by each other. recommended posts edx global university partner community joins forces to help students impacted by coronavirus 11 mar 2020 una reflexión sobre la abrumadora participación por parte de la comunidad de instituciones colaboradoras de edx respecto a nuestra respuesta frente al coronavirus 17 mar 2020 - en español consejos para un aprendizaje en línea exitoso 17 mar 2020 - en español leave a reply cancel reply you must be logged in to post a comment. search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close