style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop relationships together or apart? when you’re newly dating during quarantine four couples share their personal decisions. march 24, 2020 198 how are you today? sending love. march 23, 2020 823 a sixty-second way to feel good a brilliant comic by julie houts. march 16, 2020 53 which songs would (or did) you choose for your wedding? six couples share their sweet and offbeat choices. march 12, 2020 318 coronavirus: how are you feeling? plus, three links worth reading. march 11, 2020 913 what makes you secretly swoon? the unexpected things that make us weak in the knees. march 10, 2020 387 an anxiety trick "what if...it turns out wonderfully?" march 5, 2020 235 why you should rescue a dog eric kim on the best decision he ever made. march 5, 2020 225 moving from a big city to a small town 10 women share what it's really like to move from a big city to a small town. february 27, 2020 486 what’s one nice thing someone has done for you recently? let's talk about random acts of kindness. february 27, 2020 554 load more about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me relationships most popular an update on my twin sister seeing my body with fresh eyes a secret to a happy marriage on sexual harassment how to write a condolence note how do you know your partner is the one? the love story i never thought to tell 14 things to do with friends (other than dinner) a small kindness i’ll never forget 11 wedding dos and don’ts load more relationships career relationships friendship relationships what we're reading disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style what pants do you wear to work? food mrs. fields chocolate chip cookie recipe design have a delicious weekend. travel the weirdest best part of trips relationships a funny relationship question motherhood toby’s cookies that blew us all away about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out