skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download relevanssi – a better search by mikko saari details reviews installation support development description relevanssi replaces the standard wordpress search with a better search engine, with lots of features and configurable options. you’ll get better results, better presentation of results – your users will thank you. this is the free version of relevanssi. there’s also relevanssi premium, which has added features. for more information about premium, see relevanssi.com. do note that using relevanssi may require large amounts (hundreds of megabytes) of database space (for a reasonable estimate, multiply the size of your wp_posts database table by three). if your hosting setup has a limited amount of space for database tables, using relevanssi may cause problems. in those cases use of relevanssi cannot be recommended. key features search results sorted in the order of relevance, not by date. fuzzy matching: match partial words, if complete words don’t match. find documents matching either just one search term (or query) or require all words to appear (and query). search for phrases with quotes, for example “search phrase”. create custom excerpts that show where the hit was made, with the search terms highlighted. highlight search terms in the documents when user clicks through search results. search comments, tags, categories and custom fields. multisite friendly. bbpress support. gutenberg friendly. advanced features adjust the weighting for titles, tags and comments. log queries, show most popular queries and recent queries with no hits. restrict searches to categories and tags using a hidden variable or plugin settings. index custom post types and custom taxonomies. index the contents of shortcodes. google-style “did you mean?” suggestions based on successful user searches. support for wpml multi-language plugin and polylang. support for s2member membership plugin, members, groups, simple membership and other membership plugins. advanced filtering to help hacking the search results the way you want. search result throttling to improve performance on large databases. disable indexing of post content and post titles with a simple filter hook. premium features (only in relevanssi premium) indexing attachment content (pdf, office, open office). improved spelling correction in “did you mean?” suggestions. searching across multiple sites in the same multisite installation. search and index user profiles. search and index taxonomy term pages (categories, tags, custom taxonomies). search and index arbitrary columns in wp_posts mysql table. assign weights to any post types and taxonomies. assign extra weight to new posts. let the user choose between and and or searches, use + and – operator (and and not). export and import settings. wp cli commands. related posts. redirects for searches. relevanssi in facebook you can find relevanssi in facebook. thanks cristian damm for tag indexing, comment indexing, post/page exclusion and general helpfulness. marcus dalgren for utf-8 fixing. warren tape for 2.5.5 fixes. mohib ebrahim for relentless bug hunting. john calahan for extensive 4.0 beta testing. screenshots overview page indexing settings searching settings logging settings excerpts and highlights synonym settings stopword settings installation install the plugin from the wordpress plugin screen. activate the plugin. go to the plugin settings page and build the index following the instructions there. that’s it! relevanssi uses the standard search form and doesn’t usually need any changes in the search results template. if the search does not bring any results, your theme probably has a query_posts() call in the search results template. that throws relevanssi off. for more information, see the most important relevanssi debugging trick. uninstalling to uninstall the plugin remove the plugin using the normal wordpress plugin management tools (from the plugins page, first deactivate, then delete). if you remove the plugin files manually, the database tables and options will remain. faq knowledge base you can find solutions and answers at the relevanssi knowledge base. contextual help answers to many common problems can be found from the contextual menu. just click “help” in the top right corner of your wordpress admin dashboard on the relevanssi settings page. relevanssi doesn’t work if you the results don’t change after installing and activating relevanssi, the most likely reason is that you have a call to query_posts() on your search results template. this confuses relevanssi. try removing the query_posts() call and see what happens. searching for words with ampersands or hyphens doesn’t work please read words with punctuation can’t be found. this is a relevanssi feature, but you can fix it from relevanssi indexing settings. where are the user search logs? see the top of the admin menu. there’s ‘user searches’. displaying the relevance score relevanssi stores the relevance score it uses to sort results in the $post variable. just add something like echo $post->relevance_score
 to your search results template inside a php code block to display the relevance score. did you mean? suggestions relevanssi offers google-style “did you mean?” suggestions. see “did you mean” suggestions in the knowledge base for more details. what is tf * idf weighing? it’s the basic weighing scheme used in information retrieval. tf stands for term frequency while idf is inverted document frequency. term frequency is simply the number of times the term appears in a document, while document frequency is the number of documents in the database where the term appears. thus, the weight of the word for a document increases the more often it appears in the document and the less often it appears in other documents. what are stop words? each document database is full of useless words. all the little words that appear in just about every document are completely useless for information retrieval purposes. basically, their inverted document frequency is really low, so they never have much power in matching. also, removing those words helps to make the index smaller and searching faster. reviews fantastic plugin and support etisse march 7, 2020 helpful documentation and support, nice plugin to improve search indexing. excellent plugin with a very powerfull indexation search engine sidjet february 24, 2020 thank you very much i can not use the pro version for now but great work !!!! i hope you get some more paying custommers.... excellent search experience websolplus february 20, 2020 love the performance and control i get out of this plugin. excellent sharonvillines february 19, 2020 very, very useful. don't have to add tags to be sure things come up in searches this is what i need tofrus february 10, 2020 finally, i found the right search plugin. it's easy to use, and the guide is to the point. thank you so much. great support! good search plugin amistacx january 27, 2020 we have been using this plugin for about a year now and haven't had many issues. every time we had a suggestion or asked about a function, mikko was very quick with the answer or open to assist. if we had a large commercial catalog, i would go with the premium version. thanks! read all 258 reviews contributors & developers “relevanssi – a better search” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors mikko saari “relevanssi – a better search” has been translated into 6 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “relevanssi – a better search” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 4.7.1 new feature: new filter hook relevanssi_post_content_after_shortcodes filters the post content after shortcodes have been processed but before the html tags are stripped. minor fix: adds more backwards compatibility for the relevanssi_indexing_restriction change. 4.7.0 new feature: new filter hook relevanssi_admin_search_blocked_post_types makes it easy to block relevanssi from searching a specific post type in the admin dashboard. there’s built-in support for reusable content blocks rc_blocks post type, for example. new feature: the reason why a post is not indexed is now stored in the _relevanssi_noindex_reason custom field. changed behaviour: the relevanssi_indexing_restriction filter hook has a changed format. instead of a string value, the filter now expects an array with the mysql query in the index ‘mysql’ and a reason in string format in ‘reason’. there’s some temporary backwards compatibility for this. changed behaviour: relevanssi now applies minimum word length when tokenizing search query terms. changed behaviour: content stopwords are removed from the search queries when doing excerpts and highlights. when relevanssi uses the untokenized search terms for excerpt-building, stopwords are removed from those words. this should lead to better excerpts. minor fix: improves handling of emoji in indexing. if the database supports emoji, they are allowed, otherwise they are encoded. 4.6.0 changed behaviour: phrases in or search are now less restrictive. a search for ‘foo “bar baz”‘ used to only return posts with the “bar baz” phrase, but now also posts with just the word ‘foo’ will be returned. minor fix: user access manager showed drafts in search results for all users. this is now fixed. 4.5.0 new feature: new filter hook relevanssi_disable_stopwords can be used to disable stopwords completely. just add a filter function that returns true. changed behaviour: stopwords are no longer automatically restored if emptied. it’s now possible to empty the stopword list. if you want to restore the stopwords from the file (or from the database, if you’re upgrading from an earlier version of relevanssi and find your stopwords missing), just click the button on the stopwords settings page that restores the stopwords. changed behaviour: changes to post weights in the relevanssi_results hook did not affect the relevance scores shown in excerpts. that’s changed now, and the displayed scores are now taken from the $doc_weight array, which is returned in the return value array from relevanssi_search(). changed behaviour: excerpt length and type are now checked outside the loop that goes through the posts. this reduces the number of database calls required. minor fix: searching for regex special characters (for example parentheses, brackets) caused problems in excerpts. minor fix: improvements in handling highlighting for words with apostrophes. minor fix: disregard hanging commas at the end of post exclusion settings. minor fix: sometimes excerpts wouldn’t have an ellipsis in the beginning even though they should. 4.4.1 major fix: returns the missing stopwords. 4.4.0 new feature: it’s now possible to exclude image attachments from the index with a simple setting on the indexing settings page. new feature: page builder short codes are now removed in relevanssi indexing. this should reduce the amount of garbage data indexed for posts in divi, avada and other page builder themes. changed behaviour: the relevanssi_page_builder_shortcodes filter hook is now applied both in indexing and excerpts, and has a second parameter that will inform you of the current context. minor fix: stopwords weren’t case insensitive like they should. they are now. also, stopwords are no longer stored in the wp_relevanssi_stopwords database table, but are now stored in the relevanssi_stopwords option. minor fix: a comma at the end of the custom field indexing setting made relevanssi index all custom fields. this doesn’t happen anymore and trailing commas are automatically removed, too. minor fix: accessibility improvements all around the admin interface. screen reader support should be better, feel free to report any further ways to make this better. minor fix: doing searches without search terms and with the throttle disabled could cause problems. relevanssi now makes sure throttle is always on when doing termless searches. minor fix: untokenized search terms are used for building excerpts, which makes highlighting in excerpts work better. minor fix: indexing did not adjust the number of posts indexed at one go like it should. meta version: 4.7.1 last updated: 2 days ago active installations: 100,000+ wordpress version: 4.9 or higher tested up to: 5.4 php version: 5.6 or higher languages: see all 7 close czech, english (us), finnish, french (france), german, italian, and portuguese (brazil). translate into your language tags: better searchrelevancesearch advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 229 4 stars 10 3 stars 4 2 stars 3 1 star 12 contributors mikko saari support issues resolved in last two months: 27 out of 54 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.