if you're seeing this message, it means we're having trouble loading external resources on our website. if you're behind a web filter, please make sure that the domains *.kastatic.org and *.kasandbox.org are unblocked. main content to log in and use all the features of khan academy, please enable javascript in your browser. blog about impact team interns content specialists leadership supporters translators blog remote learning with khan academy during school closures 2020-03-05 17:32:59 gmt updated march 27, 2020 read this post in another language: հայերեն, bahasa indonesia, български, 简体中文, čeština, deutsche, ελληνικά, english (india), español, français, ქართული, italiano, 日本語, 한국어, magyar, po polsku, português (brasil), português (portugal), српски, svenska, русский, türkçe resources for schools, teachers, and parents we know there’s a lot on your minds from health and safety to child care and jobs. these are exceptionally challenging times as we close schools to stop the spread of covid-19, and we want to do everything we can to support you. khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. we offer free lessons in math, science and humanities from kindergarten through the early years of college. students can use our exercises, quizzes, and instructional videos to learn and master skills. they will get immediate feedback and encouragement. resources to support you during school closures. we are having daily (weekdays) 12 pm pt/3 est live streams on facebook, and youtube for students, parents, and teachers navigating school closures. here are guides we’ve created for you: parents • daily schedules for students ages 4-18 to keep learning using khan academy during school closures • parent quick start guide • parents: frequently asked questions about supporting your child’s learning during school closures • getting started with khan academy and khan academy kids for remote learning (webinar video recording) • information regarding sat administrations, and how to use khan official sat practice with your child amidst school closures. • upcoming webinar schedule • wednesday, april 1: setting a daily schedule for young kids ages 2-7 (8 pm et | 5 pm pt) • thursday, april 2: setting a daily schedule for elementary school students ages 8-10 (8 pm et | 5 pm pt) • friday, april 3: setting a daily schedule for middle school students ages 11-13 (6 pm et | 3 am pt) teachers • get a free teacher account • set-up your classroom for remote learning with our quick start guide and video • ask your questions to expert khan academy teachers: • monday, march 30: office hours: talk to an expert khan teacher (12 pm et | 9 am pt) • tuesday, march 31: office hours: talk to an expert khan teacher (7 pm et | 4 pm pt) • wednesday, april 1: webinar: khan academy best practices for elementary school (4 pm et | 1 pm pt) • thursday, april 2: webinar: khan academy best practices for middle school (4 pm et | 1 pm pt) • friday, april 3: webinar: khan academy best practices for high school (1 pm et | 10 am pt) • catch-up with some of our best recent professional learning sessions: • how one teacher helped his students ace math… by taking them back to kindergarten! • 7 tips for effective remote learning — from setting up a schedule to addressing the emotional impact • how to engage and motivate your students… even when you’re remote! khan academy is a free resource for students, teachers, and parents. what is khan academy? we offer exercises, quizzes, and tests so students can practice and master skills, as well as instructional videos to help students learn or review material. • khan academy has a library of standards-aligned lessons covering kindergarten through early college math, grammar, science, history, ap® courses, sat® preparation, and more. • students can practice skills with exercises, quizzes, and mastery challenges and get immediate feedback and support. • khan academy is available in 40 languages. • students without laptops can access the khan academy website or use the khan academy app on smart phones. teachers get tools and reports designed specifically for them. • teachers can easily assign students an entire course—algebra 1 or ap biology, for example—a specific unit, or a specific skill. • teachers can easily track student progress with our reports. school and teacher resources: how can you use khan academy? we have several resources including a step-by-step welcome guide and a series of online videos featuring real teachers demonstrating how to use khan academy to assign instructional videos and practice skills and monitor student progress. all these resources are available at teacher essentials. teachers can also join our #teachwithkhan facebook group. how to get started: 1) create free accounts from our home page. 2) take a tour of our free content. 3) check out our teacher and parent resources, and learn how you can easily assign students a course to master. more questions? visit our help center. khan academy kids for early learners if you have a child ages two to seven, we recommend our free app, khan academy kids. in addition to building early literacy, reading, writing, language, and math skills, the app encourages creativity and builds social-emotional skills. it is 100% free, with no ads and no in-app purchases. khan academy kids is available on itunes, google play, and the amazon app store. khan academy is a nonprofit organization. our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. with more than one billion children world-wide being impacted by school closures, we are experiencing soaring demand for our free resources. our ability to quickly increase our services is made possible by bank of america, at&t, google.org and novartis. if you are able, please consider making a donation. together, we can keep everyone learning. sincerely, the khan academy team department blogs coaching resources engineering international follow us subscribe to this blog join us on facebook follow us on twitter