call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact remortgage advice leeds freedom advice has over 20 years’ experience in providing professional and trustworthy remortgage advice to people living in leeds and yorkshire. there are a variety of reasons why you might choose to remortgage your home, including reducing the size of your loan to get a cheaper rate, or even to borrow more. things to consider deciding whether to remortgage it’s no secret that around a third of mortgages in the uk are actually remortgages, so choosing to remortgage can be a valuable option, but there are pros and cons that you must consider first. consider remortgaging your home if: your current deal is about to end: many of the best mortgages deals only last two to five years, so your lender may choose to put you on its standard variable rate (svr). if this is the case, you could find a cheaper rate elsewhere. you want a better rate: despite having to pay a repayment charge and an exit fee, you could still make huge savings. at freedom advice, we can find the best rates for you to help you save big. the value of your home has gone up: if the value of your property has gone up since you took out your mortgage, you could be in a loan-to-value band, which means you can enjoy lower rates. avoid taking out a remortgage if: there is a large early repayment charge: most loans have an early repayment charge, so it might not be financially viable to leave before the incentive period ends. we can help you understand and calculate the costs of a remortgage when an early repayment charge needs to be considered. if your mortgage debt is small: if your loan is below a certain amount it might not be worth taking out a remortgage. this is because the smaller your mortgage is, the higher the fees that you will have to pay. if the value of your home has dropped: the lower the value of your home, the amount that you owe will be bigger in proportion. additionally, you could be in negative equity, which means you owe more than the value of your home. why choose freedom advice totally flexible in our approach, our leeds office covers most of yorkshire and we can even arrange for a home visit should this be more suitable. from start to finish, our mortgage advisors work in your interest so you get the best rates for your personal situation. whether you are self employed or have a complicated financial situation we can help. authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, we’ve provided unbiased remortgage advice to countless homeowners in leeds and we compare the whole market, of thousands of mortgages, to get you the best possible deal. if you would like to know more about remortgages, or how we could help you through the remortgage process, call us on 0113 829 3465 or check out our contact page. call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.