skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: renovation aging in place: renovating with independence in mind getty images/mint images rf most americans settle in a home, envisioning a permanent life refuge. achieving this vision of aging in place, though, means preparing the home now to anticipate future needs. doing so successfully can allow older adults to remain independent, autonomous and in charge of… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in renovation how i renovated my kitchen – reader story did you update your bathroom? revamp your kitchen? install new flooring? we would love to share your project, big or small! send us what you did and our editorial team will consider it for our “my fresh home” series, which will be published every thursday. check out our submission instructions at th… by freshome team on march 20, 2020 in renovation how i extended my driveway – reader story did you update your bathroom? revamp your kitchen? install new flooring? we would love to share your project, big or small! send us what you did and our editorial team will consider it for our “my fresh home” series, which will be published every thursday. check out our submission instructions&… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in renovation how i created my own she-shed – reader story did you update your bathroom? revamp your kitchen? install new flooring? we would love to share your project, big or small! send us what you did and our editorial team will consider it for our “my fresh home” series, which will be published every thursday. check out our submission instructions&… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in renovation these are the most popular rooms to remodel – and the cost for each a new report by houzz reveals that kitchen renovations are still the most popular remodel – and also the most expensive. in 2018, the kitchen was the top interior room renovation among homeowners who renovated last year. the report also notes that costs are rising. “last year’s 10 percent… by terri williams on march 12, 2020 in renovation don’t waste your money on these renovation projects when you’re thinking of renovating a home, it’s easy to go overboard and perhaps waste your money on projects that don’t have a significant return on investment. aside from the roi factor, some partial renovations may actually leave your home in worse shape. this is a particular concern when you… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in renovation which diy projects are most likely to go over budget and why? while homeowners typically take on diy projects to save money, it turns out that many of them are breaking their fixer-upper budgets and spending much more than they planned, according to a recent survey by porch. while 5% of homeowners finished their fixer-upper projects under budget, and 52% finis… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in renovation contractor fraud expert warns of 7 home improvement scams to avoid when you’re planning a home improvement project, it’s wise to comparison shop for materials and labor. however, the zeal to save money can also lead you to work with unscrupulous contractors eager to take your money and run. how do you avoid home improvement scams? most homeowners believe that they… by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in renovation renovation stress? 8 tips to stay sane my husband and i are knee-deep in bathroom renovations and i’d be lying if i said it’s been smooth sailing. we’ve been plagued with scheduling delays and tile issues and our two-week reno has turned into a six-weeker. we’re finally wrapping it up now, but it’s been a st… by jae curtis on march 4, 2020 in renovation what no one tells you about flipping houses learn the secrets of house flipping. image: perry mastrovito/getty images we love binge-watching house flipping shows while dreaming of tackling a flip of our own. house flipping can be fun, and sometimes profitable, but your favorite shows don’t tell you everything you need to know before you jump… by diana hathaway on march 4, 2020 in renovation 1 2 3 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss