project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure trash to treasure repurposed jewelry organization ideas share pin cheap and easy repurposed jewelry organization ideas for some reason if my jewelry is displayed, i wear it more… probably because it’s right there for me to see and choose from, as opposed to a hanger in between my clothes that i forget about. i realized today that i had created several organization and storage options for my jewelry in my walk-in closet so i thought i’d share it today. hope you find these repurposed jewelry organization ideas inspirational and useful! let’s start with something new; one that i have never posted before. i got this cute cork board for christmas this year as a white elephant gift. i stared at it for days, because i didn’t really need it in the kitchen. here’s what i ended up doing with it. the earrings hung nicely, and i used little nails to hang the bracelet and rings. i found this cute metal chest of drawers at hobby lobby. i made little labels and use it for jewelry, hair accessories, and makeup. this is a little antique shopping vintage find i had to have. i use it for rings that i wear all the time. this one is also great for cotton swabs in the bathroom. thrift store transformations for your jewelry to match this little ring holder, i made this repurposed pedestal bowl out of some thrift store finds by gluing a candlestick and ramekin together with e6000. i also made this diy pedestal tray from thrift store finds, a plate and a candlestick. this was an old cabinet door that i repurposed into a jewelry display with some knobs and drawer pulls. i found it at habitat for humanity for next to nothing. simply paint and drill holes in it. insert the hardware of your choice. jewelry organization for travel lastly, since my husband and i travel often, i keep prescription bottle handy to put my jewelry in while we travel. here are some more repurposed prescription bottle ideas. these bottles are nice because they stay closed, and are small enough to fit in a makeup bag; the perfect size for rings and earrings. watch this organization video before you go this old dresser was given to me for free. i used it to organize craft supplies, but it’s also a great piece for your closet to organize jewelry due to the narrow velvet lined drawers. like it? pin it! note: this post was originally published on january 14, 2015 but been updated and improved. 6 comments join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « repurposed flower frog ideas next post: winter wreath for after christmas » reader interactions comments magdalena says january 20, 2015 at 5:38 am i love this chest of drawers, it looks so elegant yet modern at the same time : ) reply dinah wulf says january 20, 2015 at 8:08 am thank you so much, magdalena! reply almeera mae says january 22, 2015 at 4:32 pm the first one’s what i got. my board has just gotten bigger because i was inspired to put more earrings on it. 😀 i think i can now visit antique shops to have them all stored neatly. great ideas! 🙂 reply dinah wulf says january 22, 2015 at 4:49 pm thank you almeera! it’s so perfect for earrings! reply christi steger says january 31, 2015 at 10:16 am dinah, i love reading about all your ideas. i have followed your blog since lauren. s. pointed it out to a few years ago. i am reusing a kitchen pantry in a laundry/pantry room. we have removed all of the inside shelves and turning it into a free standing linen closet. one side of the pantry is exposed and i would like to turn that into a large magnetic chalkboard for our little granddaughter. i found vintage block letters for wordplay games, but not sure what is the best chalkboard paint to use. what is your experience with chalk board paint? reply dinah wulf says february 1, 2015 at 6:37 pm hi christi! thank you so much! i’m so glad you like it. i do love chalkboard paint. i have tried several, and i do love martha stewart’s the best. when i use it, i apply three coats, but i wait 2 hours in between coats and then after the last one, i wait 24 hours to use it. i’ve never had an issue with it and it works on many different surfaces. i hope this helps! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more