project gallery diy recycled diy upcycled diy repurposed diy refurbished diy diy furniture repurposed furniture thrift store transformations crafts doll crafts kids craft ideas paper crafts photo crafts mason jar crafts burlap crafts felt crafts stenciling gift wrapping printables party birthday party baby shower bridal shower wedding team sports sweets and treats cocktail corner holidays easter earth day cinco-de-mayo teacher appreciation mother’s day father’s day fourth of july back to school halloween thanksgiving elf on the shelf christmas new years valentine’s day st. patrick’s day home & garden storage & organization cleaning tips gardening makeovers kid stuff makeovers diy tips & tricks diy artwork curb appeal health & beauty health & wellness bath & body nav social menu facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube diy inspired repurpose, reinvent about contact advertising featured disclosure trash to treasure repurposed flower frog ideas share pin clever repurposed flower frog ideas not long ago, i posted some fun trash to treasure finds from when i went flea market shopping on instagram. i bought this green metal object even though i had no idea what it was. all i knew was that it interested me. it was industrial looking and also one of my favorite colors, green. this unusual piece had a farmhouse style that just made me attracted to it. i turned it over and saw that it was made by dazey manufacturing company in new york. so, i googled it and found that it is a flower frog. what the heck is a flower frog? i googled that and found that they are used inside bowls and vases to help arrange flowers and keep them into place… oh… and martha stewart collects them (thank goodness for google!)!! since i don’t arrange a lot of flowers i thought i’d think of some repurposed flower frog ideas and find some other ideas out there too. here is a round-up of some fun ideas, both my own and some others i found around the web. upcycled and repurposed flower frogs i love repurposed jewelry organization ideas. i turned it on its side and hung it on the wall. it holds fishhook earrings perfectly! here is a unique idea for party, shower, or wedding for holding table numbers. you can also mix it with flowers and create a small vignette on your table top. source: wedding table numbers use one in the kitchen to hold wooden spoons and other serving utensils. repurpose one in an office for desk top organization. source: desk organizer below is a different type of flower frog. i love how this one is us source: flower frog as decor i thought it would be cute in a farmhouse style bathroom as a toothbrush holder as well. source: etsy source: etsy repurposed flower frogs in the craft room lastly, i brought it into my craft room and found some fun uses for it including a paint brush holder, scissor organizer, and holder for markers . you may also like here are some more of my recent flea market finds: repurposed bed springs and chair springs flea market style ideas upcycling and repurposing ideas for lighting before you go check out this scissor organization video like it? pin it! note: this post was originally published on february 27, 2015 and was updated and improved. 10 comments join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy previous post: « diy wall sconces next post: repurposed jewelry organization ideas » reader interactions comments heather says march 1, 2015 at 6:28 am this is great!! i bought one of these years ago, and have always struggled to find the perfect use for it. thanks for this post!! reply dinah wulf says march 1, 2015 at 7:46 am so glad i could help! i just had to buy it too when i saw it, even though i had no clue what to do with it! reply t berokoff says march 5, 2015 at 2:43 pm oh my gosh! these are absolutely the best!!!!! i am excited to hit the flea markets and go shopping! reply dinah wulf says march 5, 2015 at 5:24 pm thanks, t! reply mikolaj says april 3, 2015 at 12:43 pm wow! looks nice but my girlfriend can’t see this…! 😀 reply megan says april 30, 2015 at 1:22 pm i use the pointy part (meant for a flower stem) to hold my incense sticks! it works perfectly with the thicker sticks and keeps them upright so when they ash… it doesn’t go everywhere! reply dinah wulf says april 30, 2015 at 1:40 pm great idea!! reply melissa page says july 16, 2015 at 1:50 am great tip! i love how you’ve repurposed an otherwise “junk” item at home. i especially adore the use of flower frog in organizing and displaying dangling earrings. reply dinah wulf says july 23, 2015 at 7:53 am thank you, melissa! reply cynthia walker says march 11, 2020 at 9:19 pm great creativity! thanks for sharing! if i see any of these items out and about now, i know how i can use them. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. primary sidebar welcome! thank you for visiting! i'm dinah and i am a full time mother, blogger and writer. i'm honored to be named one of mashable's 10 mom blogs full of inspiring advice. {read more about me here} join our community of crafters! stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address disclosure and privacy policy stay updated and never miss a thing! first name last name e-mail address footer you might also love these photo bookmark diy gift idea 12 spring craft ideas for adults diy wood slice bunnies diy iron-on baby t shirts with printable 3 awesome photo cake topper ideas copyright © 2020 · divine theme by restored 316 copyright © 2005–2020 diy inspired. installed and customized by tcn design studio we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okread more