contact sales request a hubspot speaker tell us about your event. hosting an upcoming event? think your guests would like to hear from someone at hubspot? check out the faqs to get a better idea of how our speaker program works, and see if hubspot is a good fit for your next event. we can’t jump on every opportunity that comes our way, but we’ll try our best to find the perfect hubspotter for you. so submit a request, and we’ll see how we can help. faqs if i submit a form, am i guaranteed to have a hubspotter speak at my event? hubspotters love taking on speaking engagements, but unfortunately, there aren’t enough speakers to commit to every event so we won’t be able to guarantee a speaker for your event. what would make my event request a good fit for hubspot? we ultimately decide that an event is a good fit if the opportunity is worth the investment. for example, if an engagement is out-of-state, it may require more travel time and costs, so we like to speak to larger audiences of about 250+ attendees. typically, events with fewer than 100 attendees won’t be a great fit. we also consider the content of your event, the audience makeup, and the lead time. do i have to pay for a speaker? no, we don’t charge a speaker fee. if your organization has budget for speaker travel or lodging, we greatly appreciate it, but do not require any cost on your part. what topics can hubspotters talk about? our speakers are experts on any topic under the inbound marketing, sales, and service umbrella, including: social media, blogging, content creation, analytics, email marketing, marketing automation, seo, inbound overview, sales technology, scaling sales, video selling, customer service, customer success, help desk process, customer feedback analysis, and much more. it won’t be a sales pitch, will it? nope! our speakers focus on best practices that your attendees can apply to their own sales and marketing strategies, not hubspot software or tools. can i get an executive to speak at my event? our executive team has very busy schedules, so we can’t offer their time for event requests, but speakers from support, services, academy, sales, and marketing will give your attendees a ton of valuable information to walk away with. copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy