live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → reseller hosting reseller plans are designed for you to earn money aluminum plan now 33% off! 60 gb disk space 600 gb bandwidth unlimited domains free ssl certificate starting at $19.95/mo* buy now! copper plan now 41% off! 90 gb disk space 900 gb bandwidth unlimited domains free ssl certificate starting at $24.95/mo* buy now! silver plan now 58% off! 140 gb disk space 1400 gb bandwidth unlimited domains free ssl certificate starting at $24.95/mo* buy now! features technical specs compare all plans read more start your own web hosting company! make money by hosting your own clients! a hostgator reseller plan is a great way for you to earn money on the side, or even become your own full-time web hosting company. acquire your own hosting clients, or if you're a web designer you can use a reseller web hosting plan to add value for your existing and future customers. choose hostgator to start your own business! whm allows you to create cpanels for each of your clients. whmcs can help facilitate the billing aspect of your reseller hosting business. powerful tools reseller web hosting plans include everything you need, from whm to billing software. flexibility you control the overall resource allocation to best fit your clients' needs. scalability it is always free and easy to upgrade; your hosting grows as your business grows. run your business any way you want! a hostgator reseller web hosting plan gives you complete control over every aspect of your hosting business, from resource allocation to payment methods and what (if any) additional services you choose to provide your clients (domains, ssl certificates, etc.). technical specifications reseller hosting features unmetered domains, subdomains, email accounts, mysql databases, ftp accounts flexible, easy to use control panel 99.9% uptime guarantee no contract with a 45-day money-back guarantee private name servers based on your domain free with each reseller plan free whmcs client management / billing software whm control panel latest whm control panel with multi-language availability monitor server status limit packages, specify disk space, bandwidth, email, databases, and other features complete control: password modification, dns, account creation / termination brandable client panel with your company logo cpanel control panel latest cpanel control panel (view demo) website statistics: awstats, webalizer, raw log manager, referrer and error logs instant shopping carts, blogs, portals, forums and counters password protected directories and custom error pages web based file manager, hotlink protection, ip deny manager, redirect url programming & databases unlimited mysql databases with phpmyadmin access programming language: cgi, fast cgi, php 5 and 7, ruby on rails, perl, python, ssl programming modules: curl, cpan, gd library, imagemagick system management: ssh access and cron job scheduling email features unlimited pop3 email accounts with smtp webmail access: horde, roundcube receive your email to your phone via imap support prevent spam with spamassassin unlimited autoresponders, mail forwards, email aliases, 25 mailing lists award-winning support 24/7/365 premium support via phone and live chat automatic weekly off-site data backups 24/7/365 server monitoring online support portal with over 500+ video tutorials and 680+ help articles free reseller club account 70+ gtlds & cctlds to resell transfers at cost & up to 80% off on registrations (view details) 700+ new gtlds from a single account (view details) easy integration through whmcs, api or storefront reseller plan comparison aluminium copper silver disk space 60 gb 90 gb 140 gb bandwidth 600 gb 900 gb 1400 gb domains unlimited unlimited unlimited first month $19.95/mo* $24.95/mo* $24.95/mo* frequently asked questions what is reseller hosting? reseller hosting, sometimes referred to as white label hosting, allows you to create your own web hosting company without having to incur the costs of server maintenance, software, site uptime, and more. reseller hosting is perfect for freelancers or agencies offering web design, development, and other business services to their clients. with reseller hosting, clients purchase and host their websites through you as if you were the hosting company. can i make money with reseller hosting? yes, that's definitely the idea! reseller hosting is designed for you to make money. you get to promote your own brand, receive ongoing income from your customers, and bundle hosting with other services you offer. whmcs is a comprehensive client management and billing software that we include for free with all hostgator reseller plans. what's the difference between reseller hosting and your affiliate program? with reseller hosting, you essentially set up your own web hosting business, with hostgator working behind the scenes to provide the technology. our affiliate program, on the other hand, allows you to refer clients directly to hostgator in exchange for a commission of up to $125 per signup. reseller hosting is a good option if you prefer ongoing income and want to offer more services to your clients. if you don't want to worry about providing technical support for the customer and just wish to send referrals from your own website, our affiliate program may be a better fit for you. *prices reflect discount on first term, vat not included. hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.