content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip by megan mahoney published march 24, 2020 7 free ways to get original data for your content using original data in your content marketing can deliver big results. it doesn’t have to cost you a thing. the catch? you need to be clever just like these six marketing experts who share seven examples. continue reading → by kim moutsos published march 11, 2020 tech marketers reveal their secret weapons [new research] 76% of tech marketers say their content marketing is more successful than it was a year ago. learn what goal and content type the most successful tech marketers are achieving better than the rest, and much more. continue reading → by cathy mcphillips published february 26, 2020 most agencies bet on this distribution model [new research] how do agencies use content marketing to promote their own businesses? read on to learn. discover how many use paid distribution models, which social media platform brings in the most business, and much more. continue reading → by stephanie stahl published february 5, 2020 optimal customer experience? content marketing plays a role [new enterprise research] what role does content marketing play in delivering an optimal experience across the buyer journey? we investigated that and more in our latest research – enterprise content marketing 2020: benchmarks, budgets, and trends. continue reading → by robert rose published december 11, 2019 2020 b2c content marketing: an excellent adventure [new research] in cmi’s just-released b2c content marketing 2020: benchmarks, budgets, and trends report, we noticed some bodacious correlations to bill and ted’s excellent adventure. read on. continue reading → by robert rose published december 2, 2019 the demand-gen content investment: good to great? [new research] have demand-generation marketers moved their content marketing from good to great in the past year? see for yourself in cmi’s 2019 demand-generation research. continue reading → by lisa murton beets published november 6, 2019 what’s happening in manufacturing content marketing [new research] find out the top challenges and improvements made in manufacturing content marketing. learn organizational content priorities, outsourcing activities, and more in manufacturing content marketing 2020: benchmarks, budgets, and trends. continue reading → by robert rose published october 29, 2019 are marketers just waiting to speak? tips for active audience listening [research] are you listening or just waiting to speak? too many of us are waiting. doing the same in our marketing. we’re “waiting to content” rather than really listening to the audience we’re trying to serve. it’s time to change that. continue reading → by stephanie stahl published october 22, 2019 2020 b2b content marketing: what the successful do [new research] the newly released 2020 b2b benchmarks, budgets, and trends – north america offers a wealth of data to help plans in the coming year. learn what your peers are doing (or not doing) and what distinguishes the top performers. continue reading → by susan moeller published september 30, 2019 get more traffic from instagram with this easy content plan how do you get traffic from instagram, which seems designed to keep users inside the platform forever? follow the value framework. and do it with your existing blog content. here’s how to make the translation and grow your followers. continue reading → 1 2 3 4 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree