advanced search resilience: new paths for building and sustaining individual and organizational capacity kelly l. zellars, logan justice, tammy e. beck the role of individual differences in occupational stress and well being isbn: 978-0-85724-711-7, eisbn: 978-0-85724-712-4 issn: 1479-3555 publication date: 10 august 2011 abstract the concept of resilience has exploded in the popular press covering topics from sports to the environment to the economy. organizational scholars across disciplines have joined the discussion, but much remains unknown about the ability to build resilience capacity at work. individual and organizational resilience is challenged by a world in constant flux, and having the ability to navigate unexpected or significant change is vital for success and well-being. this chapter explores several promising avenues of research to gain a better understanding of factors that build resilience capacity at work. we take an interdisciplinary approach to examine leadership, job crafting, and humor, through the lens of sensemaking, as a means to increase resilience capacity. citation zellars, k., justice, l. and beck, t. (2011), "resilience: new paths for building and sustaining individual and organizational capacity", perrewé, p. and ganster, d. (ed.) the role of individual differences in occupational stress and well being (research in occupational stress and well being, vol. 9), emerald group publishing limited, bingley, pp. 1-37. https://doi.org/10.1108/s1479-3555(2011)0000009005 download as .ris publisher : emerald group publishing limited copyright © 2011, emerald group publishing limited please note you might not have access to this content you may be able to access this content by login via shibboleth, open athens or with your emerald account. login if you think you should have access to this content, click the button to contact our support team. contact us opens in new window opens in new window opens in new window opens in new window © 2020 emerald publishing limited services authors opens in new window editors opens in new window librarians opens in new window researchers opens in new window reviewers opens in new window about about emerald opens in new window working for emerald opens in new window contact us opens in new window publication sitemap policies and information privacy notice site policies modern slavery act opens in new window × share feedback we’re listening — tell us what you think something didn’t work… report bugs here all feedback is valuable please share your general feedback member of emerald’s library advisory network? you can start or join in a discussion here. if you’d like to know more about the network, please email us join us on our journey platform update page visit emeraldpublishing.com/platformupdate to discover the latest news and updates frequently asked questions your questions answered here