skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about helpful resources & guides for bloggers & web owners of all levels over the last 5 years, i’ve been creating a lot of useful guides and articles about blogging and web design. here on my resources page i have listed all the guides that i feel will provide you with the most value when it comes to developing your blogs and websites. if you’re interested in getting started with a blog or website then the useful links below will help. starting a website or blog below are my main tutorials on makeawebsitehub.com that will show you exactly how to get your own website or blog up-and-running in less than 30 minutes. how to make a wordpress website: the easiest & simplest way to set up a new website. how to start a blog: guide to setting up a blog and getting started with blogging. how to build an online store with shopify: check this guide to set everything up. how to make an amazon affiliate website: this tutorial will help you with getting started with amazon associates. what is a blog?: still not sure exactly what a blog is? this guide will help ease your curiosity. blogging glossary: common terms used by bloggers and online marketers defined into plain english blogging tips: a great list of actionable tips that new bloggers can use with ease to create a successful blog. crear un blog: the spanish version of my hugely successful how to start a blog guide. domains and web hosting these articles and pages were all put together to help people learn more about web hosting and domain names. bluehost hosting review: the web hosting company that i currently use and recommend. they’re cheap ($2.95/mo) and throw in a free domain name – try bluehost today. best web hosting: if you are looking for a web hosting company for your new online project then i’ve reviewed over 20 different providers. best wordpress hosting: i’ve reviewed a range of different web hosting companies from managed wordpress hosting providers to shared web hosting – wp engine is one of my favourites. best domain registrars: an overview of 12 different domain registrars to determine which you should use for your domains. hosting coupons and deals: my latest web hosting exclusive deals and offers bluehost coupons: all my latest bluehost related deals on hosting. cheap web hosting: looking for cheap web hosting for your next project? i review some of the latest deals from under $3 per month how to setup a free email address: learn how to setup a free email address for your business with bluehost and hostgator best blog name generators: i reviewed some of the most popular free domain and blog name generators to help you come up with a great name for your new website how to register a domain name: i show you step by step how to get started with registering your next domain name how to set up a professional email address: your business card would be remiss without one. i’ll show you how to set one up in minutes. top level domain extensions: an up to date list of a wide range of top level domain (tld) extensions and their latest pricing. what is a domain name?: a breakdown of what a domain name is and how they work. domain value: a guide on how to get a true valuation of your domain name. what is a parked domain name. how to sell a domain name: step by step guide on how you can profit from selling domain names. google domains review: detailed look at google domains service. website platforms not sure on which platform to use for building your website or blog? these articles might help you find the right one for you. wordpress vs joomla vs drupal: there are many content management systems to use for a new website. here’s a breakdown of the pros and cons of the three most popular options. top blogging sites: i’ve reviewed and compared most of the big blogging platforms such as wordpress, weebly,ghost and more… best ecommerce builders: a run down of the latest ecommerce website builders such as shopify, volusion and bigcommerce shopify vs. wordpress: shopify is easy to use, but wordpress offers more flexibility. which one should you choose, and why? best website builders: if you don’t want to build your own website from scratch there are a whole host of website builders now on the market. i have used my own money to sign up and review them all. weebly vs wix vs squarespace vs wordpress: i give a run down of the pros and cons of each of these 4 popular website and blogging platforms. wordpress theme detector: if you see a website you like the look of, use this tool to find out what wordpress themes and plugins they are using. wordpress.com vs wordpress.org: which platform is better for you? we compare the two versions of wordpress. wordpress tutorials wordpress is my number 1 choice for building a website or blog, so over the years i’ve written quite a few tutorials on how you can get the most out of it. how to install wordpress: this tutorial will show you how to install wordpress on to your web hosting account. wordpress installation checklist: this handy checklist will help you to make sure you launch your new wordpress site right first time how to setup yoast seo on wordpress: this tutorial will show you how to install the popular wordpress plugin properly. how to speed up wordpress: lots of tricks and tips to help you make your wordpress website faster. beginners guide to wordpress security: how to secure your wordpress website from hackers and malware. wordpress .htaccess optimisation tips: some handy advanced tips to make your wordpress site faster and more secure. where to learn wordpress: a list of useful wordpress resources and places to learn wordpress. how to change the text color and size in wordpress: a simple tutorial to teach you how to change the color or size of your fonts. how to delete a wordpress blog: simple guide that shows you how to delete your old wordpress website. wordpress glossary: all the terms associated with wordpress and setting up your own wordpress website. making money online once you have built your website or blog you might want to learn how to make money from it. how to make money blogging: a list of great ways to monetise your blogging efforts. how to make money online: 102+ ways that you can make money online. best affiliate networks: a comparison of some of the biggest and best affiliate marketing programs and networks. what is affiliate marketing?: a guide to making money with affiliate marketing great online business ideas: one of my most popular posts – a list of online businesses you could start 70+ ways to make extra money: want to make some extra money every month? this list of ideas might help. how to earn bitcoin: a guide on how you can earn extra money buy earning bitcoin. best bitcoin exchanges: fancy making money online through trading cyrpto? find out what the best exchanges are for trading. coinbase alternatives: coinbase is one of the biggest bitcoin exchanges around. but is there a better alternative? best bitcoin affiliate programs: find out what the best bitcoin affiliate programs are on this comprehensive guide. etsy alternatives: how to sell your items beyond etsy: a guide where i show you the different web platforms you can use to sell on other than etsy. how to make money doing paid surveys: doing surveys online can add up to a decent amount of additional income each month. see which ones i recommend you do. how to build an amazon affiliate website: we cover everything you need to know to start your very own profitable amazon affiliate website. how to make money on instagram: every way i know how to make money using the instagram platform. 80+ ways to build up a lucrative email list: easy strategies to building up your own email list. passive income ideas: ways of making money while you sleep. amazon associates guide: everything you need to know about amazon affiliate program. how to start a business: an extensive guide on just how you could start your very own business. best online jobs: a list of jobs that you can do fully online and without the need to travel to and from work. how to make money on twitch: an epic guide on how twitch.tv works and how you can earn cash from streaming your gaming adventures. how to start a vlog: ever wanted to start your own youtube channel and become a vlogger? well this guide tells you how to do just that! how to sell your photos online: if you’re a photographer wanting to make money from your images online, then this is the guide for you. web design resources i have compiled a list of some of my go to posts for people interested in learning more about web design. free web design cheat sheets: a range of cheat sheets i have created over the past 3 years to help bloggers, designers and developers. free web design tools: i’ve created a whole range of free to use tools for web designers and web developers. they can all be found on this page. how to become a web developer: a quick overview of great resources to learn how to become a web developer and get your first web development jobs. best text editors comparison: a comparison of all the text editors out there. best web design software: a list of the web design software and tools i recommend and use myself. learning to code for free: i’ve compiled a list of free resources for learning where to code for free, from moocs to cool websites and ebooks. this is a great resource to get you started. how much does a website cost: a complete guide on the possible costs of building a website. best landing page builders: need to create high converting landing pages and sales funnels? check out this in-depth guide. social media resources best social media management tools: if you are managing multiple social media accounts you will want to check this list of handy tools. social image sizes cheat sheet: each of the social networking sites have their own optimum image dimensions, this cheat sheet puts them all in one place for you. list of social media sites: a list of social networking sites that you might want to check out for meeting new people or getting traffic to your website. best times to post on social media: i’ve compiled a list of the optimum times of day to post on the different social media sites such as twitter, facebook and pinterest. instagram tools: a list of some of the best instagram tools on the web from companies like sendible to crowdfire, which help you to grown your audience on social media. email marketing resources best email hosting: a review list of the best email hosting providers on the web convertkit review easy ways to build your email list how to create a professional custom email domain address web hosting review resources bluehost review hostgator review cloudways review greengeeks review a2 hosting review wpengine review inmotion review westhost review purehost review ipage review hostmonster review namecheap review bluehost vs godaddy bluehost vs hostgator bluehost vs dreamhost hostgator vs dreamhost dreamhost review hostinger review siteground review best month to month web hosting best uk web hosting providers best web hosting for australia best free web hosting sites best eig alternatives for web hosting and domain registration web hosting companies that accept paypal payments best dedicated server hosting best vps hosting vpn reviews & resources best vpn service providers best vpn for uae users best vpn for uk users best vpn for netflix best vpn kodi best vpn for spotify best vpn for gaming best cheap vpns what is a vpn? how to set up a vpn nordvpn vs pia surfshark vpn review ivacy vpn review nordvpn review purevpn review ipvanish coupon codes if you have any questions or feedback please use the contact page. best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub