home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy all posts in "resources for writers" gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity resources for writers by mary jaksch do you feel anxious about the future? what if you could decrease your anxiety by writing a gratitude continue reading > 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 resources for writers tips for writers by laura tong give me six hours to chop down a tree and i will spend the first four sharpening the axe.read more: http://www.searchquotes.com/search/sharpening_your_axe/#ixzz4zgbaqr5rhere continue reading > is blogging dead or alive in 2019? become a top blogger resources for writers by mary jaksch is blogging dead?is it time to dig a grave and sing hymns for blogs or to celebrate a revival of blogging?you’d continue reading > top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done resources for writers tips for writers by laura tong working out the greatest posts ever published on this blog wasn’t easy.in fact, it was a monumental continue reading > a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] resources for writers tips for writers by sierra delarosa how many books did you read in 2018? although writing more is perhaps the best way to write better, continue reading > how to find great images for your site (without getting sued) resources for writers tips for writers by anthony bergs note from the editor: we all want to find great images for our author site or blog. however, knowing continue reading > 13 free tools for authors that take the pain out of self-publishing resources for writers tips for writers by dave chesson i started my author career as a father of three and military man deployed overseas. as you can imagine, continue reading > how to make money as a writer (even if you’ve never earned a dime) resources for writers tips for writers by sierra delarosa we can often feel as though there must be some secret recipe to make money as a writer. we try continue reading > 25 top tools for writers to crush it in 2019 resources for writers tips for writers by laura tong "a writer is a tool of the language rather than the other way around." ~joseph brodsky note: continue reading > 176 tips to make you a better writer resources for writers tips for writers by mary jaksch i assume as a subscriber to writetodone you want to be a better writer? or maybe your writing is perfect? i continue reading > join over 2 million readers get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares 1 2 3 next » page 1 of 3 copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions >