toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog january 1, 2015 \ lorraine \ 16 comments resources for #writers (#authors and #freelancers) last updated on: december 20th, 2019 resources for writers are plentiful. you can find almost anything using google! that said, there are too many writing resources to list here, but i’d like to point out that this is one of the most comprehensive lists for writers of all types — freelancers and authors alike. great one for bloggers, freelancers, and authors alike: the following post is also a great one for bloggers, freelancers, and authors: google authorship: the complete handbook for getting respect, readers, and rankings. because freelancing is a business, here’s a list of 55 directories you can submit your business profile to: the most important local business directories for seo. the following lists of resources are very useful. >>>go to top of writing resources >>>go to top of freelance resources >>>go to top of author resources writing resources the top 55 apps for writers in 2016 the 120 most helpful websites for writers in 2015 10 awesome editing tips + 10 best editing tools for #writers and #bloggers 8 great writing tools to keep you motivated to write some fun writing tools to get you in the #writing mood >>>go to top of writing resources >>>go to top of freelance resources >>>go to top of author resources check out this fabulous list of #writing resources! click to tweet freelance resources here is a list of free freelance resources that will help you start earning money from your writing: 30 days or less to freelance writing success freelancer’s survival guide security tips for freelance writers and other #entrepreneurs how to earn more from your writing: the simple yet neglected secret 100+ websites that pay writers 7 websites that list freelance writing opportunities 57 blogs that will pay you $50 or more 30 sites that will pay to write for them, right now. 20 awesome tools to use when joining the freelance world as a blogger 192 publications that actually pay freelance writers articles about freelancing worth reading: why submitting a resumé might not get you the job what to do when your freelance blogging career is going nowhere how i have created strong client relationships >>>go to top of writing resources >>>go to top of freelance resources >>>go to top of author resources check out this fabulous list of #freelancing resources! click to tweet author resources here is a list of free writing resources for authors and aspiring authors (and self-publishers): all about self-publishing discoverability series advice for writers: a list of posts by author mike wells how to be a writer: 201 compelling tips free resources for writers how to make your own free book cover in ms word i’ve written a book, how do i publish it? from word to jutoh: ebook creation made easy and getting started with jutoh: a list of resources and a cheat sheet amazon author central refresher course advertising on goodreads how to prepare a novel for publication in ten sort-of-easy steps how to develop an elevator pitch for your book what’s an elevator pitch for your book? how to hire an editor, part 1: know what you need how to hire an editor, part 2: ask questions how to check your ebook formatting before pushing the publish button how to make your book signing event completely successful how to write a news release how to make a quick but usable cover in publisher how to plan and execute a blog tour writing your bio ebook formatting 101 a helping hand…dot dot dot, dash dash dash…s.o.s! (note that cmos refers to chicago manual of style) formatting the look inside (feature on amazon) have others promote your book – how to get reviews how to price your indie book uploading your book to the google play store how to make life easy for librarians so your book gets in libraries 5 reasons your blog needs a kindle book analysis: 16 kindle book marketing strategies (dissected and graded) how to publish an ebook: 5 steps to successful self-publishing check out this fabulous list of #author resources! click to tweet other writing resources: practical typography some fun tools for you to use: pacemaker (a writing tool to help you plan your progress and amount of words you need to write) written, kitten! (to give you the boost you need!) pomodoro timer 8 great writing tools to keep you motivated to write ———————————– >>>go to top of writing resources >>>go to top of freelance resources >>>go to top of author resources please don’t forget to share this post! freelancing, writing \ author resources, freelancing, indie author resources, writing about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 16 thoughts on “resources for #writers (#authors and #freelancers)” natalie says july 10, 2019 at 10:03 am wow so helpful! this came at the right time for us, a lot of really helpful resources here, thank you! natalie recently posted…travel photography for beginners – an ultimate packing list reply lorraine says july 13, 2019 at 10:42 am natalie, there are tons of gems listed here! thanks for sharing. 🙂 reply amas dave says july 28, 2017 at 11:13 am thank you for providing the list above. i hope to get the best from it. have a nice day dear. reply lorraine says september 10, 2017 at 3:37 am good luck to you, amas! i’m glad you like these. 🙂 reply imran soudagar says june 25, 2016 at 5:24 pm thank you for sharing this huge list of resources, i am just getting started as a professional writer and blogger. i think reading and using these resources will help me improve. thank you imran soudagar recently posted…writing 101: learn how to become a writer reply lorraine says june 28, 2016 at 1:22 am imran, there are many resources available to writers. i’m sure you will learn a lot from these! best of luck to you with your freelance writing career! 🙂 reply bill says august 4, 2015 at 6:04 am free lance writing has become a major employment resource for many people. it however is not that easy to become an effective freelance writer because one is required to be skilled and have reliable clients for their work. in some cases, it could be a total waste of time and resources if mismanaged. good guidance such as this is therefore needed for newbies. as a young freelance writer, i so much want to learn from these resources. thank you for the update. reply lorraine says august 6, 2015 at 10:20 am bill, i’d suggest improving your writing by starting to capitalize your sentences! reply kirsty stuart says february 3, 2015 at 6:55 am thanks for the mention lorraine. great list! reply lorraine says february 3, 2015 at 6:32 pm kirsty, you’re welcome. thanks! reply carol tice | make a living writing says january 1, 2015 at 8:42 pm thanks for the mention — but want to note that the 100 websites post was updated a few months back — here’s a more current version, with 140 markets: http://www.makealivingwriting.com/140-websites-that-pay-writers-updated-2014/ reply lorraine says january 2, 2015 at 1:27 am thank you, carol! happy new year, too… and may you have a successful and happy 2015! reply brenda lee says january 1, 2015 at 3:14 pm hi lorraine and happy new year! this is a fabulous list of resources for writers, authors, and bloggers alike! i’m saving it to pocket for future reference. thank you so much! bren reply lorraine says january 1, 2015 at 5:59 pm brenda lee, i’m glad you like this list! i know you will find it useful! happy new year to you, too! ps. you are the winner of december’s contest for free editing, so please watch your email for instructions! reply nicholas rossis says january 1, 2015 at 5:46 am thank you for including my post, how to price your indie book, in your excellent list of resources! i hope the new year brings nothing but success! 🙂 reply lorraine says january 1, 2015 at 5:55 pm nicholas, you are welcome! i hope you find this list useful. success to you, too! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy