toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog resource kit last updated on: january 28th, 2020 on this page, you will find a well of information! 😉 there is something for everyone here, so please peruse these informative resources at your leisure. and if you want to be a guest or publish a sponsored post on wording well, let me know! but read my guest posting guidelines first! if you want me to add a link to any of my posts, i can do that, too, for a fee. see my write/advertise page. if you want to learn how to become a freelance editor, read this and sign up to my interest list! freebies be sure to grab your freebie from how to find a good work-life balance (+ a free workbook/planner). download click here to get your free workbook/planner also, grab a list of 17 additional self-editing tips from 5 self-editing hacks to boost your blog writing (+ a free checklist!) download click here to get your 17 bonus tips! and get your free checklist for writing, blogging, and formatting your blog post for seo from how to develop a great writing and blogging process. download download your checklist for writing, blogging, and formatting your blog post for seo paid tools to grow your business create quizzes like the ones you see on facebook all the time, and use them to build your email list. interact quizzes makes it simple to create and share quizzes, and they have integrations with all the email marketing programs for managing your new subscribers. (note that this is an affiliate link.) there are 8 sections to this resource kit (+ freebies above): blogging (general) blogging (tutorials) freelancing writing editing author stuff business/entrepreneurship productivity and self-help this resource kit contains awesomeness. no joke! the tutorials include tons of images and videos. they are very easy to follow. why i created this resource kit being a non-techie, i like to help others learn. especially when i have learned the hard way. there’s no point in all of us struggling! 😉 let me know which resources you find helpful. tell me in the comments. tell me on social media. share my posts with others, too! i want your feedback so that i can continue to create wonderful things for you! 1: blogging (general) 5 things new bloggers need to know 5 website changes you need to make asap the essence of blogging (+ how to earn money online) how to develop a great writing and blogging process. 6 ways to use visuals to boost traffic to your blog 6 tips for how to improve your website speed blogging resources + how to start a blog (if you don’t already have one) 10 effective strategies to becoming a successful blogger benefits of using “about.me” (+ how to get the widget + social media buttons for your blog) #howto capture audience attention through proper blog content formatting 40+ wordpress design and development tools & resources for savvy bloggers the top 5 deadly blogging mistakes you might be making (and how to fix them) 8 benefits of having guest bloggers (and how to find them) seo rules for blogging success why bloggers should write using a conversational tone 10 tips for an amazing “about me” page 5 types of content that will boost your blog’s traffic 3 reasons why posting daily on your blog won’t work what do you do when someone steals your content? 5 blogging tips for busy college students 3 essential articles every website needs to make money online 7 powerful copywriting tips you can apply today to become a better blogger 2: blogging tutorials how to use content upgrades to build your email list (+ a tutorial!) the ultimate guide to infographics (includes 10 tools + 5 tutorials!) how to create image quotes for your blog posts #tutorial with #video how to use “click-to-tweet” links in your blog posts (for free) how to customize the size of your blog post images #video #tutorial how to highlight text in your blog posts: 4 easy methods how to add images to your sidebar how to compress your blog post images (using 1. bulk optimize and 2. pixlr express) >>> these tutorials are found within the post 5 website changes you need to make asap 3: freelancing write your way to your first 1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success bamidele’s lists of where to get paid to write (websites that pay writers) resources for #writers (#authors and #freelancers) earn $4k a month like “f.i.t.s.” series #freelancewriter gina horkey how to ask for a raise (and get one!) from your #freelancing client security tips for freelance writers and other entrepreneurs 10 lessons learned from my first freelancing client (who was both my worst and best client) 5 freelance mistakes that are killing your creativity cv and résumé faqs for freelancers 6 ways for how to search for clients as a freelance writer 11 things you can do to achieve more success as a freelance writer a taxation guide for new freelancers in the usa 10 ways to find a high-paying freelancing job start freelancing to change your life! (featuring a true story) what to do when your writing business grows too big for its britches 4: writing how to develop a great writing and blogging process. writer’s block (+ the 10 best ways to overcome it) 20 ways to be a master writer and improve your writing skills 17 of the best websites to bring back your writing inspiration resources for #writers (#authors and #freelancers) 8 great writing tools to keep you motivated to write some fun writing tools to get you in the #writing mood readability: how “readable” is your writing? why you should (+ how to) act immediately when hit with inspiration 3 ways for becoming a more productive writer 5 sites to use to improve your writing skills 4 essential writing tools that will help you reach your writing goals how to optimize your writing time to achieve your writing goals how to make money as a writer (infographic) 5: editing 5 self-editing hacks to boost your blog writing (+ a free checklist!) plagiarism (vs fair use): what bloggers need to know 10 tips for editing an academic essay 10 awesome editing tips + 10 best editing tools for #writers and #bloggers 12 benefits of being a freelance editor 6: author information how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) 5 ways for creating an awesome book title (+ which tools to use) 4 phases to a successful online author’s life (+ how to become an author) can you be a freelance writer and a fiction writer? you bet! 7: business/entrepreneurship a 12-section guide to branding your business online why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) 9 reasons why making friends with clients is important how to make money blogging by doing nothing but using adsense how to achieve entrepreneurial excellence – 3 ways 6 ways for how to think and act like an entrepreneur how blogging can help your business thrive 7 common blunders to avoid when business blogging learn how to create, launch, and sell a course the smart way 26 phone apps that make life easier (for blogging or business) 4 simple ways for small businesses to protect themselves online cyber crime and cyber security for entrepreneurs how slow site speed can hurt your business (+ an infographic) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) 8: productivity and self-help how to succeed even when you feel like giving up 15 tips for effectively managing your precious time 4 productivity apps designed to help you succeed how to use positive affirmations to improve your life use meditation, the law of attraction, and visualization to be more successful 3 ways to change your mindset and become more successful open oceans of opportunity by being vulnerable and honest 7 ways for building relationships with influencers how to succeed even when you feel like giving up where to find the motivation to work how to find a good work-life balance (+ a free workbook/planner) i offer a free e-book to my blog subscribers, along with other goodies free of charge in some of my emails… so pick up your copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! and don’t forget that i’m a a freelance blogger, writer, and editor for hire. (and an author who can help you create an e-book to give away on your site, sell, and even turn into a print book… to help you earn passive income.) wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy 50% complete click here to get your free workbook/planner immediately get access to this free workbook/planner! get it now we guarantee 100% privacy. your information will not be shared. powered by content upgrades pro download: a checklist of 17 editing tips for writers get your free copy of this checklist to improve your writing! get it now we guarantee 100% privacy. your information will not be shared. powered by content upgrades pro checklist for writing, blogging, and formatting your blog post for seo enter your name and e-mail address below to receive your free copy of this ebook. get it now we will never spam you! you're info is safe with us! :) powered by content upgrades pro