skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources resume experience freelance, august 2001-present writer, professional blogger write magazine, newspaper, and online articles, ebook content, and web content write for a variety of corporate blogs, and for my own personal finance blogs. write book chapters. ghostwrite web content and books. edit articles and manuscripts for a variety of media (including greenhaven press) student projects at syracuse university, august 2004-july 2005. managing editor, lake life student publication front of the book editor, spark student publication. develop, write for, and edit pieces for two student magazines. copy-editing duties as needed use indesign to make changes to editorial text and design layouts build a web site using flash employment cedar city daily news, cedar city, ut, march 2003-may 2004 office coordinator create and edit ad and sales copy facilitate, manage, and write for publications and special products coordinate b2b efforts between the newspaper and other community business entities. point of contact with public/customer relations coordinate annual career fair with department of workforce services write news briefs for the paper ksuu, power 91, cedar city, ut, jan. 2000-may 2002 underwriting director find and work with clients to underwrite the radio station supervise others as they find clients provide b2b support and develop relationships with other businesses in the community. write and produce radio underwriting spots maintain financial records of clients and perform collection duties when necessary coordinate annual softball slam ms fundraiser promote radio station and create marketing materials perform radio dj duties skills ms office suite, powerpoint, basic html, illustrator, photoshop, ap style, apa, mla, internet, reporting, research, interview, phone, type 90 wpm education syracuse university, syracuse, ny s.i. newhouse school of public communications m.a. magazine, newspaper and online journalism, july 2005 southern utah university, cedar city, ut b.s. communications, may 2002 minor: political science primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com