statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr follow statista 40k 57k 41k 9.6k industries › retail & trade statistics and facts on retail & trade the retail trade industry is responsible for the display and sale of new or used goods to consumers for personal or household consumption. the retail trade division includes motor vehicle retail, fuel retailing, food retailing, and other forms of store-based retail. in the past the sector has seen a rapid reduction in the number of department stores and the rise of supermarkets and shopping centers. more recently, there has been a rise of convenience shopping, online trading, and the growth of franchising. as it has grown the retail trade industry has had to remain flexible to cope with economic challenges, technological advances, consumer trends, new retail formats, globalization and increasing competition. the industry is characterized by a high degree of casual, part time and seasonal employment. it is estimated that more than half of the adult population is either currently working, or has worked at some time in their life, in the retail industry. the world retailing industry is becoming increasingly competitive, forcing companies to take an innovative approach to attract consumers and encourage long-term loyalty. department stores, for example, are increasing consumer footfalls by replacing more expensive brand-name products with less expensive private-label products. there are many market segments that are fuelling the growth of this industry. for example, the world multi-line retail industry, specialty retail market (products encompassed in the specialty retail industry include computer and electronics, automotive retail, home furnishing retail, apparel retail and specialty stores.), the convenience store industry and the global e-commerce industry are all expected to grow significantly in the next few years especially in emerging markets such as latin america, the middle east and asia. the global e-commerce industry is boosted by wider internet penetration, with about 2.5 billion people using the internet in 2012. business to consumer e-commerce growth in the u.s. is forecast to slow over the years to come while growth in other regions will gain momentum, particularly in central and eastern europe, where sales are estimated to reach approximately 69 billion u.s. dollars. key players operating in the global retail market include house of fraser, galeries lafayette, arnotts, fenwick, bloomingdale’s, john lewis, galeria kaufhof, arcandor, debenhams, saks fifth avenue, macy's, stockmann, marks & spencer, beales, sears, dww woolworth germany, el corte inglés, dillard's, roebuck & company, the bay, nordstrom and maxeda. picture: istockphoto.com / brokenartsshow more industry overview retail & trade diy retail electronic retailers fashion & accessories food & beverage furniture retail health & hygiene international trade key figures of retail office supplies shopping behavior shopping center & factory outlets sports & leisure wholesale popular statistics monthly yoy growth of export value of textiles like face masks south korea 2019-2020 monthly export value of textiles like face masks south korea 2019-2020 export value textiles like masks south korea coronavirus outbreak 2020 by destination monthly export value of textiles like masks to mainland china from south korea 2020 consumer confidence in china 2014-2019 brazil: soybean export value 2006-2019 brazil: soybean export volume 2006-2019 brazil: soybean export value share 2019, by country of destination popular studies coffee market in the u.s. beer industry in the united states automobile sales in china coca-cola company non-alcoholic beverages and soft drinks in the united states bottled water in the u.s. luxury personal goods industry worldwide retail: gasoline stations in the u.s. 2018 statista industry report - naics code 447 all relevant data on a given industry created by our industry experts available for download in pdf format go to report more interesting topics from the industry "retail & trade" apparel industry in vietnam baby care market in europe coronavirus (covid-19): impact on the retail landscape in the u.s. cosmetics and body care in russia cosmetics market in vietnam coupons and loyalty schemes united kingdom (uk) customer satisfaction in australia department stores in canada department stores in the u.s. direct selling market drone delivery for consumer goods e-commerce in belgium e-commerce in the netherlands fair trade in germany fmcg retail in vietnam gopro grocery shopping in china lululemon athletica marriage and weddings in the uk online pet care market petsmart private label market in canada reckitt benckiser retail technology in the uk retail trade in europe revlon inc second-hand goods in canada skin care market in south korea south korean fmcg market sporting goods in canada tjx companies toy industry in canada uk christmas shopping weddings in australia williams-sonoma show all 35 topics more interesting topics from the industry "retail & trade" electronic retailers best buy fashion & accessories adidas apparel and footwear markets in russia apparel and footwear resale in the u.s. apparel market in canada apparel market in italy apparel market in russia apparel market in the u.s. apparel market in the uk apparel market worldwide burberry christmas season in europe clothing and apparel market in europe denim market worldwide eyewear industry in europe eyewear industry in the u.s. fashion and accessories in poland fashion e-commerce in the united states fashion industry in japan fast fashion in europe foot locker footwear in canada footwear in russia footwear industry in europe footwear industry in the united kingdom (uk) global footwear market global personal luxury goods industry gucci h&m group hugo boss jewelry market in india jewelry market in italy jewelry market in the united states jewelry market worldwide limited brands luggage market worldwide luxury goods in europe luxury goods market in china luxury watch industry michael kors moët hennessy louis vuitton (lvmh group) multichannel retail in the uk nike nordstrom online clothing market in the uk online fashion in belgium online fashion in the netherlands prada primark ralph lauren sporting goods in germany sporting goods in the uk sunglasses in the u.s. textile and clothing retail in germany textiles and clothing industry in turkey the kering group u.s. christmas season u.s. footwear market under armour vf corporation victoria's secret women's plus size apparel market in the u.s. food & beverage alcohol market in europe alcohol market in india alcoholic beverage retailers in the nordic countries alcoholic beverages in brazil alcoholic beverages in latin america alcoholic beverages in mexico alcoholic beverages in south korea alcoholic beverages market in japan asahi beef market in canada beer industry in japan beer industry in mexico beer market in canada beer market in germany beverage industry in india beyond meat inc bread and bakery products in canada breakfast foods cafe industry and coffee drinkers in south korea cafés and coffee shops in the united kingdom (uk) cheese market in canada children's food and beverages chocolate in canada chocolate products in germany cocoa and chocolate market in mexico coffee market in canada coffee market in germany coffee market in india coffee market worldwide convenience stores in the u.s. craft beer industry in the u.s. dairy in canada dairy industry dairy industry in china dairy products in germany deli foods industry diets and weight loss in the u.s. discounters in europe dollar stores in canada edible insects egg industry energy drinks fairly traded products market in the united states fmcg retail industry in the philippines food delivery services in europe food industry in brazil food processing in canada food retail in canada food retail in india food retail in japan food retail in south korea food retail industry food shopping behavior in canada food waste free-from foods in europe frozen food market in canada fruit industry in europe global meat industry grocery retailers in finland hard soda in the u.s. health and functional foods market in japan health and wellness food trends in europe hog and pig farming honey market worldwide kellogg company kirin holdings kroger company lindt & sprüngli loblaws maple syrup industry meat industry in canada meat industry in china meat snacks meat substitutes market in the u.s. mezcal milk market in canada non-alcoholic beverages in canada non-alcoholic beverages market in japan online grocery shopping in south korea online grocery shopping in the united kingdom (uk) organic food market in canada organic food market in europe peanut butter industry pistachio market pork market in canada potato industry poultry industry in canada protein market sapporo breweries smokeless tobacco in the united states snack foods in canada snack foods in japan soft drinks in canada spice market in india spirits market in canada stevia industry sugar tax and soft drinks in the united kingdom (uk) suntory supermarkets and grocery stores in canada supermarkets in mexico supermarkets in the netherlands supermarkets in the u.s. supermarkets in the united kingdom (uk) tesco plc thanksgiving the co-operative group u.s. pizza retail market vegan market vegetable industry in europe vegetarianism and veganism in canada whole foods market wine industry in australia wine industry in brazil wine industry in china wine market in canada yogurt market in canada furniture retail furniture and living in the united states furniture e-commerce in the united states furniture industry in europe furniture market in canada furniture market worldwide ikea mattress retail in the u.s. office furniture in the u.s. outdoor furniture market in the united states rta furniture in the u.s. u.s. furniture retail wayfair health & hygiene beauty industry in india beauty industry in japan beiersdorf church & dwight colgate-palmolive cosmetics and personal care in south korea cosmetics in canada cosmetics industry in brazil cosmetics market in poland cosmetics market in the united kingdom (uk) cvs health drug store/pharmacy market in the u.s. eyewear industry in europe feminine hygiene market fragrance market in europe fragrance market in the u.s. hair care product and shampoo market in the u.s. kimberly-clark natural and organic cosmetics in the u.s. natural and organic cosmetics in the united kingdom (uk) optometry and optical industry in europe prestige/luxury cosmetics rite aid salt industry worldwide shiseido company, limited sun care industry the clorox company u.s. bath and shower products market u.s. cosmetic brands u.s. face masks market u.s. skin care market international trade brexit and the food and beverage industry container port industry in singapore energy imports in the uk export trade in china exports from india imports to china inter-korean relations and issues johnson & johnson nut industry worldwide palm oil industry latin america sino-u.s. trading relationship spice market in india trade across the irish border trade in russia trade in singapore trade in the u.s. transatlantic trade and investment partnership u.s. exports to china unilever key figures of retail back-to-college back-to-school black friday in the uk coconut water department stores in the united kingdom (uk) dollar stores in the u.s. duty free and travel retail industry food industry in brazil gas stations in the united states global palm oil industry grocery retailers in finland high street retail in the united kingdom (uk) j.c. penney kantar media tgi consumer data lunar new year in china marks and spencer recreational marijuana retail industry in china retail market worldwide sunday trading ban in poland supermarkets in the u.s. tesco plc the co-operative group u.s. retail brands walmart office supplies back-to-college back-to-school market in canada staples shopping behavior alcohol consumption in canada apparel and footwear consumer behavior in the u.s. back-to-school beauty boxes in the u.s. black friday in the uk car purchasing experience in europe christmas season in europe coffee market in canada cosmetics consumer behavior in the u.s. coupon market trends in the united states electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) food retail in canada food shopping behavior food shopping behavior in canada halloween in the u.s. halloween spending in the united kingdom (uk) hispanics in the u.s.: shopping behavior holiday season in canada loblaws natural and organic cosmetics in europe natural and organic cosmetics in the united kingdom (uk) online grocery shopping in the united kingdom (uk) online shopping in europe online shopping in russia organic food consumption in finland payment methods in europe second-hand retail in the united kingdom (uk) spirits market in canada sunday trading ban in poland thanksgiving u.s. baby boomers: grocery shopping behavior u.s. consumers: online grocery shopping u.s. generation x (gen x): grocery shopping behavior u.s. millennials: consumer goods and shopping behavior u.s. millennials: grocery shopping behavior u.s. online grocery shopping consumer behavior u.s. thanksgiving weekend shopping wine market in canada shopping center & factory outlets department stores in the united kingdom (uk) european shopping centers high street retail in the united kingdom (uk) hudson's bay company target sports & leisure fitness equipment in the u.s. sporting goods in germany sporting goods industry in the u.s. wholesale costco flower industry in the netherlands show more statista search any more questions? get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! do you still have questions? feel free to contact us anytime using our contact form or visit our faq page. contact esther shaulova operations manager support@statista.com +1 (212) 419-5770 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm, est contact (europe) lodovica biagi director of operations eu.support@statista.com +44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm, gmt contact (asia) ziyan zhang customer relations asia.support@statista.com +91 80 49016428 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm, ist we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr