≡ menu home about new readers start here archives passive income real estate crowdfunding rental property dividend stocks tax advantaged accounts blog income recommendations wealth building investing blog hosting travel credit cards how to engineer your layoff contact disclosure recipes stimulus for the rest of us march 25, 2020 { 38 comments } yes! we have some good news from our lawmakers. a big stimulus is coming. families are hurting as many businesses shut down or scale back to prevent the spread of covid-19. this is a huge problem and the government is working hard to prevent the us economy from crashing into a depression. this stimulus package […] read more about the author: joe started retire by 40 in 2010 to figure out how to retire early. he spent 16 years working in computer design and enjoyed the technical work immensely. however, the job became too stressful and joe retired from his engineering career to become a stay-at-home dad/blogger at 38. today, he blogs about financial independence, early retirement, investing, and living a frugal lifestyle. passive income is the key to early retirement. this year, joe is increasing his investment in real estate with crowdstreet. he can invest in projects across the u.s. and diversify his real estate portfolio. there are many interesting projects available so sign up and check them out. joe also highly recommends personal capital for diy investors. he logs on to personal capital almost daily to check his cash flow and net worth. they have many useful tools that will help diy investors analyze their portfolio and plan for retirement. why call it – the chinese virus? by retirebyforty on march 22, 2020 { 61 comments } i’m way off subject today, but we’re all living through a bizarre time. besides, nobody wants to read about early retirement right now. everyone is busier with more important things like trying to stay sane with their kids in a lockdown. normally, i try to avoid controversial topics because you can’t win. some readers will […] read more 10 projects to do with your kids during spring break by retirebyforty on march 18, 2020 { 22 comments } it’s day 5 of the spring break from hell. send help!!! (just kidding…) last week, our school district shut down early and extended spring break to 2.5 weeks. that’s okay with me. some extra days off wouldn’t hurt. our son is very happy about it and i already have a few projects lined up for […] read more how to survive a stock market crash by retirebyforty on march 15, 2020 { 33 comments } it has been a scary few weeks for investors. the us stock market crashed as the covid-19 outbreak spread around the world. we finally figured out the us isn’t going to escape unscathed this time. now, schools are shuttered, businesses are closed, sports season canceled, and many people are hiding out at home. the us […] read more sahd recipe – spaghetti pad kee mao by retirebyforty on march 14, 2020 { 2 comments } hey everyone! welcome to another installment of sahd recipes. today, we’ll make spaghetti pad kee mao aka drunken noodles. this is a thai & italian fusion dish. usually, pad kee mao is made with wide rice noodles similar to the pad see ew noodles. but creative chefs in thailand tried various different ways to make […] read more what if everyone retires early by retirebyforty on march 11, 2020 { 38 comments } in 2012, i retired from my engineering career. it was the best decision i ever made. the technical career wasn’t the right fit for me anymore. i was miserable and my physical and mental health suffered. after i quit, life improved tremendously. fortunately, the stock market had a great run and we’re still doing well […] read more how are your alternative investments holding up? by retirebyforty on march 8, 2020 { 35 comments } hey investors, how are your investments holding up? the stock market has been crazy over the last few weeks due to the covid-19. investors pushed the stock market to a new high in february because we were too complacent. we were investing for the best case scenario and didn’t take the covid-19 outbreak in china […] read more can you afford the coronavirus? by retirebyforty on march 4, 2020 { 36 comments } i’m writing about the coronavirus (covid-19) again, sorry! i’m a bit obsessed about it and i don’t have a good personal finance topic in the queue. anyway, we had a lot of bad news over the last 10 days. the coronavirus outbreak is spreading across the us. at the time of writing, there are 158 […] read more previous posts joe udo retired from his engineering career to become a stay at home dad/blogger at 38. read the whole story on the about page follow retire by 40: how to save, invest, and retire earlier see our real estate crowdfunding investment track your money for free with personal capital how to start a blog how to start investing in dividend stocks see how we make passive income latest articles stimulus for the rest of us why call it – the chinese virus? 10 projects to do with your kids during spring break how to survive a stock market crash sahd recipe – spaghetti pad kee mao what if everyone retires early best of retire by 40 early retirement articles. frugal living articles. happiness articles. making money articles. stay at home dad articles. self employment articles. sign up for our newsletter copyright © 2010 to 2040 – retire by 40 disclosure: all content on this site is for informational purposes only and does not constitute professional financial advice. you should talk to a professional financial planner if you need more help with your finance. we may receive a referral fee if you sign up through the links on retire by 40. wp admin