news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals reviews review: crave powerpack 2 – this portable battery charger is an absolute unit looking for a powerbank that can charge your new macbook? look no further. by kevin raposo march 19, 2020 image: kevin raposo / knowtechie the good 50,000mah is a lot of battery capacity charges your devices extremely fast the ability to charger bigger devices like a laptop is a nice touch it’s like having an ac outlet wherever you go the bad takes a considerable amount of time to fully recharge the battery (which is understandable) it’s heavy the metal finish is susceptible to scratching 8.9 overall i’m a sucker for portable battery chargers. seriously, they rule. i can’t tell you how many times i’ve had my phone run out of juice only to have a portable power delivery system bring it back to life. not to mention all the times i’m just sitting on the couch and too lazy to plug my phone into a wall outlet to charge. however, when it comes to finding the best one for your needs, that may prove to be difficult because there’s so many of them out there. portable battery chargers come in all shapes and sizes and at many different price points. there’s small ones, big ones, and ones right in between. today, we’re looking at one of the bigger options available on the market: the $200 crave powerpack 2. but first, some specs: output: type-c (pd): 1:5v-3a, 9v-2a, 12v-1.5a, 15v-1.2a 18w (mobile phones, and more) type-c (pd): 2: 5v-3a, 9v-3a, 12v-3a, 15v-3a, 20v-3a 60w (laptop charging) usb 1/2: 5v-3a, 9v-2a, 12v-1.5a 18w (phones, cameras, & misc) total output limit: max 81w features camping, emergency power source, road trips, etc. quick charge yup smart charge ic yup pd (power delivery) 60w + 18w charging ports usb-c (in/out) with pd x2, usb-a x2 size 8.2 x 5.4 x 1.3 in weight 3lb 3 oz / 1450g compatible with laptops, phones, tablets, portable speakers, usb powered devices image: kevin raposo / knowtechie the first thing i want to bring to your attention is how much battery capacity this sucker has. most portable battery chargers sit around the 10,000mah to 20,000mah mark. the crave powerpack 2 has a battery capacity of 50,000mah. that’s a massive battery. to put things in perspective, this battery pack is capable of charging a new macbook pro to 100% at least three times on a single charge. additionally, it can charge your smartphone or similar devices from 0-100% battery power up to 15 times. so yea, that’s a lot. speaking of laptops, the crave powerpack 2 is totally capable of charging them without any issues. not many portable battery packs are capable of this. however, to fully utilize this, your laptop requires a usb-c port for charging. so if you’re rocking an older notebook, this might not work for you. but if it does, the good thing about this is that you’re able to charge your phone and laptop all at the same time. one thing that’s worth mentioning about the crave powerpack 2 is that it’s big image: kevin raposo / knowtechie like, it’s massive. and that’s understandable seeing that it packs 50,000mah of power. and when it comes to the weight of the device, it’s slightly on the heavy side, but again, see above. the company’s website states the device weighs about four pounds. so yea, this is definitely not something you can slide in your pocket. overall, crave’s powerpack 2 is a solid product. it’s a little pricey at $200, but seeing how much battery life you get out of the thing, it makes sense. not to mention, you’ll get a ton of value from this device over time. whether it’s camping, traveling, or long road trips – this device will certainly come in clutch when you need it. the crave powerpack 2 is available for at $199.99 via the company’s website or via amazon. editors’ recommendations: review: anker’s latest portable battery is a perfect, polished powerhouse review: blitzwolf bw-pf2 10000mah portable battery pack review: ravpower 16750mah external battery pack – surely a life a saver review: pitaka magez juice – a $90 power bank and wireless charging stand combined into one just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. a sample unit was provided to knowtechie for the purpose of this review. the good 50,000mah is a lot of battery capacity charges your devices extremely fast the ability to charger bigger devices like a laptop is a nice touch it’s like having an ac outlet wherever you go the bad takes a considerable amount of time to fully recharge the battery (which is understandable) it’s heavy the metal finish is susceptible to scratching 8.9 overall related topicsgadgetsportable batterypowerbankreviewssmartphones kevin raposo founder & editor. email me at kevin@knowtechie.com comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in reviews review: senstroke – play drums on any surface, anywhere, anytime unfortunately, it wasn't for me. review: dser robogeek 21t robot vacuum – spending the apocalypse with a clean floor we are all ephemera. review: wyze lock – an affordable smart lock with minimal features a straightforward smart lock for your dumb door. review: hyperx cloud flight s gaming headset – a wireless option that gets the job done a great option for wireless fans, but why doesn't it come with a wireless... review: pitaka magez juice – a $90 power bank and wireless charging stand combined into one it's expensive, but if you work at a desk all day, this will definitely... review: roborock s5 max – let the machines do the work for you a robovac that doubles as a mop? *chefs kiss* review: bang & olufsen beoplay h9 (3rd gen) wireless bluetooth headphones because who says you can't buy class? review: ryzen 3400g apu – is it a viable console alternative? how does the ryzen apu stack up to the xbox one x? review: hyperx cloud flight s gaming headset – a wireless option that gets the job done review: wyze lock – an affordable smart lock with minimal features home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie