home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog popsugar november must have box november 22, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment one of my favorite days of the month is here! my popsugar november must have box was at my doorstep for me to try and needless to say, another awesome popsugar november must have box is in the books! this subscription box never disappoints. my absolute favorite part of this month's box was the adorable bracelet by kenda scott. i literally have worn it every day since i got … [read more...] get outta my life, aunt flow bloat! october 3, 2016 by erin weiss leave a comment this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of flat tummy tea. all opinions are 100% mine. have i mentioned how much i'm digging fall while living in the south? as i religiously check my weather app on my phone to compare charleston to my hometown of chicago, i see that it's dropping much faster in chicago than it is here. ladies and gents, that's okay with me! i moved … [read more...] north face mountain athletics & north face $500 giveaway! april 27, 2015 by erin weiss 6 comments this is a sponsored post written by me on behalf of the north face . all opinions are 100% mine. i don't know anyone who doesn't love north face gear. coming from chicago, you walk down the street in the winter and will undoubtedly see multiple people around you wearing a north face jacket. i promise you...try out my experiment. you'll be shocked. north face is … [read more...] top 5 winter workouts & my new columbia gear october 28, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment as halloween is now approaching, it's time to get ready for some cold weather. sorry to say it, but it's true. it's almost time to break out the old winter jackets and boots to stay warm or snag a new pair of boots and jacket like i did. this winter will be a bit different for me as it's my first winter living in the south! i'm expecting it to get cold but not nearly as … [read more...] puffs softpack – the newest addition to my gym bag october 16, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment today i want to talk about a new product that i'm kinda in love with, puffs softpack. as the temperature changes and everyone is starting to get sick, tissues are a must-have in everyone's life. i was just introduced to puffs softpack which is basically a brilliant idea. you know how we all keep a little soft tissue pack in our purse for makeup/gym/sweat/sickness? there's … [read more...] jabra rox headphones and giveaway! august 19, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment if you're anything like me, you get extremely aggravated when trying to workout and your headphone cords keep getting in the way of your workout. you know....like the time when you're all set to do a bench press and then realize your cord is on the wrong side of the bar so it will either pull the earphones right out of your ears, or you have to re-rack the bar and readjust your … [read more...] pop sugar june must have box june 9, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment this was my first must have box i've gotten and let me tell you, i am 100% obsessed. seriously. i love it! have you heard of pop sugar's must have box? it's a monthly subscription service that sends you a box full of the latest products to try. it's full of the latest and greatest beauty, food, books, clothing and accessories. typically the must have boxes pack a huge … [read more...] vionic shoes walkabout march challenge february 26, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment did you know that you can greatly improve your health by just walking 30 minutes a day? walking may be underestimated but it's simple and just about everyone can do it! take your dog for a walk, enjoy the outdoors and walk for a simple 30 minutes. just 30 minutes a day will improve your overall heart health. the folks at vionic shoes created a campaign to encourage you to … [read more...] blenderbottle prostak review october 25, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment the fabulous folks at blenderbottle sent me a new blenderbottle prostak to try. they asked me if i needed a new blender bottle and i told them that my biggest issue with my protein shakers is that i struggle with how to store my protein and bcaa powder before adding them to the shaker bottle to drink before and after my workout. i used to put a scoop of protein in one … [read more...] puma punisher workout september 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fabulous labor day weekend! it was nice to have a long weekend where we weren't traveling the whole time. it was a nice change. on saturday morning, i got to try out my new puma shoes that they sent me to try. they are called puma formlite which are reasonably priced at about $60! the coolest part of these shoes is their weight. they are by far the … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in