news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals gadgets review: wyze lock – an affordable smart lock with minimal features a straightforward smart lock for your dumb door. by josiah motley march 23, 2020 image: josiah motley / knowtechie the good easy to install easy to set up geofencing works well the bad the materials used feel a bit on the cheaper side if you want a keypad, you have to purchase that separately 8.5 overall as we continue on the journey of making my home smarter, today we are looking at the wyze lock. unlike the smart bulbs and robovacs we’ve recently reviewed, the wyze lock is something a bit more practical, but also, a bit more important in the grand scheme of things. coming in at just under $100, the wyze lock is a solid option for those looking to dip their toes in the world of smart locks. while there are competitors on the market that have additional features, they also have larger price tags, so it’s something worth thinking about when making the decision for yourself. let’s dive in. the wyze lock is simple to install and set up when the wyze lock first arrived, i was worried the install process was going to be a pain. as we’ve talked about, i’m not very technically – or mechanically – savvy. luckily, those fears were quickly squashed as the lock’s app easily walked me through the step-by-step guide. in the box also comes all the connectors and adapters you will need, depending on the age and type of existing lock on your door. you’ll need to have an outlet within 50 feet of the door for the included wyze gateway to communicate with the lock. don’t worry about power outages, however, as the lock can also connect via bluetooth. this system is only for the inside of the door, so your existing key will work, as well. how it works image: josiah motley / knowtechie compared to some of the other smart locks on the market, the wyze lock is very straightforward. you can lock and unlock the door manually through the app or set up geofencing to unlock the door automatically when within range. from my testing, this worked surprisingly well, with very little issues. you can also set up rules to automatically lock the door after a set period of time. the wyze lock will also alert you if you’ve left your door open for an extended period of time. i didn’t even realize this was part of it until i came in with groceries one evening and forgot to close the front door again. an app alert and literal beep from the unit made me aware of it within about a minute. if you have family or roommates, you can also give them permissions by sending them an email link to download the app. then, from the app, you can remove that access if needed, as well. final thoughts overall, i’m impressed with the wyze lock. like many wyze products, it is a stripped-down, affordable version of a smart product that many people want, but may not be ready to drop serious cash on. it does what it does well, and if you are a wyze household, you can set rules to work with other things like the wyze bulb or wyze smart plugs. the company does note that google assistant and alexa support is coming later in the year, which will definitely be welcome, as well. editors’ recommendations: review: crave powerpack 2 – this portable battery charger is an absolute unit review: yeedi k600 automatic vacuum robot – a great starter device review: kospet prime smartwatch – a smartwatch for any aspiring spy review: motiv smart ring – if you like it, put a ring on it just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. a sample unit was provided for the purpose of this review. the good easy to install easy to set up geofencing works well the bad the materials used feel a bit on the cheaper side if you want a keypad, you have to purchase that separately 8.5 overall related topicsgadgetsreviewssmart homewyzewyze lock josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in gadgets review: senstroke – play drums on any surface, anywhere, anytime unfortunately, it wasn't for me. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 if you're looking to make the jump into the world vr headsets, this is... the best tech to help you have a productive morning these are five amazing things that anyone can purchase for a reasonable price and... how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations alexa gets even more useful. wyze introduces two new smart gadgets to its lineup – a $25 wearable and $20 smart scale wyze is back at it, with more affordable smart products for you and your... the best tech to hoard during a pandemic just add hot pockets and tuna. the best sleep tech money can buy right now technology does more than keep you awake. the best crowdfunding campaigns to check out in march 2020 candles, watches, toys, and more. review: crave powerpack 2 – this portable battery charger is an absolute unit review: dser robogeek 21t robot vacuum – spending the apocalypse with a clean floor home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie