the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop great job internet revisit the 2005 virus that infected world of warcraft you may also like the takeout british archaeologists dig up a stash of rare victorian-era lead ale aimee levitttoday 11:21am news scott aukerman and pamela adlon solve the mystery of whether patrick swayze was in grease 2 randall colburntoday 11:19am news chris evans goes from defending the world to defending jacob, whoever that is randall colburnwednesday 1:09pm more from g/o media read on this is all going to last longer than we think read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on coronavirus is exposing how backward car buying is read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe dan neilan 54 minutes ago • filed to:great job internet great job internetworld of warcraftpandemic 1 photo: sascha schuermann (getty images) the current global pandemic is inspiring a lot of people to look back through history to see how humans responded to the spread of similarly deadly viruses in an effort to, hopefully, learn from our mistakes and save some lives. with that in mind, let us venture back to the distant past of 2005 when a dangerous bloodborne illness nearly decimated the digital population of blizzard’s world of warcraft. as the host of the highly informative youtube channel half as interesting explains, the “disease” that infected world of warcraft began with the introduction of a new boss, hakkar the soulflayer. given this particular soulflayer’s predilection for draining players’ blood in order to refuel his own health bar, the trick to defeating him involved infecting yourself with “corrupted blood” so that hakkar found himself weakened as opposed to healed when he drained you of your fluids. advertisement it was a fun mechanic that should have stayed isolated in the raid arena of zul’gurub, but, unfortunately, a coding error resulted in players’ pets retaining the corrupted blood when they re-spawned in the main world. this quickly spread to other pets, other players, and soon threatened to kill everyone’s digital avatars. what resulted from this viral glitch was an epidemiologist’s dream: a live model of viral spread in which avatars were controlled by real humans making real choices about how to stay safe, how to help those in need, or, as the case may be, how to ignore warning signs and continue to infect other players. it’s a fascinating look at the diversity of responses to a deadly contagion with, of course, much lower stakes than our current pandemic. in the end, over 4 million players were infected and blizzard was forced to do a hard reset on the world of warcraft servers. we’re no scientists, but we don’t think that solution will work in the real world. send great job, internet tips to gji@theonion.com advertisement dan neilan posts twitter contributor, the a.v. club. pay me to write for you, you coward. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine jeremy renner offers sick world a treatment it hasn't asked for with new ep, the medicine meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit all is resolved in an underwhelming star trek: picard finale share tweet