news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right well, time to make my pc vr-ready, it seems. by josiah motley march 23, 2020 image: pc gamer when half-life: alyx was announced in november, many gamers were left on the fence. yes, it was going to be a new entry in a much-beloved series, one that hasn’t had a new game added to the library in 13 years, but it would also be in vr, something that can be extremely hit-or-miss. luckily, now that reviews are starting to drop for the game, it seems that valve nailed it on the head, combining a great game with a great vr experience. we’ve read all the reviews throughout the day (while being extremely jealous), so let’s take a minute to see what they are saying and what they like about the new game from valve. does virtual reality in half-life: alyx work well? image: valve for many, this is probably the biggest question in regards to the new title. vr can be great, but also gimmicky. thankfully, it seems alyx knocked it out of the park with the use of vr. ars technica even went as far as to call it “the greatest vr adventure game yet—and then some.” they go on to say that gamers are “in for a video game that pushes the notion of ‘full-length vr adventure’ to its limits.” this means that from teaching you the basics of vr mechanics and learning about teleporting (something many vr games have as a way of movement) to figuring out how it all comes together, alyx gets it all right. and that’s impressive considering how much exploring, shooting, and puzzle-solving you’ll be doing in this 15-hour adventure. it should be noted in this section that alyx is available through steam and any vr headset that works with the system. this includes valve’s own vr headset, as well as the oculus quest and htc vive. the story of half-life: alyx again, valve has done the series justice with this title, providing an interesting compelling story that is setting up a future of even more half-life goodness. pc gamer echoes these sentiments, stating, “while it’s sandwiched between the events of half-life 1 and half-life 2 the repercussions of its story extend well into whatever future there is for the half-life series.” kotaku backs that up, noting that the game is “a full-blown half-life adventure that, at least in terms of length and scope, rivals anything the series has produced.” how does the action compare to past titles? all of that is great, it really is, but if the action and puzzle-solving aspects aren’t actually fun, then what does it even matter? put those concerns aside, as it seems half-life: alyx nailed this, as well. the verge notes that “big battles become tense shootouts as you reload and scrounge for more ammunition while crouching behind cover.” they go on to say that yes, by the way, you do have to crouch in real life during these sections, unless you change an accessibility setting. reviewers have also continuously commented on the act of actually having to reload your guns, make intense segments that much more intense. it’s not perfect, however. kotaku noted that the “enemies are certainly more stationary than standard fps baddies, but they still follow you, flank you, throw grenades to flush you out of cover, and send manhacks to hunt you down.” they go on to say that, while fun, it can quickly become a bit gimmicky as fights become more about teleporting yourself, shooting a bit, then teleporting again. is half-life: alyx a must-buy? overall, it seems that most reviewers were extremely happy with half-life: alyx. from the story and vr controls to the action, the game nails the vr and half-life experience extremely well. if you have the vr setup required to play the game, then this is definitely worth checking out. what do you think? are you interested in trying out half-life: alyx? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine call of duty: warzone boasts 30 million players in 10 days the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined you can now snag the original halo: combat evolved on steam related topicsalyxgametechiehalf-lifereview roundupsvalvevr josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check now, if it could only help with all of my other terrible habits. with more gamers online, sony and microsoft are looking at ways to deal with increased demands i'm still going to blame lag when i lose in rocket league. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 if you're looking to make the jump into the world vr headsets, this is... the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times if you are looking for some mobile games to help you relax, start here. most played online video games in 2020 these are the games players can't get enough of in 2020. what effect has the coronavirus had on the gaming industry? a whole lot apparently. the mini game – an expression of appreciation mini-games can increase our enjoyment of video games considerably. in effect, they’re additional games... the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine not sure what to play through microsoft's xcloud game streaming service? start here. the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine the mini game – an expression of appreciation home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie