business california climate & environment entertainment & arts food hot property housing & homelessness lifestyle obituaries opinion politics science sports travel world & nation _________________ about us archives for the record got a tip? l.a. times careers l.a. times events l.a. times store newsroom directory reprints, rights & permissions archives for the record got a tip? l.a. times careers l.a. times events l.a. times store newsroom directory reprints, rights & permissions advertising place an ad classifieds find/post jobs local ads marketplace hot property sections place an open house sotheby’s international realty why l.a. times? place an ad classifieds find/post jobs local ads marketplace hot property sections place an open house sotheby’s international realty why l.a. times? brand publishing crossword & games l.a. times news platforms audio briefs for smart speakers l.a. times en español enewspaper news app: apple ios news app: google play newsletters podcasts youtube audio briefs for smart speakers l.a. times en español enewspaper news app: apple ios news app: google play newsletters podcasts youtube l.a. times store subscriptions manage subscription ezpay delivery issue enewspaper subscribe subscriber terms manage subscription ezpay delivery issue enewspaper subscribe subscriber terms copyright © 2020, los angeles times | terms of service | privacy policy | ca notice of collection | do not sell my info sections california entertainment sports food climate opinion | place an ad crossword enewspaper show search search query submit search advertisement facebook twitter show more sharing options share close extra sharing options facebook twitter linkedin email copy link urlcopied! print books review: in ‘new waves,’ the only real connections are virtual kevin nguyen, author of “new waves.” (matt martin) by david l. ulin march 11, 2020 7 am facebook twitter show more sharing options share close extra sharing options facebook twitter linkedin email copy link urlcopied! print what does authenticity mean in a digital age? the question sits at the center of kevin nguyen’s first novel, “new waves,” which begins as a workplace caper before spinning out like the fractals in a mandelbrot set. narrated by a young tech worker named lucas, the book unfolds primarily in 2009 in manhattan, although time and place remain, if not fluid, then difficult to grasp. lucas and his friend margo, an ace programmer, download a database of user information from their employer, a messaging service called nimbus, in retribution for margo having lost her job. “[i]t’s not stealing,” she argues, insisting that copying does not amount to larceny. that this is a semantic argument is precisely the idea. for nguyen, the appropriation of the data sets in motion a variety of plot lines in which nothing is as it appears. take margo: although she initiates the action, she is not long for the novel’s world. “there was no way to know then,” lucas confides at the close of the first chapter, “that, in a matter of months, margo would be dead.” “new waves,” then, is a novel of indirection, one that attempts to track, through lucas’ efforts to make sense of both himself and margo’s death, the floating quality of our contemporary condition — in which we are actual and virtual entities at once. advertisement listening to margo’s voice on a series of wav files, lucas explains, is “less like hearing a ghost and more like witnessing a message from an astral plane, a different dimension, the future. … [s]he’d occasionally screw up on the recording — she’d misspeak and the tone of her voice would break, maybe she’d laugh a little to herself before starting over — and in those moments, i couldn’t help but think that she was alive.” every one of us knows someone who has died but left a digital trace: mp4s, archived messages, social media profiles. “i’ve noticed,” zadie smith has written, “… that when a teenager is murdered, at least in britain, her facebook wall will often fill with messages that seem not quite to comprehend the gravity of what has occurred. … what’s the difference, after all, if all your contact was virtual?” smith is writing from the perspective of what she calls a “person 1.0” — raised in an analog world. nguyen is person 2.0. features editor at the verge and a former editor at gq, he has said he began to work on what would become “new waves” using the notes app on his phone. he is, as they say, a digital native. (one world) advertisement as a consequence, “new waves” manages to be both knowing and cutting, a satire of internet culture that is also a moving portrait of a lost human being. lucas is a loner who spends his weekends sneaking from one film to another in the neighborhood multiplex. his apartment looks like a dorm room — dirty clothes on the floor and empty beer cans by the bed. his jobs, first at nimbus and then with another start-up called phantom (think snapchat for sms, a text-based platform from which messages disappear), involve fielding queries for tech support. margo was his one source of human contact — until he meets jill, a novelist who knew margo from a science fiction listserv. his relationship with jill drives much of the plot, but “new waves” is not a love story. for nguyen, rather, romance is one more source of disconnection, one more landscape in which reality is distorted by desire. to illustrate the point, he develops another narrative around the problems faced by phantom, an app idealistically created so that “[g]overnment or corporate whistleblowers could communicate in secret to journalists” but mostly used by teens and adulterers to sext. that’s a vivid symbol of a tech universe gone astray (best intentions and all) — or it would be, were nguyen interested in allegory. the strength of the novel is that he has something more expansive in his sights. the book functions not unlike the digital culture it is satirizing, with shifts in style and form and voice. (in a move reminiscent of sigrid nunez’s “the friend” or kevin barry’s “beatlebone,” he has jill narrate the penultimate chapter before returning to lucas’ point-of-view.) nguyen deftly introduces certain elements — margo’s death, say — then drops them for pages before returning again. the effect is similar to reopening a browser window, or a forgotten tab. “sometimes,” jill admits, “i’d hit the back button on my browser as many times as i could to retrace my steps. it was like traveling back in time, if time travel made you feel bad about how you’d wasted a perfectly good day.” in other words, actual time is consumed by virtual time travel; the online steals from the real. most essentially, nguyen uses lucas’ voice, his frame of reference, to make subtle arguments about the primacy of digital. inverting the tendency to play coy with tech while grounding us in what we might call legacy culture, he cites platforms such as facebook and craigslist by name. books and movies, on the other hand, are referenced by clues. joan didion’s “the year of magical thinking” is “a famous memoir by a famous california writer, whose famous new york writer husband had died of a heart attack.” spike lee’s “do the right thing” is “that one movie that jill had never seen but always meant to. what was it called? the one about the heat wave? it didn’t matter.” it makes for an engaging treasure hunt but also functions as a painful reminder that in a universe of networks, the most necessary bits of information are keywords, as well as the services through which they are deployed. we don’t need to remember titles — or, for that matter, anything — because the machines can remember it for us. and yet, as nguyen observes, data is not neutral. “[w]e never ask,” he writes, “about the person who wrote the algorithm. … no biases or fallibility should be allowed to infiltrate it, even if the authors themselves are biased and fallible (and they always are).” advertisement “new waves” is also fallible in places; it can push too many hot buttons (a subplot on hr and workplace harassment feels especially tacked on), and nguyen doesn’t know how to wrap it up. but that too is consistent with the ethos of the internet. what is digital life, after all, if not a story with too many elements, an open-ended narrative? “she might not respond at all,” lucas thinks of his correspondence with jill: “we might not speak for a long time, or maybe never again.” that this is accurate in both virtual and actual terms is what nguyen means for us to know. ulin is the former book editor and book critic of the times. new waves kevin nguyen one world: 306 pp, $27 books newsletter love a good book? get the latest news, events and more from the los angeles times book club, and help us get l.a. reading and talking. sign me up you may occasionally receive promotional content from the los angeles times. david l. ulin more from the los angeles times books we asked authors what they read, hear and watch in quarantine. here’s laila lalami’s diary books we asked authors what they read, hear and watch in quarantine. here’s laila lalami’s diary in a coronavirus quarantine diary, ‘the other americans’ author laila reads ‘the bell jar,’ recommends kiese laymon’s ‘heavy’ and watches ‘devs.’ books a co-working whodunit clips corporate feminism’s wing books a co-working whodunit clips corporate feminism’s wing andrea bartz’s novel, “the herd,” is a mystery wrapped around a parody of the wing books four crime novels to help you weather the spring books four crime novels to help you weather the spring narrow escapes and righteous heroines in these works of crime fiction help you survive this strange season books bored and on a budget? here’s how to read for free while social distancing books bored and on a budget? here’s how to read for free while social distancing here’s how to access the new wealth of free e-books and audiobooks during the coronavirus crisis. advertisement latest books books los angeles times book club is back, virtually, with l.a. noir authors books los angeles times book club is back, virtually, with l.a. noir authors join author steph cha and joe ide for a streaming conversation about new l.a. noir. the march 30 event will be live. books how the coronavirus will change book publishing, now and forever books how the coronavirus will change book publishing, now and forever ebook sales are higher due to coronavirus, but bookstores are shutting down. in the end, amazon wins. books we asked authors what they read, hear and watch in quarantine. here’s steph cha’s diary books we asked authors what they read, hear and watch in quarantine. here’s steph cha’s diary in our first coronavirus quarantine diary, “your house will pay” author steph cha reads ivy pochoda and cathy park hong, watches “iron man 2" and “fleabag,” listens to “the power broker” and works a “starry night” puzzle. books review: k. ferrari’s argentine social noir is both existential and electric books review: k. ferrari’s argentine social noir is both existential and electric k. ferrari like flies from afar review books sign up for the los angeles times book club books sign up for the los angeles times book club get the latest news and notes from our community book club. our mission is to get southern california reading and talking. advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement advertisement subscribe for unlimited access follow us twitter instagram youtube facebook enewspaper find/post jobs for the record place an ad why l.a. times? crossword obituaries podcasts recipes bestcovery about/contact l.a. times careers manage subscription reprints and permissions site map copyright © 2020, los angeles times | terms of service | privacy policy | ca notice of collection | do not sell my info