news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals gadgets review: senstroke – play drums on any surface, anywhere, anytime unfortunately, it wasn’t for me. by kevin raposo march 25, 2020 image: kevin raposo / knowtechie the good it's a whole lot better than air drumming pairing the sensors to the app is surprisingly easy works with garage band the bad latency really holds you back the app could use some work it's pretty expensive setup process can be pretty stressful 6 overall when i was originally pitched senstroke, i was pretty stoked to try it out. for those who don’t know me outside of knowtechie, i’m a drummer with over 20+ years of experience. when i’m not playing on a real acoustic kit, i can usually be found in the garage playing my electronic drumset. it’s a whole lot quieter than the real thing and it allows me to practice at all hours of the night. and that’s the same promise senstroke brings to the table. it allows anyone to practice drums anywhere, anytime. with the use of bluetooth technology, senstroke sensors are attached to your drumsticks and feet. any time the sensor senses vibration or impact, a sound is triggered. on paper this all makes sense, but the application is a whole different story. but we’ll get to that in a minute. first, let’s talk about the setup process. setup image: kevin raposo / knowtechie i have plenty of experience with electronic drums and fine-tuning things to get them to sound like i want. so i figured senstoke’s setup would be a breeze. and for the most part, it was, but there were times i found myself getting frustrated to the point that i just wanted to give up on the whole process and jump on some real drums. regardless of how much experience you have drums with or not, setting everything up from hardware to the app is probably going to take you some time. it did for me, at least. mounting the sensors to the sticks is pretty much self-explanatory, as well as the foot sensors. the app essentially walks you through this part. and thankfully, pairing all the sensors with the app is quite effortless. just tap the button on the sensor and the app instantly recognizes them. from here, you can assign what each sensor does. it could be a right-hand stick, left-hand stick, bass drum pedal, or a high-hat pedal. that’s the easy part. the part i had some trouble with was when it came to calibrating the actual sensors. this is one of the calibration methods users are encouraged to do. most people can’t do this / image: kevin raposo calibration involves two steps. the first one is laying the sensor directly on a flat surface. that’s the easy one. the last and final calibration process is the one that had me confused. after countless tries, i never got it. i had to visit the senstroke’s website and watch a video in their help section to figure it out. i imagine most people won’t make the effort to look that up. thankfully, none of these calibration steps are required, but it’s most certainly suggested. it’s safe to say, for a guy who runs a tech blog and reviews countless gadgets, i had some difficulty setting this all up. it actually took me some time to get it all ironed out. so my one suggestion here is to fully use the company’s website for any troubleshooting or setup questions. it will save you a lot of time. performance image: senstroke so, how does it actually perform? personally, it’s not for me. latency is a huge issue when it comes to senstroke’s performance. for those of you that don’t know, latency, in this case, is the time delay between the moment a drum pad is hit and when a sound is produced by the system. typically, latency is measured in milliseconds. i can’t give you an exact number when it comes to senstroke’s latency, but the number is high. there’s a considerable delay. now, what i didn’t know before trying and setting this all up is that the company suggests using connected headphones or a physically connected speaker to your smartphone or tablet. for the first couple of tries, i was using my airpods so the latency was really really high. the sensors themselves are connected via bluetooth and when you double that up with headphones, it causes increased latency. when i plugged headphones into my phone, the latency was cut down significantly, but it was painfully obvious that it was still present. i even tried to adjust the sensitivity of the sensor, but that just caused more problems. personally, for me, i knew i had enough and there was nothing to keep me going forward with it. see, being a drummer, timing is everything. i couldn’t even keep a simple beat going with senstroke. it was so frustrating. and after watching some demo videos of the device, i found that every video i watched, none of the drummers could keep a beat to time either. the only way someone could prove me wrong is if they could use this device and play to a metronome at the same time. i couldn’t do it. the latency was too painful. would i recommend it? image: kevin raposo / knowtechie probably not. senstoke can be a lot of fun, sure, but it’s not for a musician who’s trying to craft their drumming skills. this is great for people who just want to make noise or great for a kid who’s just getting into music. for a seasoned drummer, your best bet is getting some basic practice pads or a dedicated electronic drumset. they’ll do you better. heck, even something simple as a pair of sticks would probably be better. for the beginners out there, these might be worth it, but eventually, you’ll want to graduate to something better like a real drumset. remember, timing is everything, and when your strokes are delayed by latency, you’re not learning anything but bad habits, and when you’re learning to play drums – bad habits are a killer. you want to learn the right way and i’m afraid you won’t get that experience with senstroke. senstroke’s 4-pack of sensors plus a pair of drumsticks retails on the company’s website for $260, while it’s amazon page has it available for $250 without the drumsticks. editors’ recommendations: review: dser robogeek 21t robot vacuum – spending the apocalypse with a clean floor review: wyze lock – an affordable smart lock with minimal features review: crave powerpack 2 – this portable battery charger is an absolute unit review: novostella smart led bulbs – an illuminating review just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. a sample unit was provided to knowtechie for the purpose of this review. the good it's a whole lot better than air drumming pairing the sensors to the app is surprisingly easy works with garage band the bad latency really holds you back the app could use some work it's pretty expensive setup process can be pretty stressful 6 overall related topicsaudiobluetoothdrumminggadgetsmusicnewsreviews kevin raposo founder & editor. email me at kevin@knowtechie.com comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in gadgets the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 if you're looking to make the jump into the world vr headsets, this is... the best tech to help you have a productive morning these are five amazing things that anyone can purchase for a reasonable price and... how to enable alexa devices to play radio stations alexa gets even more useful. wyze introduces two new smart gadgets to its lineup – a $25 wearable and $20 smart scale wyze is back at it, with more affordable smart products for you and your... review: wyze lock – an affordable smart lock with minimal features a straightforward smart lock for your dumb door. the best tech to hoard during a pandemic just add hot pockets and tuna. the best sleep tech money can buy right now technology does more than keep you awake. the best crowdfunding campaigns to check out in march 2020 candles, watches, toys, and more. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie