politics | arts | entertainment | lifestyle | business | health | events newsletters search for: submit observer archives politics national international new york new jersey editorials national security arts theater visual art dance opera lifestyle fashion celebrity food & drink home design real estate travel business technology personal finance startups internet culture media entertainment tv movies music books health psychology relationships fitness nutrition videos events newsletters rex reed rex reed, one of the most renowned film critics in american history, has been reviewing movies for the observer for nearly the entirety of the paper's existence. before coming to the observer, reed wrote for vogue, gq, the new york times, the daily news and the new york post. he is the author of eight books, including the best seller 'do you sleep in the nude?' and his profile of the aging ava gardner was included in tom wolfe's classic anthology, 'the new journalism.' he is also an actor and the former co-host of the syndicated television show "at the movies." you’re much better off steering clear of ‘the roads not taken’ the amateurish ‘inside the rain’ fails on so many levels by rex reed ‘the postcard killings’ is tasteless at just about every turn by rex reed annette bening’s ‘hope gap’ is a pithy, insightful film about love by rex reed ‘the way back’ proves ben affleck is still an underrated actor by rex reed ‘beneath us’ is a zero-star farrago of tasteless stupidity by rex reed ‘standing up, falling down’ is a dismal excuse for understated comedy by rex reed ‘the night clerk’ is a “thriller” without thrills, suspense or tension by rex reed the cgi dog is lovable forever in ‘the call of the wild’ by rex reed julia louis-dreyfus and will ferrell’s ‘downhill’ is worse than stale popcorn by rex reed liam neeson and lesley manville keep ‘ordinary love’ close to the heart by rex reed observer politics entertainment lifestyle arts health contact about advertise newsletters sitemap privacy terms powered by wordpress.com vip we noticed you're using an ad blocker. we get it: you like to have control of your own internet experience. but advertising revenue helps support our journalism. to read our full stories, please turn off your ad blocker.  we'd really appreciate it. how do i whitelist observer? how do i whitelist observer? below are steps you can take in order to whitelist observer.com on your browser: for adblock: click the adblock button on your browser and select don't run on pages on this domain. for adblock plus on google chrome: click the adblock plus button on your browser and select enabled on this site. for adblock plus on firefox: click the adblock plus button on your browser and select disable on observer.com. then reload the page