skip to content sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the tuesday news books, arts & manners all articles authors podcasts photos games videos podcasts the editors mad dogs & englishmen give me liberty the mccarthy report victor davis hanson for life political beats constitutionally speaking the great books the bookmonger radio free california ordered liberty photos news & events cartoons culture military science & technology sports world magazine latest issue archive subscribe give nr as a gift customer care nrplus topics politics & policy elections culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business about faq about us the masthead emails & alerts wine club careers advertise donate contact us privacy policy terms of service nr institute search send a tip instagram primary menu national review large national review logo small national review logo donate the corner ... subscribe search national review search text mar. 27, 2020 subscribe ... rich lowry follow @richlowry get author's rss feed rich lowry is the editor of national review. read more rich lowry is the editor of national review. he writes for politico, and often appears on such public affairs programs as meet the press and this week with george stephanopoulos. he is a regular panelist on the kcrw program left, right, and center. he is the author of lincoln unbound and legacy: paying the price for the clinton years — a new york times bestseller. lowry began his career as a research assistant for charles krauthammer. in 1997 he was selected by william f. buckley to lead national review. the latest elections the cipher as presidential candidate by rich lowry 6:30 am if the party had decided to order up a generic representative, it couldn’t have done any better than joe biden. politics & policy it’s best to avoid creating unnecessary national crises because you never know when a real one might arise by rich lowry 2:19 am just imagine if the impeachment trial had dragged on and truly intersected with the coronavirus crisis. white house the trump uptick by rich lowry march 26, 2020 the president’s approval rating trades in a pretty narrow band but has definitely been on the upswing. elections the presidential candidate as cipher by rich lowry march 26, 2020 what william mckinley was to the front porch campaign, joe biden is to the basement campaign. world progress in italy? by rich lowry march 24, 2020 some hopeful indications in the latest case numbers... health care lessons from asia by rich lowry march 24, 2020 some points to consider. economy & business ‘this is not sustainable’ by rich lowry march 24, 2020 i wrote today about the economic costs of the lockdowns and the imperative to come up with more-focused solutions. economy & business this is not sustainable by rich lowry march 24, 2020 nor will people stand for it except as a temporary expedient. world thank you, china by rich lowry march 22, 2020 the new york times has a compelling graphic representation of the spread of the coronavirus. world the catastrophe in italy by rich lowry march 22, 2020 the numbers in italy keep getting worse, with nearly 800 fatalities on saturday. why is it so bad? load more stories from this section load more top stories photo essays 2 view slide show cartoons cartoons of the day: march 27, 2020 114 view slide show news & events deserted cityscapes 58 view slide show news & events social distancing more in photos facebook twitter ... © 2020 national review donate subscribe sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the g-file news books, arts & manners all articles all authors podcasts photos games videos topics politics & policy culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business elections magazine latest issue archive subscribe gve nr as a gift customer care nrplus about frequently asked questions about us the masthead contact us careers privacy policy terms of service nr institute more advertise donate search e-mails & alerts send a tip newsletters morning jolt (m-f) nr daily (m-sa) breaking news (m-su) email © 2020 national review close ad close national review navigation loading...