australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 10:24 edt ridley scott rips 'nutcase' donald trump's coronavirus response the legendary director said there are “very few worthwhile” politicians. by lee moran, huffpost us ridley scott is less than impressed with president donald trump’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. in an interview with variety published thursday, the legendary director was asked about how politicians worldwide are handling the public health crisis that has now sickened more than 520,000 people and killed at least 23,000. “particularly with this orange-headed fellow that’s running us, he’s a nutcase, isn’t he?” responded scott, who paused production of his upcoming movie “the last duel” earlier this month amid concern over the outbreak. “looking at the globalization of the politicians that are running the world, half the time being run by idiots and the other time by despots, there are very few worthwhile ones, if you know what i mean,” scott said. “no one wants to go into politics. if anyone has half a brain, they wouldn’t want to go into politics anyway, right?” scott did single out new york gov. andrew cuomo (d) for praise, however, suggesting the governor would “put himself on the map certainly” with his calm and straightforward briefings. british-born scott, 82, acknowledged “old geezers like me have gotta watch my back.” people over 65 are considered to be at a higher risk of having severe complications from covid-19, the illness caused by the coronavirus. scott also suggested the introduction of rationing to minimize food waste from stockpiling. “in england as well, i mean, jesus, boris, get out your thinking cap, ’cause what we’re now talking on is an iphone, a perfect coupon distributor to limit what you can buy each time you go to the shops,” he said, referencing british prime minister boris johnson, who announced friday that he had tested positive for coronavirus. “and that way, you have order,” scott said. “you must have order and calm.” read the full interview here. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction lee moran reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus covid-19 boris johnson ridley scott trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too coronavirus in condos: what residents should know about covid-19 subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.