/ carla sinclair / 9:26 am fri mar 27, 2020 rip: 'desperately seeking susan' actor mark blum dies of coronavirus follow us twitter / facebook / rss actor mark blum, famous for his roles in crocodile dundee and my favorite — the memorable uptight nerd-yuppie husband in desperately seeking susan, which starred madonna and roseanne arquette, has died of covid-19. from cnn: mark blum, a veteran stage actor known for films including "desperately seeking susan" and "crocodile dundee," has died due to complications from covid-19, according to a statement released by the screen actors guild. blum was 69. though he was perhaps best known for the 1985 film "desperately seeking susan," in which he starred alongside madonna and rosanna arquette, he most recently appeared in supporting tv roles on the hbo series "succession," the netflix drama "you" and amazon's "mozart in the jungle." he was a staple in the new york theater community, frequently appearing on broadway, including the revival of "twelve angry men," though he appeared off broadway much more often. blum was a regular player with playwrights horizons, an off-broadway theater in new york. the company remembered him on twitter. with love and heavy hearts, playwrights horizons pays tribute to mark blum, a dear longtime friend and a consummate artist who passed this week. thank you, mark, for all you brought to our theater, and to theaters and audiences across the world. we will miss you. pic.twitter.com/nmvzfb5hpb — playwrights horizons (@phnyc) march 26, 2020 share / tweet / 2 comments coronavirus / covid-19 get the boing boing newsletter coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest watch white house coronavirus official dr. birx suck up to dear leader obsequiously “[trump is] so attentive to the scientific literature & the details & the data. i think his ability to analyze & integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit.” read the rest americans are coronavirus panic-buying spiral hams and oatmilk this right here is some seriously weird data from nielsen today, about the sorts of things americans have been purchasing as the coronavirus outbreak, and corresponding fear, spread. read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support