about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ roasted garlic bread 24 comments jump to recipe my grandma virginia makes the best garlic bread. it’s soft and buttery in the middle, irresistibly garlicky, and we all love it. amongst a family of picky kids, the garlic bread was always a winner. this garlic bread recipe brings back warm memories, although it’s quite a bit different. this bread is crisp and crusty with deep roasted garlic flavor. since roasted garlic is inherently buttery in flavor and texture, i was able to cut the amount of butter in half. i’ve had this recipe in my back pocket since sharing my tutorial on how to roast garlic. i second-guessed publishing it, since this recipe takes longer to make than your average garlic bread. on the other hand, it’s a simple, comforting side dish that goes well with many homemade meals. if you’re making some saucy pasta tonight, how about a side of garlic bread? i’m working hard on a pantry resource guide for you and will be back soon. roasted garlic bread ingredients roasted garlic the length of time required to roast garlic varies from 40 to 70 minutes, depending on the garlic’s age, quantity used, etc. you can roast the garlic in advance and refrigerate it for later (see recipe notes), or give yourself plenty of time to make this bread. butter we’ll need half as much butter as usual, so four tablespoons. the recipe calls for unsalted butter plus some salt—if you’re using salted butter, omit the salt. bread i’ve made this garlic bread with whole foods’ ciabatta as well as ibis bakery bread (local to kansas city). both were good, but local sourdough was definitely better! fresh parsley or dried oregano we’ll finish off the bread with a light sprinkle of green garnish—fresh parsley if you have it, or dried oregano from the pantry. typically, when you’re substituting dried herbs for fresh, you’ll want to use one-third of the amount suggested. i’m suggesting dried oregano over dried parsley because dried parsley is practically tasteless (or is that just my dried parsley?). if you don’t have either option on hand, just skip the garnish. what to serve with roasted garlic bread this crusty bread would offer some nice contrast to hearty italian soups and creamy bisques. it would also be delicious with a big salad, or of course with saucy pasta and just about any italian entrée. please let me know how your bread turns out in the comments! i love hearing from you. please also tell me what resources will be helpful for you during this time. print roasted garlic bread author: cookie and kate prep time: 10 minutes cook time: 1 hour total time: 1 hour 10 minutes yield: 1 loaf 1x category: side method: baked cuisine: italian diet: vegetarian ★★★★★ 4.9 from 7 reviews this garlic bread recipe is made with roasted garlic, which takes it to another level! this buttery garlic spread is made with half the butter, too. keep in mind that roasted garlic requires 40 to 70 minutes in the oven, and you’ll need to roast the garlic first*. recipe yields one loaf of garlic bread (about 12 slices). scale 1x2x3x ingredients 1 loaf (16 ounces) ciabatta bread or crusty french bread 4 heads roasted garlic 4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened** ¼ teaspoon fine sea salt 1 teaspoon finely chopped fresh flat-leaf parsley, or a light sprinkle of dried oregano instructions preheat the oven to 400 degrees fahrenheit. using a serrated knife, slice through the loaf of bread horizontally to make two evenly-sized slabs. place them on a large, rimmed baking sheet (lined with parchment paper for easy clean-up, if desired). remove the cloves of roasted garlic from the heads. in a shallow bowl or plate, mash the cloves with a fork until mostly smooth. add the butter and salt and mash it all together until evenly combined. scoop half of the mixture onto the cut side of one piece of bread, and spread it evenly across with a butter knife or spatula. repeat with the remaining garlic on the remaining bread. bake for 5 minutes (for softer bread) or 10 to 12 minutes, until golden at the edges and crisp enough to resist a gentle squeeze (for toasted bread as shown in photos). sprinkle with parsley. once cool enough to handle, slice into pieces about 2 to 3 inches wide with a serrated knife. serve promptly. bread should be consumed or refrigerated within 2 hours. notes *prepare in advance: you can roast the garlic up to 3 days in advance. remove the cloves when they’re cool enough to handle and promptly refrigerate. **if you forget: i always forget to pull the butter out of the fridge in advance. cut the butter into 1-tablespoon segments. microwave it in a bowl for 10 to 15 seconds, just until softened. also, if you’re using salted butter, omit the added salt in this recipe. make it dairy free/vegan: you could try substituting extra-virgin olive oil for the butter! vegan butter is also an option. miyoko’s creamery butter would be my pick. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes avocado toast (plus tips & variations) cranberry crostini tomato basil bruschetta with balsamic drizzle share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories appetizers, christmas, egg free, fall, italian, nut free, recipes, side dishes, soy free, spring, thanksgiving, tomato free, winter ▸ ingredients toasts ↢ newer 50 pantry-friendly recipes & substitutions that work older ↣ lemony green pasta with peas & ricotta by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) hayley march 15, 2020 your photos are mouth watering, kate! i can’t wait to try this. i’m sure it is, as you say, worth the extra effort! reply kate march 18, 2020 i hope you love it when you try it! be sure to let me know what you think. reply kiki march 15, 2020 re roasted garlic. i make a whole baking sheet full of garlic heads. after they are soft, and a little cooler, i squeeze them out of the shells. i mush/smash them and freeze them, so there is always roasted garlic by the way, i love your recipes. ★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 thank you for sharing your method, kiki! reply julie stroeve march 15, 2020 178 calories and 26+/- carb grams…what size serving is this, please? thank you! reply kate march 16, 2020 hi there! that’s based on one slice (of twelve slices total). the carbs come from the bread, mainly. reply charles matthews march 15, 2020 outstanding recipe! it has been a long while, but i used to make garlic bread like this. thank you for the great newsletter and recipes. nine months ago, i decided to eliminate meat and poultry from my diet. i don’t miss it and you make it better. ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome! i hope you like this one as much, if not more, than the one you use to make. i appreciate your comment and review, charles! reply sofia march 15, 2020 the extra time is definitely worth it. i used vegan butter and we topped half our bread with vegan cheese. my non-vegan partner’s first response was, “wow”. the garlic just melts right in. and we were so happy we didn’t have to use foil with your method. definitely a new fave to go with pasta night! ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 i love that! thanks for sharing how you made this work vegan for you, sofia. i appreciate your comment and review! reply olivia march 15, 2020 perfect timing! just made this with pasta and it was sooooooo good! it is so garlicy in the best way! and the ingredient are so simple. thanks for the recipe. definitely a keeper! ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 i love when that happens! thank you for sharing, olivia. reply generation786 march 16, 2020 i am very mush inspired after reading the nutrition value of your food recipes it is less in fat and cholesterol and high in vitamins and minerals, which is a good sign, ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 thank you! reply jen hodder march 16, 2020 grandma virginia’s recipe is a must! thank you! reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome! :) reply sadye march 17, 2020 a pantry-building guide sounds like a great idea to share — the resource i think i, personally, need the most now are the moments of escape and comfort … as in, just reading great recipes and thinking about delicious meals :) (not to say anyone should bury their head in the sand, of course!) reply kate march 18, 2020 thank you, sadye! i have the resource up on the blog now and hope you find it helpful, too. reply sadye march 20, 2020 yes, i enjoyed both the recent posts — i was actually thinking, after i made the comment, that what also might be helpful is recipes written with generalities versus specific ingredients. like, this many cups/ounces of veggies, this weight of pulses, etc. thanks for already being in the habit of adding notes on substitutions! reply curtis march 17, 2020 oh, goodness was this ever good. ate it with roasted red pepper and tomato soup with a simple green salad. a delicious, simple meal in an odious time — thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 18, 2020 you’re welcome! i love the sound of that combination, curtis. thank you for your comment and review! reply ss march 17, 2020 can this be made with gluten free bread? reply kate march 18, 2020 hi! you could try it. i recommend a thick bakery bread, if you can find it. i know some sourdough varieties can work, depending on your gluten sensitivities. of course, that is up to you based on your needs and potential allergy. reply cale march 22, 2020 i’ve never used roasted garlic for garlic bread before this, and i can’t believe i missed out for so many years. these were absolutely fantastic and my son (who’s a bit of a particular eater) loved them too! it was actually tough not to eat the garlic straight out of the oven; thanks so much for this gem! ★★★★★ reply hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}