/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss rob beschizza / 11:20 am fri british drivers swearing this might be the same compilation of british drivers swearing that mark posted in 2016, but that video was copyright-striked by "bad drivers of northamptonshire" so it's impossible to know for sure. in any case, it seems unlikely that there is only one compilation of british drivers swearing in existence. so enjoy it, you shitting peugeot. read the rest share / tweet / 13 comments britain / driving / nsfw rob beschizza / 7:47 am fri mayor: first u.s. teenager to die of coronavirus was denied treatment because he didn't have health insurance matt novak reports that the first teenager to die in the u.s. from covid-19 coronavirus infection was uninsured and denied treatment at the urgent care clinic he tried to check into. they told him to go to another hospital; he went into cardiac arrest on the way. a 17-year-old boy in los angeles county who became the first teen believed to have died from complications with covid-19 in the u.s. was denied treatment at an urgent care clinic because he didn’t have health insurance. ... “he didn’t have insurance, so they did not treat him,” [r. rex] parris said in a video posted to youtube. the staff at the urgent care facility told the teen to try the emergency room at antelope valley (av) hospital, a public hospital in the area, according to the mayor. parris is the mayor of lancaster, california. from the transcript of his remarks: "the friday before he died he was healthy. he was he was socializing with his friends. by wednesday he was dead. he had gone to an urgent care for an hmo he didn't have insurance so they did not treat him and sent him to av (antelope valley) hospital. en route to hospital he went into cardiac arrest. when he got to av hospital they were able to revive him and keep him alive for about six hours but by the time he got there it was too late" read the rest share / tweet / 52 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 5:48 am fri plan to buy ventilators suspended because the trump administration thinks it's a waste of money the white house cut a deal with general motors to manufacture 80,000 ventilators to fight the coronavirus pandemic. the new york times reports that the trump administration put off the announcement because it didn't like the price tag. the decision to cancel the announcement, government officials say, came after the federal emergency management agency said it needed more time to assess whether the estimated cost was prohibitive. that price tag was more than $1 billion, with several hundred million dollars to be paid upfront to general motors to retool a car parts plant in kokomo, ind., where the ventilators would be made with ventec’s technology. it's a war, we're told. with all our other wars, there's no limit to how much money is blasted into space, or burned making fighter jets that can't fly in the rain. but as congress passed a $2tn bailout, much of it for private corporations, another $1bn on life-saving medical equipment was sudden cause to worry about costs. read the rest share / tweet / 68 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 4:45 am fri british prime minister tests positive for coronavirus boris johnson, prime mininister of the united kingdom, today tested positive for covid-19, the novel coronavirus that's so far infected 500,000 people and killed 25,000 of them. in a tweet, mr johnson said: "over the last 24 hours i have developed mild symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus. i am now self-isolating, but i will continue to lead the government's response via video-conference as we fight this virus. "together we will beat this." embedded below is a video boris from a few days ago, boasting that "i shook hands with everybody" to show the virus who's in charge. aged so well pic.twitter.com/0bvxbi9ivb — james felton (@jimmfelton) march 27, 2020 over the last 24 hours i have developed mild symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus. i am now self-isolating, but i will continue to lead the government’s response via video-conference as we fight this virus. together we will beat this. #stayhomesavelives pic.twitter.com/9te6afp0ri — boris johnson #stayhomesavelives (@borisjohnson) march 27, 2020 read the rest share / tweet / 43 comments boris johnson / coronavirus / infected boris rob beschizza / 4:31 pm thu, mar 26, 2020 u.s. now has most coronavirus cases in the world congratulations! the united states of america now has more coronavirus cases than any other country, at least as far as test results go. with 83,507 confirmed cases, according to the johns hopkins coronavirus doom board, we're leaving china (81,782) and italy (80,589) in our wake. read the rest share / tweet / 72 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 8:35 am thu, mar 26, 2020 u.s. unemployment soars to 3.28m, four times the highest on record bloomberg news reports that the number of people claiming unemployment in the u.s. has spiked to 3.28m since the coronavirus outbreak took hold. that's four times the previous record and indicates an immediate, severe economic downturn. bloomberg's economists expect it to approach 5.5m next month. the magnitude of the economic devastation being wrought by the coronavirus pandemic was laid bare on thursday when the u.s. government reported an unprecedented surge in the number of people seeking jobless benefits. a total of 3.28 million people filed for unemployment insurance in the week ended march 21, dwarfing previous highs in labor department reports published since 1967. two weeks earlier, before closures of businesses swept across vast swaths of the country, the number stood at 211,000, close to a half-century low. stop asking right-wingers the rhetorical question "who would you nominate to die then?" when they talk about letting people die to save "the economy". they are eager to get started. read the rest share / tweet / 24 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 8:04 am thu, mar 26, 2020 the secret of triscuits revealed triscuits. in this staple of american snacking life, what does the "tri" stand for? one assumes, perhaps, that it refers to there being three layers, ingredients or some other triple quality of the snack itself. sage boggs emailed nabisco, and amazingly nabisco itself no longer remembers — it acquired triscuit's manufacturer in 1928 and the records are long gone — but it does assert that the tri is not a reference to "triple" or other three-related terms. boggs sleuthed it out based on the 1903 ad embedded above; read his twitter thread for the spoiler. ok, buckle up. i wanna talk to you about triscuit. pic.twitter.com/tg7334osbc — sage boggs (@sageboggs) march 26, 2020 read the rest share / tweet / 47 comments food rob beschizza / 7:05 am thu, mar 26, 2020 nine inch nails releases surprise new records nine inch nails released two new albums today, ghosts v: together and ghosts vi: locusts. they are follow-ups to 2008 ghosts i-iv. [via christian eede at the quietus] two different records for two different mindsets. download now for free. stay safe! read the rest share / tweet / 18 comments music / nin rob beschizza / 6:08 am thu, mar 26, 2020 corvid vs cat in an unscheduled break from covid, here's a corvid ruining a cat's day. read the rest share / tweet / 48 comments crows rob beschizza / 5:49 am thu, mar 26, 2020 us coronavirus death toll passes 1,000 more than a thousand people have died in the u.s. from covid-19, with at least 70,000 testing positive for the virus. johns hopkins university currently records 1,031 fatalities, up from 827 the day before. 487,648 diagnoses are registered worldwide, with the true number of infections far higher. the number of deaths in the u.s. has reached 1,041, according to the latest data from johns hopkins university. new york city has the highest number of fatalities at 280, followed by 100 in king county, washington state. the total number of cases in the u.s. was at 68,960, according to the data. read the rest share / tweet / 3 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 4:38 pm wed, mar 25, 2020 cheesecake factory tells landlords it won't be paying rent in april the cheesecake factory, with more than 200 restaurants across the u.s. and more than $2bn in annual revenues, today warned its landlords they will not be getting rent in april. the calabasas hills-based company informed all of its landlords in a letter dated march 18 (reproduced below) that a severe decline in restaurant traffic has decreased its cash flow and “inflicted a tremendous financial blow” to business. cheesecake factory’s affiliated restaurants, such as rock sugar and north italia, will also not make april 1 rent payments. company chairman and ceo david overton writes, “due to these extraordinary events, i am asking for your patience, and frankly, your help.” he continues, “we appreciate our landlords’ understanding given the exigency of the current situation.” the letter says that the company hopes to resume paying rent as soon as possible. read the rest share / tweet / 71 comments cake or death / coronavirus rob beschizza / 11:10 am wed, mar 25, 2020 "go away" doormat the handsome and timely "go away" doormat [amazon] is made of coconut fibers and described as "environmentally" friendly if not particularly friendly in other respects. as death's hand knocks louder, however, you might want to segue to more assertive messaging with the "fuck off" doormat. [h/t rusty] read the rest share / tweet / 6 comments housewares rob beschizza / 7:35 am wed, mar 25, 2020 taiwan lockdown: cops visited, threatened man whose phone ran out of batteries some strategies for combatting the spread of coronavirus probably wouldn't go down to well in america. such as banging on people's doors and threatening them if their phone goes dark and they can't be tracked. my phone, which is satellite-tracked by the taiwan gov to enforce quarantine, ran out of battery at 7:30 am. by 8:15, four different units called me. by 8:20, the police were knocking at my door. — milo hsieh (@milohsieh) march 22, 2020 my phone briefly ran out of battery at 07:30, and in less than an hour, four different local administrative units had called. a patrol was dispatched to check my whereabouts. a text was sent notifying that the government had lost track of me, and warned me of potential arrest if i had broken quarantine. i returned to taiwan last thursday to experience the island's zero-risk take on coronavirus. since i was coming back from europe, i am subjected to a mandatory 14 days home quarantine. before i had my passport checked, i had to pass through a booth set up by the ministry of health and welfare. i filled out a document detailing places i had visited in the last fortnight, my phone number, landline and address. they notified me that my phone would be "satellite-tracked" for enforcement. a thought to consider: the more the current administration in the u.s. bungles it, the more reasonable it will seem to propose draconian, unconstitutional measures to prevent disaster. trump and the gop have always wanted those things, so coronavirus creates a perverse incentive for them to cultivate crisis. read the rest share / tweet / 22 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 6:36 am wed, mar 25, 2020 london cops disperse parkful of sunbathers: "it's not a holiday, it's a lockdown!" if they're sunbathing in march on shepherd's bush green, reason is a questionable faculty to appeal to. but i do like seeing cops ask nicely, as opposed to "you have 20 seconds to comply" or whatever they're going to end up saying in alabama as an immediate prelude to watercannonading the locals. perhaps tutting played loudly over the public warning systems would be more effective? just someone's mum tutting and occasionally sighing. this could be an incredibly effective wide-area suppression system in the uk. read the rest share / tweet / 57 comments coronavirus / very aggravated indeed rob beschizza / 5:16 am wed, mar 25, 2020 prince charles tests positive for coronavirus prince charles, 71, is displaying "mild symptoms" after testing positive for covid-19, the fast-spreading novel coronavirus that has killed nearly 20,000 people and has the world on lockdown. charles and camilla are now self-isolating at balmoral. buckingham palace said the queen last saw her son, the heir to the throne, on 12 march, but was "in good health". the palace added that the duke of edinburgh was not present at that meeting, and that the queen was now "following all the appropriate advice with regard to her welfare". read the rest share / tweet / 52 comments coronavirus rob beschizza / 12:55 pm tue, mar 24, 2020 bag made with "ethically sourced" human child's spine this is the creation of avant-garde fashion designer arnold putra, claimed to be made with an ethically-sourced human child spine and alligator tongue leather. unfortunately, it's been memory holed since twitter found it. fortunately, the memory holers always forget about the bing cache. the arnold putra alligator tongue and human spine bag has been ethically sourced and crafted in a multiple panel construction. with an emphasis on protruding scar stitching lacing the outer construction of the bag, each wearer is encouraged to sculpt a form of his/her own sentiment. the unique silhouette is complimented by the human spine handle and raw edge finishes. technical in design and construction, this one off bag is an ideal statement piece. each piece of arnold putra is meticulously hand crafted in their atelier upon order, limited in availability and may take up to 14 days to arrive during busy periods. features: - limited to 1/1 - alligator tongue and human spine bag with a unique pattern construction - natural finish - protruding scar stitching finishes - large main compartment - raw edge finishes - limited in availability composition: - shell: 100% alligator tongue- shell: 100% human spine handle if you're thinking of diying it, it turns out that ethically-sourced human child spines are not on amazon, sadly, so you might have to wait three or more days to get the materials together. (throws horror writing career out of window) i got nothing on this reality. https://t.co/7ie25yx0gr — cassandra khaw (@casskhaw) march 24, 2020 i messaged them on whatsapp... read the rest share / tweet / 90 comments art / fashion rob beschizza / 8:32 am tue, mar 24, 2020 fox power on self-test the second beep indicates a problem with the video card — make sure it's seated properly, then reboop the system. read the rest share / tweet / 7 comments delightful creatures more posts read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support