content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip follow author: robert rose robert is the founder and chief strategy officer of the content advisory, the education and consulting group for the content marketing institute. robert has worked with more than 500 companies, including 15 of the fortune 100. he’s provided content marketing and strategy advice for global brands such as capital one, nasa, dell, mccormick spices, hewlett packard, microsoft, and the bill & melinda gates foundation. robert’s third book – killing marketing, with co-author joe pulizzi has been called the “book that rewrites the rules of marketing.” his second book – experiences: the seventh era of marketing is a top seller and has been called a “treatise, and a call to arms for marketers to lead business innovation in the 21st century.” robert’s first book, managing content marketing, spent two weeks as a top 10 marketing book on amazon.com and is generally considered to be the “owners manual” of the content marketing process. you can catch up with robert on his popular podcast - the weekly wrap. follow him on twitter @robert_rose. company news by robert-rose published march 27, 2020 which content marketers will do well in the post-shutdown world? [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending march 27, 2020 this week i’m wondering when we can just “say when.” i explore how a kumbaya moment between consumer and b2b magazines may offer a new model for content monetization for brand publishers. brainrider’s jon kane talks with me about content marketing in these challenging (and rapidly changing) days. and i point out an article that will help you decide when (and how) the news should disrupt your content calendar. continue reading company news by robert-rose published march 20, 2020 the new and future reality of virtual events [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending march 20, 2020 this week i’m thinking about how we all need to watch our tone. i share a news article about in-person events that makes me think of that fortune-cookie game – instead of adding the phrase “in bed” to the end, just add the word “virtual” to the event title. i talk with marketing consultant dennis shiao about the right way to do virtual events. and i point you to an article about the magic of ghostwriting. continue reading company news by robert-rose published march 13, 2020 how to make content your brand’s safety net [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending march 13, 2020 this week i’m thinking about how content can act as a safety net. i share a fresh take on a new claim that cmo shine (and pay) is on the decline. megan gilhooly joins me to talk about how content teams can find data about everything from the customer experience to the customer journey and customer sentiment. and i point you to an article about the right and wrong way to use vanity metrics. continue reading company news by robert-rose published march 6, 2020 why you should have opinions and embrace creativity [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending march 6, 2020 this week i’m wondering whether we’re spiraling into silence – and what we can do about it. i talk about whether salesforce’s acquisition of the cmo club is the first of many. jason miller joins me to talk about how creativity may be the only real edge we have over machines. and i share an article that explores the power behind purpose-driven brands. continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 28, 2020 ad age content marketing finalists are ads. it’s wrong and it matters. first – a preface. the following post is a bit of a rant, and it’s mostly directed at me. mea culpa here. we at cmi are self-described evangelists of the approach and philosophy of content marketing. we care. and i quite frankly have built a career about getting it right. when others don’t, that responsibility lies squarely upon our shoulders. continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 27, 2020 avoid predictions and analyze the possibilities of the future [the weekly wrap] editor’s note: sometimes you need to break the rules. we’re publishing the weekly wrap a day early to make room for a timely (and related) post from robert rose. read and listen now. then check back tomorrow. listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending feb. 28, 2020 this week i’m wondering about stories from the future. i look at ad age’s content marketing awards – and find them to be aged ads. i talk with trend hunter and innovation expert jeremy gutsche about a methodology for seeing into the future. and i share several articles about future-proofing your content marketing strategy. continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 24, 2020 no one can break your content rules if they don’t exist you’re a rule breaker, iconoclast, rebel. you are somebody who won’t take “no” for an answer. sounds like an ad for apple doesn’t it? these days we tend to celebrate the rule breakers. we’re taught that great leaders take risks and disrupt the status quo. they innovate by breaking the established rules with something better. until, that is, the rule breaker breaks a rule that we like. continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 21, 2020 the truth in content marketing: what is and what ought to be true [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending feb. 21, 2020 this week i’m exploring the difference between what is true and what ought to be true. i share a news article about the problem with advertising and data. i talk with the authors of a new book about the internal workings of content marketing. and i recommend an article that gives you three strategies for connecting with your audience (hint: start with mutual truths). continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 14, 2020 avoid the heartbreak of lengthy strategies, expert assumptions, and more [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending feb. 14, 2020 this week i’m thinking about the trap between strategy and planning. i offer my take on a new article that claims publishing less content is helping publishers grow their audiences. veteran content marketer rich schwerin shares his thoughts about the business challenges of content strategy today. and i point you to an article about deconstructing a content marketing platform to come up with a better content marketing plan. continue reading company news by robert-rose published february 7, 2020 under pressure? don’t worry, stop overthinking [the weekly wrap] listen to the weekly wrap here or subscribe on apple podcasts or stitcher. if you enjoy the show, please take a moment to rate it or post a review. and that’s a wrap of the week ending february 7, 2020 this week i’m ruminating on rumination (and suggesting an alternative to overthinking things). i offer my fresh take on the role of content marketing in brand activism. julia mccoy joins me to talk about how following her gut instinct – even when it scared her – helped her build a profitable content marketing business that ended up being a true lifeline. finally, i share an article that will help you quit worrying and find and fix the inefficiencies in your content pipeline. continue reading 1 2 3 … 11 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree