skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search rokr this author has written 233 articles home » archives for rokr 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 7 comments looking for a gallery plugin for your wordpress website? we have showcased the best gallery plugins that you can download for free. depending on the content your website is all about, installing a tool from our best free wordpress gallery… read more→ 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments to start making the most with your blog, the simplest way is to use one of free wordpress advertising plugins. it can be a struggle to monetize your website, but by picking a solid tool, you can have your first… read more→ 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into the best paid wordpress advertising plugins. after all, you do plan to make money with your fantastic and content-rich blog, don't you? after testing out… read more→ 21 best free wordpress booking plugins 2020 march 27, 2020 rokr plugins 4 comments your reservation- and appointment-based businesses are fully sorted with free wordpress booking plugins. while you can sign up with some of the world's leading online websites to do the booking and promotion for you, sometimes, it is better to have… read more→ 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 rokr plugins 2 comments you might be owning a chain of hotels, or you are a coach, with any of the top paid wordpress booking plugins, you can save yourself a lot of time and work. plus, be very eco-friendly, avoiding all the paper… read more→ 18 paid wordpress affiliate plugins for business growth 2020 march 26, 2020 rokr plugins 3 comments instead of searching through the web all on your own, find the most refined paid wordpress affiliate plugins all in one place. we managed to gather quite a few great solutions for your business growth. still, it is great to… read more→ 18 best podcasting wordpress themes 2020 march 24, 2020 rokr theme collections 4 comments there is nothing that should be holding you back with our highly compelling collection of the best wordpress podcasting themes. an entirely new specter of possibilities opens up for you without the need to be a tech wizard. you can… read more→ 102 free simple website templates based on html & css 2020 march 21, 2020 rokr website templates 9 comments whoever is looking for a quick start of his online project, these free simple html templates are the perfect tool to start with. no need to look further if the minimalist look is what you are after. sometimes, keeping it… read more→ 95 best free bootstrap 4 templates for portfolio, business & landing pages 2020 march 21, 2020 rokr website templates 28 comments throughout the entire collection of our best free bootstrap 4 templates, you are treated only with the finest tools for building professional pages. with these, you can craft any type of online project site both for your personal and business… read more→ 12 wordpress podcasting plugins to grow your audience 2020 march 20, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments whoever is looking for the best wordpress podcasting plugins, the search ends now. after going through a bunch of different solutions and tools, we picked only the best ones. a collection for you to benefit from is now ready and… read more→ 17 best wordpress membership plugins 2020 march 19, 2020 rokr plugins 4 comments whether you are just starting out or have already gained some traction, with wordpress membership plugins, you can monetize your page and get it lucrative. whether a blog with exclusive content, a course-oriented platform, or a subscription-based business, whatever your… read more→ 114 responsive & free html website templates 2020 march 15, 2020 rokr website templates 13 comments to find the best free html website templates, you would probably need to spend countless hours searching the web. you might be born under the lucky star, however, for all the rest, we did all the hard work for you.… read more→ 21 best cryptocurrency wordpress plugins, widgets & scripts 2020 march 13, 2020 rokr plugins 1 comment if you are building a website for the coin market, then you most certainly need a selection of cryptocurrency wordpress plugins. maybe one is enough, but you might be in need of two or even three. while some cryptocurrency wordpress… read more→ 16 best responsive paid wordpress gallery plugins 2020 march 13, 2020 rokr plugins 1 comment to bring your photo content to an entirely new level, paid wordpress gallery plugins are the right way to go. so far, you were using a free gallery plugin for wordpress but you feel it is time to upgrade. in… read more→ 16 best free wordpress instagram plugins for your killer feeds march 12, 2020 rokr plugins 0 comments by picking any of the following free wordpress instagram plugins, you can enhance your website with more awesome visuals. you can use your own profile or someone else's as the source. also, blending instagram posts into your blog or website… read more→ 16 best free wordpress affiliate plugins to crush it in 2020 march 12, 2020 rokr plugins 1 comment if you are coming up with solutions on how to monetize your website, these free wordpress affiliate plugins are a fantastic way to make it happen. while amazon might be one of the most widely popular affiliates, there are a… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 … page 15 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×