rolling stone send us a tip subscribe menu close the menu music tv movies politics culture video charts pro menu close the menu read next dolly parton tells fans to keep the faith during coronavirus pandemic send us a tip subscribe get the magazine the best in culture from a cultural icon. subscribe now for more from the authority on music, entertainment, politics and pop culture. plus, get a limited-edition tote free. subscribe now newsletter signup sign up for our newsletter and go inside the world of music, culture and entertainment. sign up greta’s world posted in: politics features how one swedish teenager armed with a homemade sign ignited a crusade and became the leader of a movement hear bob dylan’s new song, ‘murder most foul’ posted in: music news ‘rs interview: special edition’ with pete buttigieg posted in: politics news the latest coronavirus cancellations: festivals, concerts, tours affected by the outbreak posted in: music news watch midland sing joe exotic’s ‘i saw a tiger’ from ‘tiger king’ posted in: country music the best 4k media streamers posted in: electronics song you need to know: waxahatchee, ‘oxbow’ posted in: music news more news trending hear bob dylan’s absolutely mind-blowing new song ‘murder most foul’ trump suggests states need to bribe him with praise to get federal assistance for covid-19 watch robbie robertson play ‘the weight’ with ringo starr and musicians across five continents trump, in tweet, says he’s considering plan that would kill a lot of people doj wants to suspend certain constitutional rights during coronavirus emergency coronavirus more coronavirus coverage why don’t more boomers care about coronavirus? 8 ways to be a good citizen in the time of coronavirus what it’s like to be one of the millions of newly unemployed americans features 50 greatest rock memoirs awesome rock & roll reads, from keith richards and patti smith to slash and nikki sixx grimes: live from the future kenny rogers: 10 essential songs marcus mumford: the rolling stone interview planet plastic music view all you have set the display of this section to be hidden. click the button to the right to show it again. hide show watch midland sing joe exotic’s ‘i saw a tiger’ from ‘tiger king’ posted in: country music by joseph hudak "mr. lonely" hitmakers tackle the netflix docuseries' outrageous country ballad song you need to know: waxahatchee, ‘oxbow’ posted in: music news by angie martoccio the opening track to katie crutchfield's new album, 'saint cloud,' opens up a new world of americana bliss chilean pop star javiera mena goes back to the future in ‘flashback’ posted in: latin music by suzy exposito trailblazing singer teases new album, slated for 2020 release dolly parton tells fans to keep the faith during coronavirus pandemic posted in: country music by claire shaffer "don’t be too scared. it’s gonna be alright, god loves us." jennifer nettles fosters hope with inspiring rendition of ‘tomorrow’ posted in: country music by jon freeman singer releases new video set to the 'annie' standard as a response to covid-19 isolation the 100 best albums of the 2010s album reviews dua lipa future nostalgia your self-isolation dance party soundtrack is here. read more the weeknd after hours his epic breakup album feels right for our cold, lonely times read more waxahatchee saint cloud katie crutchfield backs her sharp observations with a sound that reflects her southern roots. read more lil uzi vert eternal atake the space-y rap superstar's highly anticipated new album was more than worth the wait. read more politics view all you have set the display of this section to be hidden. click the button to the right to show it again. hide show trump pushes to knock hundreds of thousands off of food stamps while covid-19 death toll rises posted in: politics news by peter wade the usda wants to remove people from food stamps regardless of the change in the employment environment from coronavirus the coronavirus nightmare crippling new york will soon be in cities nationwide posted in: politics news by andy kroll and we're not ready for it inequality is immune to the coronavirus posted in: political commentary by jamil smith washington’s disaster relief reminds us that not even a pandemic deters the pursuit of plutocracy the coronavirus is a fast-motion climate crisis posted in: political commentary by sean woods scientists ignored, government watchdogs gutted, corporate profits prioritized. sound familiar? zero hour: there’s no stopping climate change, but how bad it gets is still up to us posted in: politics features by jeff goodell it is more important than ever that we eliminate fossil fuels and reduce suffering in a warming world the rs politics 2020 democratic primary leaderboard columnists matt taibbi russia isn’t dividing us — our leaders are a last-ditch effort to derail the sanders campaign fails as voters finally reject the russia con tessa stuart activist superstars join forces to drive women to the polls in 2020 cecile richards, ai-jen poo, and alicia garza on the fight to achieve gender parity in american politics jamil smith fox news, still a danger to public health the channel's biggest names lied to viewers, likely at the expense of human lives. why should anyone ever listen to anything they have to say again? video view all watch squirrel flower cook risotto, give tour of her childhood home music rolling stone's latest artist you need to know cooks and discusses her music the breakdown: billie eilish and finneas on ‘bad guy’ say anything: lizzo watch squirrel flower cook risotto, give tour of her childhood home the first time: pop smoke carrie brownstein and maggie rogers discuss songwriting, longevity in exclusive video tv view all you have set the display of this section to be hidden. click the button to the right to show it again. hide show big cats, cults and murder: inside the making of netflix’s ‘tiger king’ posted in: tv features by phoebe reilly how two documentarians turned a look into the wild life of a wildlife enthusiast into netflix's latest big hit ‘killing eve’ season three is dropping early, watch the trailer now posted in: tv news by brenna ehrlich villanelle is kitted out like a clown in the new clip dr. anthony fauci talks coronavirus misconceptions with trevor noah posted in: tv news by jon blistein director of national institute of allergy and infectious diseases explains why covid-19 is "the worst nightmare" of infectious diseases watch joe biden respond to the coronavirus pandemic on ‘kimmel’ posted in: tv news by emily zemler former vice president also discussed his campaign and running mate selection process ‘brooklyn nine-nine’ recap: all that glitters posted in: tv recaps by alan sepinwall j.k. simmons' detective dillman stops by to help solve a mystery in a bottle episode that rivals the show's best 50 best tv shows of the decade tv reviews westworld despite a new setting and some fresh faces, hbo's blockbuster sci-fi series reverts to familiar tropes in its latest outing read more twenties in bet's bright new comedy about a trio of young friends trying to make it big, the creator looks back on her early days in showbiz read more devs alex garland’s new sci-fi series is a confounding and mesmerizing trip into a scary near-future read more i am not okay with this star sophia lillis carries this eighties-inflected comic-book adaptation, which leans on style over substance read more movies view all you have set the display of this section to be hidden. click the button to the right to show it again. hide show ‘contagion’ stars reunite for psas to ‘control’ coronavirus posted in: movie news by daniel kreps matt damon, kate winslet, laurence fishburne and jennifer ehle team with columbia university for videos aimed at fighting "misleading, inaccurate messages" about covid-19 watch hugh jackman face up to corruption in ‘bad education’ trailer posted in: movie news by emily zemler allison janney and ray romano also star in the hbo movie ‘resistance’ review: jesse eisenberg has the mime of his life posted in: movie reviews by peter travers biopic about the late, great marcel marceau flashes back to the artist's early days as french resistance fighter during ww ii stuart gordon, ‘re-animator’ director, dead at 72 posted in: movie news by daniel kreps filmmaker who specialized in adapting h.p. lovecraft also co-created the 'honey, i shrunk the kids' franchise ‘crip camp’ review: netflix doc revisits ground zero for disability rights movement posted in: movie reviews by peter travers a look back at how a new york summer camp helped form a generation of political firebrands is the definition of inspiring 50 most-anticipated movies of 2020 movie reviews the hunt the politically charged thriller that trump didn't want you to see finally hits theaters — and proves to be a better-then-decent b-movie read more spenser confidential the legendary pulp-lit detective gets an update (and a new backstory), while mark wahlberg charms and coldcocks his way into a franchise read more first cow kelly reichardt returns to the past for a quietly profound tale of two enterprising men, a cow, a crime, and a nation on the verge of change read more the burnt orange heresy not even mick jagger can lift up this slowburn thriller about a rich collector, a reclusive painter and a rare work of art read more photo galleries view all you have set the display of this section to be hidden. click the button to the right to show it again. hide show 31 photos live music in crisis: scenes from america’s venues america’s live-music venues are facing unprecedented challenges. see scenes from the clubs, hear from their owners, […] 14 photos photojournalist yunghi kim documents new york city subway during covid-19 12 photos panic at the costco 15 photos haim deli tour at sarge’s newswire powered by ‘dynasty’s adam huber teases huge twist & reveals his hopes for ‘power couple’ liam & fallon posted on: hollywoodlife posted 3 hours ago saks, hudson’s bay and tapestry step up with donations posted on: wwd posted 4 hours ago staples center, la convention center, aqueduct racetrack and oc fairgrounds could be used as emergency hospitals posted on: deadline posted 4 hours ago ‘there’s something in the water’ review: ellen page’s urgent netflix documentary confronts environmental racism posted on: indiewire posted 3 hours ago ‘big brother’ flashback: watch this secret scene of kandi burruss singing ‘the star-spangled banner’ [video] posted on: goldderby posted 3 hours ago rolling stone music tv movies politics culture rs pro advertise contact live media events customer service legal privacy policy terms of use adchoices pmc entertainment california privacy rights do not sell my personal information eu privacy preferences connect with us facebook twitter youtube get the magazine subscribe now give a gift newsletter signup submit have a tip? we want to hear from you! send us a tip using our anonymous form. send us a tip © copyright 2018 rolling stone, llc, a subsidiary of penske business media, llc. powered by wordpress.com vip our brands variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows our brands variety deadline rolling stone wwd hollywoodlife gold derby spy robb report footwear news bgr indiewire sourcing journal tvline fairchild media she knows close the menu rolling stone musicexpand the sub menu news lists album reviews artist you need to know song you need to know rs country rs latin pictures features live reviews videos tvexpand the sub menu lists news features pictures recaps reviews videos moviesexpand the sub menu lists pictures news reviews features videos politicsexpand the sub menu features news lists pictures videos cultureexpand the sub menu features lists news videos sports chartsexpand the sub menu top 100 songs top 200 albums artists 500 trending 25 breakthrough 25 moreexpand the sub menu videos rs recommends rs pro live media events subscribe now follow us share onfacebook share ontwitter share onyoutube alerts & newsletters sign up advertise contact customer service submit a tip pmc © 2020 penske media corporation ad rs live media logo created with sketch. arrow created with sketch. calendar created with sketch. path created with sketch. shape created with sketch. plus created with sketch. minus created with sketch. rs-charts-logo created with sketch.