got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... royals ‘stunned & horrified’ by meghan & harry’s move to usa?? home › meghan markle › royals ‘stunned & horrified’ by meghan & harry’s move to usa?? we heard on thursday meghan markle and prince harry had quietly pulled the trigger on their hollywood plans and moved from their vancouver island mansion to a new home in los angeles — apparently in the middle of a global pandemic! we aren’t exactly virus experts, but an island off the coast of british columbia definitely seems safer than a major metropolitan area which is currently on lockdown. and they have baby archie to think about, too! related: meghan reportedly won’t let harry travel to visit sick prince charles so what exactly couldn’t wait? according to a royal insider speaking to the sun, it was the crisis which accelerated their plans. the source says: “the borders were closing and flights were stopping. they had to get out.” the us/canada border did indeed close to all non-essential travel at midnight last friday to try to stop the spread of the novel coronavirus. the announcement was made on monday, march 16. the sussexes must have slipped through during that gap last week. the insider continues: “but this move was planned for some time. they realised canada would not work out for various reasons and they want to be based in the los angeles area. they have a big support network there. it’s where their new team of hollywood agents and prs and business managers are based. meghan has lots of friends there and, of course, her mum doria.” “hollywood agents and prs and business managers.” if there was any doubt harry and meghan were going full show biz, this can’t be helping it. so what do the royals think of all this? according to the outlet’s sources, courtiers really thought the duke and duchess might use the opportunity to return home — but certainly didn’t expect them to brave the pandemic to move further away! (if not geographically then conceptually at least — canada is a commonwealth, and queen elizabeth is technically their monarch.) one royal declared: “we are stunned and horrified. the country is going through a traumatic event at the moment.” they continued: “they have a beautiful cottage in windsor where they could have based themselves. it’s just a stone’s throw away from where the queen and prince philip are in self-isolation.” that’s true, obviously, but would hunkering down any closer really change anything? we mean, if you’re stuck inside anyway?? you certainly wouldn’t want to get anywhere close to the elder members of the firm. but there supposedly was hope they would step up: “prince charles and prince andrew are both out of action too for very different reasons. this was an opportunity for them to put country before their own interests. california isn’t going anywhere.” “very different reasons” indeed. do you think harry and meghan could have done anything for the uk right now if they weren’t focused on their futures? [image via wenn/instar/avalon.] related posts royals respond very differently to prince charles getting coronavirus! dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton meghan markle & prince harry secretly moved to los angeles amid coronavirus pandemic?! whut?! meghan markle believes prince william & prince harry ‘will patch things up eventually’ click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 2:59pm pdt share this categories anglophilia controversy meghan markle prince harry royals royce view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy