home rumors fixed exclusive hot videos harvey weinstein might never see prison while being moved to rikers island, where harvey was expected to be housed until his march 11 sentencing, he was rerouted to the hospital while expe... 0rumors fixed153february 26, 2020 family dispute with prince harry and meghan markle the outcast couple finally issued their first statement since the decision restricting the couple's ability to use the royal's brand. in a st... 0rumors fixed160february 26, 2020 allison morris calls the los angeles lakers the los angeles n word? ok, so kobe just died and the internet is going crazy, even more over allison morris calling the la lakers the la n word. here's a clip from ... 0rumors fixed569january 26, 2020 koby bryant killed in helicopter crash legendary nba player kobe bryant has died in a horrible helicopter crash, a report said sunday monring. at age 41, bryant was among at least ... 0rumors fixed635january 26, 2020 r. kelly couldn’t have done what he did? all said and done it looks like r. kelly likely raped and tortured many young girls, but sources suggest that r. kelly might have been gay and coverin... 0still a rumor466january 21, 2019 stranger things stars dating? "stranger things" stars charlie heaton and natalia dyer play jonathan byers and nancy wheeler, and their friendship seem complicated onscreen as it's ... 0still a rumor536march 27, 2017 report: liam hemsworth dumping miley cyrus is liam hemsworth dumping miley cyrus because he disagrees with the actress' career choices? supposed sources tell ok! that hemsworth is on the ver... 0slideshow, still a rumor514october 4, 2016 britney spears drunk, falling off the wagon…again?! “oops, is she about to fall off the wagon again! britney spears ‘is drinking booze again,’ insider claims,” blares a headline on radaronline. the w... 0slideshow, still a rumor532october 4, 2016 are calvin harris and taylor swift back together?! despite tabloid rumors, taylor swift and calvin harris are not dating again, nor are they “rekindling” their relationship. ”taylor swift rekindles ... 0fixed, rumors fixed511october 3, 2016 ben affleck moving back in with jennifer garner rumor has it that ben affleck is moving back into the los angeles home he shared with jennifer garner. sources tell star, that amid rumor of a “rec... 0slideshow, still a rumor464october 3, 2016 1 2 3 … 2,263 next » popular leave lindsay lohan’s louboutins alone! lindsay lohan is facing a barrage of criticism after her appearance in court yesterday - but this time it's her style that's under attack. pictures... exclusive: mj bodyguard – i don’t want to take blanket away from katherine jackson ever since michael jackson's former bodyguard matt fiddes announced he might be the biological father of prince michael jackson ii (aka blanket), sp... mike epps daughter: i wanted to expose my father bria epps, daughter of hangover actor mike epps, is speaking out after an audio recording of her father calling her a "lil' b*tch" was leaked online... nick jonas nipples: real or fake? the viral photo that had everyone talking about nick jonas nipples is back and ready to attack! an image showing nick jonas nipples has made its wa... did kobe bryant’s wife vanessa get plastic surgery? rumors that vanessa bryant may have had some work done on her face are true, according to one plastic surgeon. images of kobe bryant's wife surfaced t... home rumors fixed exclusive hot videos rumorfix - the anti tabloid the anti tabloid: the most reliable online source for celebrity gossip where we verify or debunk rumors about your favorite stars. © 2020 rumorfix - the anti tabloid scroll