home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog running the ravenel bridge – arthur ravenel jr. bridge in charleston, sc october 16, 2014 by erin weiss 3 comments if you've ever been to charleston, sc, you have probably seen the arthur ravenel jr. bridge (also known as the cooper river bridge). it's a cable bridge connecting charleston to mount pleasant, sc. it's seriously beautiful and it's been my goal to run it since i saw it. well....today was the day that i ran it for the first time (or at least tried my best haha) i wasn't … [read more...] ditka dash 5k race review december 2, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend i ran the ditka dash 5k! i would have to say this was one of my all time favorite 5k races i've ever run in. even though it was cold, it beats out a lot of the other races i've done. as we all know, mike ditka is a chicago legend. he's da coach and has a killer mustache. this race also helped the movember charities raise money for prostate … [read more...] color me rad 2013 september 17, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment this past weekend i ran in the color me rad 5k in indianapolis. we signed up to run at 9:40am which was nice as it wasn't too early. we checked in and got our free tshirt and sunglasses. i have to say...color me rad officially has the highest quality shirts. i love my shirt from 2012 and this one was just as cute!! the material they use isn't a typical cotton..it's high … [read more...] new clutch sneakers june 25, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment there's nothing better than coming home from work to a big box waiting for you outside your house, right?! especially when you see it's from puma and they want you to try out their latest kicks! they are the bioweb elite high-rise shoes. i got them in the curacao/jasmine color. super cute! gosh i'm such a workout shoe fanatic. i love new "sneakers" as i call … [read more...] indiana dunes workout june 2, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment how in the world is the weekend already over?! it flew by but that's probably because i was so busy. friday night i hit up the gym around 9pm for a late night back, shoulder, biceps & triceps workout. it's nice being in the gym that late on a friday night because it was empty. the lifetime i go to on the weekends is always extremely busy so it was a nice change of pace … [read more...] color me rad 5k recap september 10, 2012 by erin weiss 8 comments this past weekend i was able to participate in indianapolis' color me rad 5k! i had never done this race before but it was very similar to the color run 5k that i did a few weekends ago. it was fun!!!!! my boyfriend ran with me this time. this was our third race together. while we were running, we realized that the only other races he has done are two warrior dash's. when i … [read more...] warrior dash 2012 recap august 13, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments it was my second year participating in the warrior dash. i remember now why i thought it was so hard last year..because it is hard! i thought i'd have no problem with it this year because i consider myself to be in pretty decent shape, but i guess not because it was tough! the obstacles were the easy part to me. it was all the running up hills in mud and keeping up a fast … [read more...] melissa’s fitness journey may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i'm excited to share a guest post with you today!!! melissa and i have been messaging a bit back and forth and i asked her if she wanted to share her fitness journey with us. she kindly accepted. i'm sure there are so many of you that can relate to her being a mother of two and trying to balance a busy life with staying healthy. thanks for sharing melissa!! hi! my name … [read more...] race for the cure indianapolis 2012 recap april 23, 2012 by erin weiss 2 comments i decided last minute to run in the race for the cure in indianapolis this past weekend. i'm so glad i made this last minute decision. i've done this race one other time in the past and it's so unbelievably amazing to see how many people come out for this great cause. there were around 30,000 people participating this year!!! i saw so many breast cancer survivors who were … [read more...] track workout march 15, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment i decided to take my cardio outside for the first time this season!! i ran around my neighborhood a lot last summer, so i wanted a change of scenery. i decided to go to a local high school track and let me tell ya...it was a success!!! here's a breakdown of what i did while i was there. 10 minutes of sprints 20 min jogging 10 min running the bleachers total time: … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in