subscribe by email rss life in leggings a healthy lifestyle blog home about contact family work out with me faqs press disclaimer recipes breakfast lunch snacks dinner & entrees desserts & sweets soups & stews drinks & smoothies vegetarian fitness cardio workouts circuit workouts nasm & study guides running & race recaps workout playlists weekly workouts sponsor reviews favorites friday favorites beauty health fitness blogging tutorials & videos dance highlights & faqs coffee talks travel orlando & florida detroit & michigan wedding running & strength outdoor workout march 23, 2020 by heather leave a comment hi there! are you hanging in there, friends? it’s no secret that things have progressed from crazy to crazier in the matter of a week. new york city has been deemed the epicenter of the us crisis for the coronavirus outbreak with about half of the over 32,000 confirmed infections in new york. so that’s wild. it’s also worth mentioning that other places (like the areas our families live in that are freaking out from afar) have access to a drastically smaller percentage of tests. that, paired with the fact that nyc is the most populated city in the us, is – of course – going to result in an absurd amount of cases. rest assured, scott and i are in complete hunker-down mode over here and are doing okay. we debated on going home to florida to be with family, but it’s just too hard with pets. we don’t want to split up for someone to stay with them with an unforeseen end date in sight, and if the airlines shut down all together … then what? it just doesn’t seem logical at this point. but, we’re taking everything one day and week at a time! now that all of that nonsense is acknowledged and out of the way, let’s move on to brighter things in store for today like fitness motivation. are you moving for thirty minutes every day? even if it’s for a walk around your neighborhood to get some fresh air, i can’t recommend doing this enough for your physical and mental health. if you’re looking for some motivation to get you going, i’ve got you! today we are covering a running or walking and strength workout to get you started, and i’m also offering a free week of new at-home workouts, tips, and community chats through my healthy lifestyle bootcamp! you can request an invite here. the more the merrier! now, onto today’s workout for all of you here on the blog. i love throwing extra moves into my running workouts because it breaks up the monotony of doing the same thing mile after mile. you can use a bench on your route for the push-ups and dips, or even grab a mat to circle back to. just make sure to wash your hands and wipe or wash everything you bring home with you. (by the way, this workout was photographed over a week ago — before social distancing was enforced. the park is less busy these days, which enables me to run safely and cautiously during this time.) here we go! exercise breakdown you decide the intensity by choosing your own pace, anywhere from a brisk walk to a run or sprint. pick how many rounds you complete with each round totaling a mile. i finished this workout a few days ago with a total of three rounds, equaling three miles and 60 reps of each exercise in about 35 minutes. standing elbow-to-knees start standing with your feet under your hips, slightly wider than your shoulders and your hands behind your head with your elbows wide. keeping your core tight and abs toward your spine, lift your right knee up as you twist your left elbow to the right and towards your knee. lower your right leg back to the starting positing to complete one rep. alternate sides and bring your left knee up toward your right elbow. that is one rep on the left. complete a total of 10 reps, or work up to doing 10 on each side. push-ups (incline, regular, or decline) find a bench or similar surface and position your hands slightly wider than your shoulders. raise up on your toes, and get into a position similar to a high plank. (keep your body in a straight line from your head to toe without dropping your middle or arching your back.) before you begin the push-up, contract your abs and keep your core engaged. think of pulling your belly button towards your spine, then lower and lift. repeat for 20 reps. you can choose to complete the push-ups on the grass, on a mat you bring outdoors, or even advance the move to do a decline push-up for more of a challenge! bench dips start by placing your hands on a bench with your arms semi-flexed and elbows as close to your body as possible. extend your legs out in front of you. start with bent legs, and you can always progress to straight legs for more resistance. lower yourself in a slow and controlled movement, until your elbows hit a 90 degree angle. use your triceps to extend back to your starting position. this is one rep. triceps dips can be tricky! focus on keeping your elbows in tight throughout the entire exercise (opposed to letting them open out), and straightening your elbows all the way to get back to the starting position. if you are more of a beginner, you may want to start smaller with 6 or 10 reps. progress and add reps as you build your strength! sumo squats stand with your legs wider than a normal squat with your toes turned out. place your hands behind your head or in a fist like position in front of your chest. push your hips back while lowering your body until your thighs are almost parallel to the floor. stick that backside out! focus on tightening your abs, booty, and thighs, and push back up through your heels to your standing position. this is one rep. repeat for 20 reps. i hope this workout helps you get some fresh air this week! try to keep your goals somewhere close to you during the madness, and let me know if you give it a try. stay safe everyone! disclaimer: although i am a certified personal trainer, i am not necessarily your personal trainer. the workouts i post are what work best for me and might not be the right type of exercises for you. i always recommend consulting a doctor or health professional before making changes to your diet and/or fitness routines. related posts: at-home (do anywhere) bodyweight workout outdoor total body strength workout indoor/outdoor at-home strength circuit 20 minute at-home strength & power workout prenatal dumbbell (arms & core) strength workout about heather heather is a blogger, studio manager, nasm-certified personal trainer, and new mom living in new york city. life in leggings is a personal healthy lifestyle blog that follows her adventures in the city and helps others reach their goals by sharing quick and healthy meals, challenging workouts, and everyday fitness tips. thanks so much for stopping by! « little things that have made me smile this week friday favorites: highs and lows from the week » leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment notify me of followup comments via e-mail name * email * website current ye@r * leave this field empty welcome follow facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter follow search stay in the loop with newsletter updates and exclusive promotions! email address: categories categories select category anniversaries appetizers aspen & cali auditions baby bachelorette party baking barre beauty beautycounter bible quotes blogging blue diamond books breakfast bridal party bridal shower broadway bucket list budget cardio casseroles causes celebrations charities chicken circuit training classes classpass coffee talk coffee talks & thoughts concerts conferences countdowns cpt culture dance day in the life decor desserts detroit dining in michigan dinner diy entertainment faith fall family faqs fashion fashion favorites fitness fitness fashion food friday favorites gifts giveaways grocery hauls group fitness guest posts hair hair & beauty tips half marathon training halloween health healthy eating holiday gift guides holidays home honeymoon interviews lean beef lil baby lil giveaway week lil workout wednesdays looking back lunch makeup mimm motivation moving nails nasm new jersey new york new york city news no bake recipes on-the-go organization orlando pastas photo dump pregnancy press projects q&a races random thoughts and things recipe recaps recipes reviews roadie round-ups running salads scott side dishes skin smoothies snacks soups sponsored sports spring stitch fix summer surveys thanksgiving things i’ve learned in my 30s thinking out loud thought of the day training travel turkey tutorials uncategorized vegan vegetarian vendors videos wedding wedding hints wedding recaps weddings weekend in photos weekly workouts wiaw winter words of wisdom workout roundups workouts yoga twitter tweets by @lifenleggings pinterest copyright © 2020 · foodie child theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in copyright © life in leggings 2020 | designed by murnan creative