× rush limbaugh for a better experience, download and use our app! download now the rush limbaugh show main menu home america’s anchorman special notes for rush 24/7 member sign up audio/video military support store need help? more limbaugh letter stations rush in a hurry transcripts podcasts rush iphone app rush android app adventures of rush revere rush’s facebook page museum rss close search for: close close listen watch 2019 featured story 072919 dk america’s anchorman’s take on where we are as a country mar 27, 2020 rush: we’re the united states of america, and we have been through things like this throughout our history, and we have triumphed over all of them. read more an update on my health and treatment mar 27, 2020 rush: i wanted to update you on my health. and the first thing to tell you is i'm fine. i'm sitting here at my official home library desk, and i am fine. read more guest host ken matthews mar 27, 2020 check out these stories from the ken matthews stack of stuff. read more dems think they’re beating trump, but nobody wants any of this mar 13, 2020 rush: nobody wants to be sequestered. nobody wants to be sick. nobody wants to not be able to go to restaurants. nobody wants this to go on! read more it’s hard for a nonconformist to watch this mar 13, 2020 rush: the news media's absolutely loving it. the people that publish these stories love writing these headlines. read more good question: what’s my greatest accomplishment? mar 13, 2020 rush: my greatest accomplishment. oh, man. i don't think like that. read more 65-year-old dittohead recovers from the dreaded coronavirus mar 13, 2020 rush: they had a picture of her on the cruise that she showed, and she's wearing a stand up for betsy ross t-shirt. read more trump’s actions will lead to a huge economic rebound mar 12, 2020 rush: after the aftershocks of this are felt, i wouldn't be surprised if trump responds with economic stimulus like you can't believe. read more great photos of the vice president’s studio visit mar 12, 2020 rush: i just got some photographs in from the office of the vice president. read more chicom dictator does pr in wuhan mar 10, 2020 rush: did you see that the chicom head honcho xi jinping put on his little blue mask and went to wuhan? read more caller on “the rich” fires up your host mar 6, 2020 rush: i defend anybody who i think is unfairly assaulted and attacked and targeted. and the rich do not defend themselves because it's so unseemly. read more president trump gave up his great life to save the country mar 6, 2020 rush: even if politicians think that's what they're doing, they don't put it in those terms. read more clinton says he had lewinsky affair to relieve anxiety mar 6, 2020 rush: clinton was obviously into the instantaneous relief of the symptoms, numerous times. read more donald trump is now the youngest man running for president in 2020 mar 2, 2020 rush: we are set up for a contest here between old and older on the democrat side, crazy bernie and joe biden. read more american media today: democrat activists talking to each other feb 11, 2020 rush: cnn had an interview going on. i hope i'm able to relate this to you 'cause many of you are gonna think, “what's the point of this?” and this is why i am here. read more rush’s famous quotes "i've made it very clear that the only place i really want to be during all of this -- aside from at the side of my lovely wife, kathryn -- is in the radio studio." "i started getting little emails from people. you read between the lines and they're saying, 'what the hell is going on? where are you?' so, i thought it'd be wise and prudent to come in and share some details with you." "the chemo drugs are working. they're working so well the doctors want me to continue doing this and put up with the leg pain." "we're the united states of america, and we have been through things like this throughout our history, and we have triumphed over all of them." "everybody who was assigned to vietnam went. but why were we there? what was the point? what was the objective served? and who sent us there? who sent us there was a bunch of washington experts who, in that instance, may have thought they were doing what they should have done, but they were not. it was a giant mistake." "there's a u.k. epidemiologist who predicted 500,000 deaths in the u.k. from coronavirus; he's had to correct himself 'cause his models were wrong. just like the climate change models are wrong, this guy admits that his models are wrong, and now we may not have more than 20,000 deaths in the u.k. the same thing is gonna be the case in the united states." "even if it takes $2 trillion infusions, $3 trillion infusions to bring this country back, then so be it. we can do the postmortem when this is all done and taken care of." "i found a way past the call screener on this program, folks, because i, as the architect of this whole enterprise, would know how to do that." "everybody's going through difficult times; i don't mean to focus on mine. i mean to say, 'i'm among you.' i mean to say that we are all in this together. we are all facing something." "i cannot tell you how great it is to be back here, even if it is just for a half hour or so here on the phone today." "my treatment requires travel to different places. and no matter where we've been this country is shut down. it's just incredible. and i'll tell you, folks, it has been scary to me, it has been frightening to me to see how easy it has been to do this." "i've never had any doubt we're gonna come out of it. i've never had any doubt we're gonna come out of it stronger and we're gonna come out of it healthy. and i think it's imperative that we have somebody like donald trump, who is outside the establishment expert class, who has a history of solving problems, to actually lead the country through this." "we've lost that in recent years because of the partisan divide and because one of the parties in this country does not want america to be that anymore. that is what we will triumph over. that is why it's so important to have somebody like donald trump in the white house who can see an end to this, who doesn't want to sit here and have to accept this as the new norm." "the bigger question that i have, which we'll address in much greater detail next week, is what kind of country are we going to have when this is over? because it isn't gonna be the same country." ____________ ____________       pin it on pinterest rushlimbaugh.com - © 2020 premiere networks. all rights reserved. contact | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information | contest rules | rush 24/7 terms & conditions | adchoices show