/ david pescovitz / 8:24 am fri mar 27, 2020 russian gearheads make the quietest car exhaust using 9 mufflers follow us twitter / facebook / rss the russian gearheads of garage 54 outfitted a car with nine mufflers to almost entirely dampen the exhaust system. while you may not hear this max max mobile coming, it's still hard to miss. share / tweet / 7 comments cars / makers / vehicles get the boing boing newsletter here's an updated list of initiatives to 3d-print masks and face shields for coronavirus health care workers forbes senior contributor, tj mccue, has been keeping an updated list of various corporate and maker/makerspace initiatives to 3d print filter masks and face shields for healthcare workers. read the rest vacuum and hand dryer maker dyson designed a new ventilator for covid-19 patients british inventor james dyson announced that his company has spent the last week designing a new ventilator for covid-19 patients and will ship 10,000 of them early next month to support the uk’s national health service. he’s also donating 5,000 more of them to international initiatives. from cnn: dyson said the company had designed and […] read the rest family maker camp 2020 is starting make is kicking off family maker camp this week, and the timing couldn’t be better for this free, at-home guided week of fun activities that families can enjoy together. dale dougherty, founder of make, says: family maker camp encourages making and hands-on learning at home. making is fun and engaging for kids as well as […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support