menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies rylie borden "we are the granddaughters of the witches you weren't able to burn" latest posts a few things i wish i could tell you now it’s still heartbreaking to me, how much love we let go to waste. by rylie borden, 4 feb 2020 no, you didn’t make me a better person when you broke my heart i’ve tried finding myself again. i tried turning this heartache into a journey of self-discovery that i could someday tell my daughter about when her first love rips her heart from her chest. but i couldn’t. by rylie borden, 13 jan 2020 i will leave you behind in 2019 i’m weeding out every last bit of you. my garden will no longer be contaminated by your abuse, your lies, your harsh words. by rylie borden, 26 dec 2019 8 non-negotiable things you need to know about the history of pride month as incredible as it is that we’re finally celebrating our lgbt community with an entire month, it’s unacceptable that we’re forgetting where it began. by rylie borden, 8 jun 2019 this is your reminder to let your experiences teach you flowers don’t just start out in full bloom; they take the rain and the sun and turn them into something beautiful. by rylie borden, 4 jun 2019 today i opened my window even when it’s small, you’re a small step farther than you were earlier. by rylie borden, 4 jun 2019 i will never give myself away again i never thought i’d thank you for breaking my heart, for destroying my soul. by rylie borden, 29 may 2019 if right now isn’t for us, i pray we meet again i was naïve to fall in love with you so quickly, so unconditionally. by rylie borden, 27 may 2019 if you loved me, you would’ve fought for me it makes me wonder, reliving those moments, did you ever mean any of it? by rylie borden, 26 may 2019 have mercy on my heart, please leave me alone please don’t text me. because if you do i’ll text you back. if you do, i’ll come over, with no hesitation. by rylie borden, 17 may 2019 1 2 next » on the web instagram facebook twitter contact rylie name email subject message send get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.