home about approach portfolio network mondialité news contact about approach portfolio network mondialité contact representing the world’s finest real estate about us the evolving world of luxury living on the surface our story is deceptively simple, but exactly how we give it life is highly sophisticated. collaborating with our extraordinary developer clientele, we create desire and demand for luxury real estate in the great financial, social, cultural and recreational capitals of the world. like the world class architects and designers they select, this new wave of developers is dedicated to crafting the most geometrically inspiring and emotionally moving structures imaginable. our role is to market those residences to discerning buyers and to help guide developer, architect and buyer alike in an evolving world of luxury living. parcel f view fifteen fifteen view first light view the butterfly view see more projects mondialité mondialité is our online gateway to a global dialogue in architecture, design, real estate innovation and the philosophy of luxury living. explore mondialité view exhibits strategize your next project schedule a private consultation inquire subscribe to our newsletter subscribe to our newsletter to receive updates about exclusive experiences, mondialite events, upcoming projects and more, please enter your details below. please click here to confirm communications consent to receive updates from s&p real estate corp. by confirming “yes”, you consent to s&p real estate corp. and its respective current and future subsidiaries and affiliates contacting you regarding current and future products, services, newsletters, events, announcements, promotions, incentives, and other publications. you may withdraw your consent at any time by emailing us at: inquiry@sprec.com. to review our privacy policy, visit our privacy policy web page here. thank you for signing up for updates news press world housing the world's finest real estate sitemap privacy terms #106, 1008 beach avenue, vancouver bc, v6e 1t7 ©2020 s&p real estate corp. all rights reserved.