barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up good sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest levity tomkinson writer shares share tweet pin villalobos rescue center (vrc) in new orleans, louisiana – the rescue behind the hit television show pit bulls & parolees – held its last public tour on june 11, 2016. the rescue itself, along with its retail shop and bar, are still very much in operation. on june 8th, a visitor confronted founder tia torres and joe, a parolee, over a dog that was in the care of vrc that she claimed was hers. when asked when this woman’s dog went missing, she responded about two years ago. at that point, tia and joe knew that the dog in question, beatrice, wasn’t this woman’s as beatrice is approximately eight–months old. tia tried to explain this to the woman but that’s when the trouble began. sharing on vrc’s facebook page, tia wrote: the more i kept trying to explain this, the more combative she became. so joe (our parolee), beatrice (the dog) and myself walked away to avoid any confrontation. the woman then yelled out, ‘i’m going to ‘f’n’ (she said the entire word) kill this b*****!’ i kept walking until …….i heard my other employees start screaming my name. tia’s employees’ cause for concern was very real as this woman had gotten in her minivan and was driving directly towards tia, who is currently on crutches (unrelated to the incident in question). speaking to wdsu in an interview, tia relayed the incident and the quick thinking of her staff. she went around behind me and then came around behind me and i just kept backing up backwards to get away from her. all my employees started coming out and chasing her and yelling at her, trying to look for things to throw at her, taking pictures and it was enough to scare her off. according to the interview, the woman was only about 20 feet away from tia when one of her staff threw a coffee on the windshield of the minivan, causing her to swerve. tia relays the incident more in-depth on vrc’s facebook page, and it’s even more frightening than the news interview. after one of tia’s employees threw the coffee, the woman “quickly re-gained control of her vehicle and caught up to [tia] and began to circle [her] as [she] tried to get out of the way.” ultimately, it was tia’s staff taking photos of the woman’s vehicle that saved tia’s life. due to this incident, vrc made the decision to no longer give public tours. according to tia: yes i know…..this is insane. but more bothersome is that it has pushed past [the] simply being ‘crazy’ part [and] has now moved into being flat out dangerous for my family, my workers and the dogs. and because of all of these reasons, we will be halting all public tours to the facility. information and photos from this incident, including the woman’s license plate, have been shared with the new orleans police department. tia has said that she has previously had people call vrc and threaten her because they think vrc has their dog but has never had a physical and potentially dangerous confrontation like this one. as far as vrc possibly having a lost dog, tia always has the same message. i hope we do have your dog because we want our dogs to go back to their owners. we don’t want to keep your dog! vrc can be followed on facebook. to help support vrc’s mission of rescue and rehabilitation, you may donate here. featured image via wdsu & villalobos rescue center/facebook for more, check out these articles! an animal scientist explains how we can help dogs who are stuck in shelters longer than others how america’s dog became public enemy #1 – and why they’re making such a comeback study: these are the 10 most common dog breeds found in shelters finally, there’s a list of rentals across the country where your pit bull is welcome abandoned pit bull mom and her puppies saved by rescuers comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up levity tomkinson writer partially deaf dog barks so loud because she's hoping a forever human will hear her abused pup and nfl linebacker team up to deliver a powerful message about dogfighting op-ed: bsl isn't just bad for pit bulls & pit bull owners - it's bad for everyone 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go