menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies sagittarius sagittarius and this is why i love you, sagittarius kelly peacock this is why your best friend should absolutely be a sagittarius alexandria brown don’t fall in love with a sagittarius kirsten corley what you should know about the sagittarius: the optimistic, amorous truth-seeker of the zodiac kristin michelle elizabeth 11 things you need to know before you date a sagittarius chrissy stockton everything you need to know about the sagittarius in your life january nelson 7 terribly honest truths about loving a sagittarius kelsey marshall latest sagittarius articles these are the 5 zodiac signs who are perfect for a summer fling lacey ramburger “ a sagittarius is playful, hilarious, and never likes to take things too seriously. what the full moon in sagittarius means for you based on your zodiac sign a.t. nunez “ gemini — with the full moon in opposition to your sign you will experience how easy it is to trust people and want to create solid partnerships. the good things about a sagittarius-virgo pair kelly peacock “ imagine a pair like this. imagine how much love is given and received. imagine the differences, the similarities, the way they work together. if you know a sagittarius or a virgo, you know how different they really are. and this is why i love you, sagittarius kelly peacock “ you never stop reaching for someone to be close to you and to love you. and this is why i love you, sagittarius. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. this is why your best friend should absolutely be a sagittarius alexandria brown “ as a best friend, a sagittarius is going to support all your bad decisions and then laugh at them with you when you fall on your face. don’t fall in love with a sagittarius kirsten corley “ you’ll look at yourself in the mirror and just wonder what you ever did right to deserve them. but you’ll count your blessings that someone like them exists. what you should know about the sagittarius: the optimistic, amorous truth-seeker of the zodiac kristin michelle elizabeth “ this free spirit is non-traditional and cannot stand domesticity or being put through an emotional wringer. they play by their own rulebook. 11 things you need to know before you date a sagittarius chrissy stockton “ if you can make a sagittarius laugh, you can make a sagittarius fall in love. how you’ll do everything based on your zodiac sign chrissy stockton “ what makes some people belt out ‘i love you!’ the minute the feeling strikes them, and others stay mum while they calculate whether it’s worth the risk of opening up? more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.