english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get started free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in documents build a library of helpful sales content for your entire team, share documents right from your gmail or outlook inbox, and see which content closes deals. start sharing and tracking documents now get up and running in seconds, and build a unified sales library for your whole team. get started free works with gmail, g suite and outlook or office 365 for windows a single library for all your sales documents create a unified library, accessible to your whole team. stop wasting valuable time tracking down important sales documents. build a single, shared library of up-to-date sales content for your entire team. choose documents to include in your emails right from a drop-down menu in your gmail or outlook inbox, and never worry about whether you have the latest version. know the second a prospect opens a document. be on the alert as soon as prospects engage with the content you send. when a lead clicks an email link to open your document, or shares it with a colleague, we’ll notify you instantly on your desktop. when you can see that prospects are interacting with your content, you can follow up in a relevant and timely way. identify the documents that close deals. get aggregate data about how your sales content is helping to move your sales process forward. find out how often your team is using different pieces of content, and how your prospects are engaging with it. by knowing which content is influencing closed deals, you can surface the best-performing documents and make your entire sales team more effective. connect with the apps your team already uses hubspot sales works seamlessly with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows. choose sales documents to include in your emails right from a drop-down menu in your gmail or outlook inbox, and all your important sales documents are at your fingertips. the all-in-one sales software your team will actually use email sequences put prospecting on autopilot to keep them from slipping through the cracks and free up more time to close warm leads. email templates turn your most effective and repetitive sales emails into templates you can access inside your inbox and share with your team. email tracking know the second a lead opens an email, clicks a link, or downloads an attachment, and surface the most relevant notifications to the top of your activity feed. then send a perfectly timed follow-up. email scheduling schedule emails to go out at a specified date and time, or use machine learning to deliver emails to prospects when they’re most likely to engage. documents optimize your documents and personalize your pitch by seeing who views each document and which pages they spend time on. meetings share a link that gives leads the power to choose a time that works for everyone. works with google calendar, office 365, and hubspot crm. live chat connect directly with prospects when they’re actively engaging with your website. route chat conversations to the right salesperson to build better relationships and close more deals. calling queue up a list of sales calls, make them from inside your browser, log calls to your crm automatically, and record calls with a single click. sales automation use workflows to automate manual, time-consuming tasks: rotate leads, create deals and tasks, and more. reporting out-of-the-box and customizable reports and dashboards allow you to share high-level business metrics with executives, or dig into more granular metrics for your sales team. predictive lead scoring prioritize your outreach based on a prospect’s likelihood to become a customer so you don’t waste time trying to qualify poor-fit leads. salesforce integration bi-directional sync with salesforce means a record of every email, meeting, call, and more is at your fingertips. start using hubspot's sales software today reach more leads, book more meetings, and close more deals with less work. get started free works with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy