home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources home about episodes featured design engineering sales product founders growth community organizer customer success press center 5-step challenge recommended resources category: sales read more featured / sales #90: daniel barragan – an enterprise account executive’s playbook to landing a job by timur meyster on june 14, 2018 daniel barragan was the first sales rep at zoom that was able to rise all the way up to the top of the ranks on the enterprise team. he helped the company grow to over… read more featured / sales #79: ghazal asif – vp of worldwide channels sales at app dynamics by timur meyster on march 22, 2018 a scottish pakistani, ghazal asif is currently living in san francisco. she has been on the uk version of the apprentice and she has worked at startups, large and small, such as meraki (now acquired… read more featured / sales #78: ana díaz-hernández – head of sales for interviewing.io & a leader for the latinx tech community by timur meyster on march 5, 2018 ana díaz-hernández is the head of sales at interviewing.io, a platform for engineers that set technical interviews and land jobs at top tech companies. sacramento-born, ana talks about how she leveraged online communities to get… read more featured / sales #75: heather swan – journey from retail to an enterprise account executive at zoom by timur meyster on february 2, 2018 a san jose-native, heather swan is the chief happiness officer at zoom, a video conferencing tool that works on any device. she started as the #15 sales rep and now zoom has grown to support… read more featured / sales #74: ian harriman – from a sales development rep to an account executive at checkr by timur meyster on january 12, 2018 ***community announcement: always hired, which is a sales bootcamp, is giving away a sales resume kit. click here to join our fb bot and we’ll send you the links along with other sales videos*** southern… read more featured / sales #70: dan burrill – director of inside sales at twillio by timur meyster on november 9, 2017 dan burrill is not just the inside sales boss at twilio but he’s also a seasoned executive having spent time with other amazing companies including box and honeywell. a man who’s big on commitment and… read more featured / sales #62: mandy cole – vp of sales of startups such as living social, zenefits and stella & dot by timur meyster on august 31, 2017 born in atlanta, mandy cole is the founder of the cole method, a consulting firm that helps startups that have reached $1 million revenue to start learning how to go from putting balls in the… read more founders / sales #61: gabe moncayo – founder of always hired who helps people get into sales by timur meyster on august 20, 2017 gabe moncayo is the ceo and founder of alwayshired, a three-week teaching program focused on training sales development representatives. a bay area-native, gabe grew up in a family with roots to south american. he never… read more featured / sales #53: ysiad ferreiras – how a kid from the bronx became the vp of sales at hustle by timur meyster on may 30, 2017 with dominican roots, ysiad ferreiras grew up in the bronx where fear was not unusual thing and where hard life would be an understatement. he has made some bad decisions in his early life but… next subscribe be the first to get the latest breaking into startups podcast updates, right to your inbox. we’ll never spam you. our guests came from: about us the breaking into startups podcast is a platform where we feature inspiring stories of people who broke into tech from non-traditional backgrounds.our mission is to demonstrate that it is possible to break into tech from any background by featuring inspiring stories of people who turned their perceived disadvantages into advantages. facebook twitter instagram © 2020 breaking into startups. privacy policy top join 1,055 other subscribers! email subscribe now we respect your privacy. join our newsletter today! stay updated with all the latest episodes, upcoming events & much more. hack reactor prep prepare for any coding bootcam (free) learn more no thanks!