english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get free crm home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in pipeline management never let a lucrative deal slip through the cracks again. add deals with a single click, assign tasks, and track progress in your dashboards. start taking control of your pipeline today for free get up and running in seconds to start focusing on the deals that help you hit your quota. get free crm focus on the right deals and hit your quota. create new deals in no time. create new deals at breakneck speed. when you add new deals from a contact or company record, hubspot crm saves you time by populating most of the deal’s record automatically with the most up-to-date information. you’ll stop wasting time on manual data entry so you can send more emails, make more phone calls, and hit your quota. customize your pipeline to match your sales process. whether you have an established sales process or you’re starting from scratch, hubspot crm makes it easy to create your ideal process. add, edit, and delete deal stages and properties without help from it, and push deals forward by assigning tasks to your team. then drag and drop deals between stages when they’re successful. when you take control of your pipeline, you can focus on the deals that matter. track progress and diagnose the health of your pipeline. get total visibility into individual and team performance. use your sales dashboard to check on progress toward sales quotas, monthly trends in key sales activities, and the overall value and health of your pipeline. by identifying where in your pipeline potential revenue is piling up, you can rally your team around the right deals. the free crm that goes far beyond contact management contact & lead management add company and contact records, log sales activities automatically, and easily keep records up to date. see every interaction you've had with contacts, and use this data to build campaigns that close more deals. pipeline management add deals to your crm with a single click, assign tasks to push deals forward, and track progress in your dashboards. contact & company insights get insights your sales team will actually use by automatically pulling company details from our database of over 20 million businesses. email tracking know the second a lead opens an email, clicks a link, or downloads an attachment — then send a perfectly timed follow-up. email templates & documents turn your most effective and repetitive sales emails into templates, and build a library of documents that you can access inside your inbox and share with your entire team. gmail & outlook integration out-of-the-box integration with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows. access email templates, contact and company info, and more right inside your inbox. facebook & instagram lead ads create lead ads for facebook or instagram that automatically capture contact information and sync with your hubspot account. forms build mobile-optimized forms, pop-ups, banners, and slide-ins to convert visitors into leads, and add them to any web page. contact activity see detailed interactions between a contact and your website in a single place, including page views, form submissions, sales activity, and more. conversations inbox a universal inbox that gives your sales, marketing, and customer service teams one place to view, manage, and reply to all conversations from live chat, bots, or team email aliases. meeting scheduling create a scheduling link that you can share with prospects, giving them the power to book time on your sales team’s calendar. live chat & bots connect with website visitors in real time to convert new leads, close more deals, and provide better support to your customers. use bots to automate and scale your live chat conversations. close more deals with less work hubspot crm makes it easy to organize, track, and grow your sales pipeline. get free crm it's free forever for your entire team, with unlimited data and up to 1,000,000 contacts. increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy