menu first round review magazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! search close search close homemagazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! twitterfacebooklinkedin sales share with your team today sales step up your sales coaching game — dig into the numbers to help your reps level up sales managers have an unprecedented opportunity to lean into the numbers and level up as coaches — but in karen rhorer's experience, most are leaving this potential untapped. the startup sales veteran shows how founders and managers can incorporate data into 1:1s, performance conversations and goal-setting to make sales teams stronger.keep reading sales mastering the art of the outcome: how guru turned customer success into a company cornerstone at guru, customer success is at the center of every aspect of company-building, from product design to sales strategy. co-founder and ceo rick nucci shows how a relentless dedication to outcomes gives startups a competitive edge.keep reading sales how backcountry’s support reps go the extra mile — and get invited to their customers’ weddings this online outdoor gear and clothing company blends service and sales to craft a customer experiences that wows. vp of sales and customer service chris purkey walks us through how startups can learn from backcountry's approach to beat the scale of more established competitors with authentic, white glove customer service.keep reading sales growth at all costs is perilous — this is how to scale sales sustainably many founders feel the pressure to spin up sales quickly to hit growth targets, but seasoned sales leader karen rhorer knows that this unsustainable strategy can lead to painful layoffs down the road. here, she shares the four levers and key calculations startups need to understand in order to scale sales hiring the right way.keep reading sales pricing lessons from working with 30+ seed and series a b2b startups as ceo of entrepid partners and first round's sales expert in residence, gaffney works directly with founders and early sales teams to establish go-to-market strategies and growth plans. here he shares his pricing principles and experiments so early-stage teams can generate foundational revenue. keep reading sales our 6 must reads on pricing a product too often pricing comes at price. that's why we assembled some of most insightful advice on pricing products from the review archives, so you've got what you need in one place. dive in! keep reading sales start up on the right foot — build a customer advisory board sales leader peter kazanjy on creating a group that will ensure you're building a product your customers want, need and will buy.keep reading sales this sales plan moves the needle on every success metric derek draper builds high-performance sales teams. his secret: a documented, bulletproof plan broken into stages and actions.keep reading sales the most surefire way i’ve found to win enterprise deals general assembly's anand chopra-mcgowan shares the tactics that helped ga tighten its sales cycle to win big enterprise clients. keep reading sales the three frameworks you need to kick-start sales talentiq vp of sales whitney sales offers three indispensable exercises for startups seeking to build their early sales function and tally their first deals.keep reading sales here are the scripts for sales success — emails, calls and demos that close deals seldom do you see sales advice that's so specific, down to the actual language you should use to get customers to say yes. here, sales expert peter kazanjy shares exactly what's worked for him.keep reading sales the company-changing magic of sales operations done right don otvos is one of the sharpest minds in tech sales today. here, he talks about building and incentivizing your team to send revenue up and to the right.keep reading sales expensify’s ceo on the tactics that doubled its customer base in just six months expensify founder and ceo david barrett dispels five myths about user acquisition and shares atypical truths about how to attract and retain new customers. keep reading sales a blueprint from the woman who helped adroll double its sales force and sales former adroll director diane lu maps out the sales operations team that can turn your startup's sales force into a revenue-generating juggernaut. keep reading sales building your best sales deck starts here a step-by-step walkthrough for startups to build and win with their first sales deck from talentbin's peter kazanjy.keep reading sales 10 ways you need to change how you think and talk to succeed at sales to be awesome at sales, you have to break certain social rules. sales aficionado peter kazanjy shares how to create new habits that will help you win.keep reading sales you're losing hundreds of thousands of dollars because of poor sales onboarding talentbin co-founder peter kazanjy on how startups can design their own bootcamps to make sure sales teams are spun up to succeed.keep reading sales designing your sales stack so that customers come to you two proven sales experts on how to build a process and team from the ground up to consistently boost revenue month over month.keep reading sales from 0 to $1b - slack's founder shares their epic launch strategy “hell yeah we're using @slackhq at work i. love. slack.”keep reading sales when it comes to market leadership, be the gorilla there are three ways to dominate a market: product leadership, cost leadership or customer intimacy leadership. here's how to achieve it.keep reading sales you aren’t born knowing how to be a ceo bazaarvoice ceo brett hurt on how new founders can get up to speed fast and the key things they need to know now.keep reading sales this 23-year-old built and sold his startup while in school - here’s how he did it in 2014, dan shipper sold his company and graduated from college in the same month. these are the 3 tactics he says made it possible.keep reading sales annual planning is killing your growth – try this plan instead the need to plan a year ahead can cripple fast-changing startups. instead, here's a system to think long-term with short-term agility.keep reading sales this woman has landed millions of app installs — how she does it tamara steffens specializes in driving user acquisition and has it down to a science. here, she says what startups must do to gain traction.keep reading sales survive the leap to hyper-growth with this advice from steve blank most startups die right before they enter hyper-growth. steve blank shares his perspectives on how companies can cross the chasm.keep reading sales the anatomy of the perfect sales hiring process sales is a unique function to hire for, requiring different criteria and strategy. talentbin co-founder peter kazanjy has the process nailed. here it is.keep reading sales to build an amazing sales team, start here first talentbin co-founder peter kazanjy offers his seasoned advice on how startups can accelerate sales with a strong narrative.keep reading sales the 39 best pieces of sales advice you’ll hear this year wiley cerilli has built huge sales teams from scratch, emerging with an arsenal of lessons for founders looking to do the same thing.keep reading sales looking to scale your sales? seven bullets to dodge upshift partners founder gabriel luna-ostaseski lists the 7 deadly sins of sales that can tank your company before you even have traction.keep reading first round review magazinesmanifestobooksfirst round capital get the review deliveredget the review delivered join thank you! twitterfacebooklinkedin