profile go ad-free logout news & politics economy & innovation culture science & health food life stories video about news & politics economy & innovation culture science & health food life stories video about home schooling now? lose those schedules patricia zaballos editor's picks home schooling now? lose those schedules patricia zaballos netflix's "uncorked" is sweet and earthy ashlie d. stevens the flawed beauty of new nazi-era biopic mary elizabeth williams "picard" finale: hail to the future melanie mcfarland netflix's "uncorked" is sweet and earthy ashlie d. stevens the flawed beauty of new nazi-era biopic mary elizabeth williams our picks trending newest now month forever america is entering another great depression — and it's time for a new new deal amanda marcotte how trump's chaotic incompetence, and the "deconstruction" of the "deep state," got us here heather digby parton trump's death cult finally says it: time to kill the "useless eaters" for capitalism chauncey devega political prophet allan lichtman: trump is more likely to lose because of coronavirus matthew rozsa north carolina newspaper demands gop sen. richard burr resign over stock sales: "inexcusably wrong" alex henderson - alternet jared kushner criticized for being "as good at handling a pandemic as he is at middle east peace" sky palma - raw story fox business fires trish regan following wild claim of “coronavirus impeachment scam”: report bob brigham - raw story gop objector forced house members to return to washington to pass stimulus despite risk of infection igor derysh trump dismisses pleas from governors for thousands of ventilators: "i don’t think they’ll need" them igor derysh british prime minister boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 matthew rozsa democrats block bailout for big oil in coronavirus stimulus package emily pontecorvo - grist a "thermonuclear pandemic": harvard scientist's coronavirus prediction ignored by officials alex henderson - alternet mitch mcconnell sneaks provision to boost sunscreen from his home state into stimulus bill: report matthew chapman - raw story in these darkest of times "star trek: picard" is a humane light from a distant, possible future melanie mcfarland from "new waves" to "on immunity," what "little fires" author celeste ng is reading right now hanh nguyen netflix's "crip camp" delivers a message of radicalism and compassion that we all need right now ashlie d. stevens coronavirus and customer service: are call center employees "essential workers"? hamilton nolan - in these times fact or fiction: warmer weather slows down the coronavirus shannon osaka - grist covid-19 crisis sparks demand for us to nationalize hospitals eoin higgins - common dreams "fox & friends" host complains she can't get her nails done: "people are dying, and i realize that" igor derysh experts: trump’s plan to lift coronavirus restrictions by easter would kill hundreds of thousands igor derysh steve mnuchin: "not relevant" that record 3.28 million americans applied for unemployment benefits matthew rozsa joe scarborough: democrats "look more pro-life" than republicans amid calls to "euthanize" elderly matthew rozsa mississippi's gop governor halts abortions over coronavirus but bans cities from closing gun stores igor derysh the christian right's hostility to science is definitely going to get people killed amanda marcotte fine print in corporate-friendly coronavirus bill passed by senate could benefit trump and kushner igor derysh fearless journalism in your inbox every day sign up for our free newsletter • • • load more home about staff contact privacy terms of service dmca policy archive go ad free copyright © 2019 salon.com, llc. reproduction of material from any salon pages without written permission is strictly prohibited. salon ® is registered in the u.s. patent and trademark office as a trademark of salon.com, llc. associated press articles: copyright © 2016 the associated press. all rights reserved. this material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.