engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget samsung galaxy buds+ buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones samsung galaxy buds+ reviews / headphones samsung galaxy buds+ from $149.99+ $149.99 buy now share share 83 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 83 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review don’t let the familiar design fool you, samsung’s latest earbuds were overhauled to drastically improve audio, nearly double the battery life and boost call quality. there’s now an ios companion app that brings most of the buds+ features to apple devices, making these more of an airpod competitor. plus, samsung kept the price relatively low at $150. read full review pros affordably priced improved audio longer battery life deeper ios integration better call quality impressive wireless range cons no active noise cancellation on-board controls require sacrifices still only ipx2 rated reviews 80 average critic score critic reviews 10 80 pc mag samsung galaxy buds+ review the samsung galaxy buds+ are just like the original, just with much more longer battery life for a slightly higher price. they deliver solid audio performance, good voice quality, and, of course, terrific battery life. they aren't perfect, however; the touch panels are a little too sensitive and the ip rating is very low. still, they're a solid choice in this price range, and worth your consideration. read full review 80 cnet airpods competitor ramps up the performance new york can be notoriously difficult on true wireless earbuds with interference issues, but i didn't experience any dropouts or glitches. i also didn't notice any problem with audio syncing when using various video streaming apps (including youtube, netflix and disneyplus). ultimately, i don't think these will slow the sales of airpods, but the galaxy buds have only become a better option for android users and may even earn some fans who use ios devices. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type earbud drivers per ear 2 noise isolation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type drivers per ear noise isolation connections inline controls earbud 2 yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 83 engadget score there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. 83 there's a lot to like about this in spite of a few flaws. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 83 critic 10 reviews 80 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr