skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about latest all entries summary 1893 introduction log in register search go a new diary entry appears here at the end of each day. tuesday 26 march 1667 up with a sad heart in reference to my mother, of whose death i undoubtedly expect to hear the next post, if not of my father’s also, who by his pain as well as his grief for her is very ill, but on my own behalf i have cause to be joyful this day, it being my usual feast day, for my being cut of the stone this day nine years, and through god’s blessing am at this day and have long been in as good condition of health as ever i was in my life or any man in england is, god make me thankful for it! but the condition i am in, in reference to my mother, makes it unfit for me to keep my usual feast. unless it shall please god to send her well (which i despair wholly of), and then i will make amends for it by observing another day in its room. so to the office, and at the office all the morning, where i had an opportunity to speak to sir john harman about my desire to have my brother balty go again with him to sea as he did the last year, which he do seem not only contented but pleased with, which i was glad of. so at noon home to dinner, where i find creed, who dined with us, but i had not any time to talk with him, my head being busy, and before i had dined was called away by sir w. batten, and both of us in his coach (which i observe his coachman do always go now from hence towards white hall through tower street, and it is the best way) to exeter house, where the judge was sitting, and after several little causes comes on ours, and while the several depositions and papers were at large reading (which they call the preparatory), and being cold by being forced to sit with my hat off close to a window in the hall, sir w. pen and i to the castle tavern hard by and got a lobster, and he and i staid and eat it, and drank good wine; i only burnt wine, as my whole custom of late hath been, as an evasion, god knows, for my drinking of wine (but it is an evasion which will not serve me now hot weather is coming, that i cannot pretend, as indeed i really have done, that i drank it for cold), but i will leave it off, and it is but seldom, as when i am in women’s company, that i must call for wine, for i must be forced to drink to them. having done here then we back again to the court, and there heard our cause pleaded; sir [edward] turner, sir w. walker, and sir ellis layton being our counsel against only sir robert wiseman on the other. the second of our three counsel was the best, and indeed did speak admirably, and is a very shrewd man. nevertheless, as good as he did make our case, and the rest, yet when wiseman come to argue (nay, and though he did begin so sillily that we laughed in scorn in our sleeves at him), yet he did so state the case, that the judge did not think fit to decide the cause to-night, but took to to-morrow, and did stagger us in our hopes, so as to make us despair of the success. i am mightily pleased with the judge, who seems a very rational, learned, and uncorrupt man, and much good reading and reason there is heard in hearing of this law argued, so that the thing pleased me, though our success doth shake me. thence sir w. pen and i home and to write letters, among others a sad one to my father upon fear of my mother’s death, and so home to supper and to bed. read 10 annotations by readers monday 25 march 1667 (ladyday.) up, and with sir w. batten and [sir] w. pen by coach to exeter house to our lawyers to have consulted about our trial to-morrow, but missed them, so parted, and [sir] w. pen and i to mr. povy’s about a little business of [sir] w. pen’s, where we went over mr. povy’s house, which lies in the same good condition as ever, which is most extraordinary fine, and he was now at work with a cabinet-maker, making of a new inlaid table. having seen his house, we away, having in our way thither called at mr. lilly’s, who was working; and indeed his pictures are without doubt much beyond mr. hales’s, i think i may say i am convinced: but a mighty proud man he is, and full of state. so home, and to the office, and by and by to dinner, a poor dinner, my wife and i, at sir w. pen’s, and then he and i before to exeter house, where i do not stay, but to the king’s playhouse; and by and by comes mr. lowther and his wife and mine, and into a box, forsooth, neither of them being dressed, which i was almost ashamed of. sir w. pen and i in the pit, and here saw “the mayden queene” again; which indeed the more i see the more i like, and is an excellent play, and so done by nell, her merry part, as cannot be better done in nature, i think. thence home, and there i find letters from my brother, which tell me that yesterday when he wrote my mother did rattle in the throat so as they did expect every moment her death, which though i have a good while expected did much surprise me, yet was obliged to sup at sir w. pen’s and my wife, and there counterfeited some little mirth, but my heart was sad, and so home after supper and to bed, and much troubled in my sleep of my being crying by my mother’s bedside, laying my head over hers and crying, she almost dead and dying, and so waked, but what is strange, methought she had hair over her face, and not the same kind of face as my mother really hath, but yet did not consider that, but did weep over her as my mother, whose soul god have mercy of. read 27 annotations by readers sunday 24 march 1666/67 (lord’s day). with sir w. batten to white hall, and there i to sir g. carteret, who is mighty cheerful, which makes me think and by some discourse that there is expectation of a peace, but i did not ask [him]. here was sir j. minnes also: and they did talk of my lord bruncker, whose father, it seems, did give mr. ashburnham and the present lord digby 1200l. to be made an irish lord, and swore the same day that he had not 12d. left to pay for his dinner: they make great mirth at this, my lord bruncker having lately given great matter of offence both to them and us all, that we are at present mightily displeased with him. by and by to the duke of york, where we all met, and there was the king also; and all our discourse was about fortifying of the medway and harwich, which is to be entrenched quite round, and portsmouth: and here they advised with sir godfry lloyd and sir bernard de gum, the two great engineers, and had the plates drawn before them; and indeed all their care they now take is to fortify themselves, and are not ashamed of it: for when by and by my lord arlington come in with letters, and seeing the king and duke of york give us and the officers of the ordnance directions in this matter, he did move that we might do it as privately as we could, that it might not come into the dutch gazette presently, as the king’s and duke of york’s going down the other day to sheerenesse was, the week after, in the harlem gazette. the king and duke of york both laughed at it, and made no matter, but said, “let us be safe, and let them talk, for there is nothing will trouble them more, nor will prevent their coming more, than to hear that we are fortifying ourselves.” and the duke of york said further, “what said marshal turenne, when some in vanity said that the enemies were afraid, for they entrenched themselves? `well,’ says he, ‘i would they were not afraid, for then they would not entrench themselves, and so we could deal with them the better.’” away thence, and met with sir h. cholmly, who tells me that he do believe the government of tangier is bought by my lord allington for a sum of money to my lord arlington, and something to lord bellasses, who (he did tell me particularly how) is as very a false villain as ever was born, having received money of him here upon promise and confidence of his return, forcing him to pay it by advance here, and promising to ask no more there, when at the same time he was treating with my lord allington to sell his command to him, and yet told sir h. cholmly nothing of it, but when sir h. cholmly told him what he had heard, he confessed that my lord allington had spoken to him of it, but that he was a vain man to look after it, for he was nothing fit for it, and then goes presently to my lord allington and drives on the bargain, yet tells lord allington what he himself had said of him, as [though] sir h. cholmly had said them. i am glad i am informed hereof, and shall know him for a lord, &c. sir h. cholmly tells me further that he is confident there will be a peace, and that a great man did tell him that my lord albemarle did tell him the other day at white hall as a secret that we should have a peace if any thing the king of france can ask and our king can give will gain it, which he is it seems mad at. thence back with sir w. batten and [sir] w. pen home, and heard a piece of sermon, and so home to dinner, where balty come, very fine, and dined with us, and after dinner with me by water to white hall, and there he and i did walk round the park, i giving him my thoughts about the difficulty of getting employment for him this year, but advised him how to employ himself, and i would do what i could. so he and i parted, and i to martin’s, where i find her within, and ‘su hermano’ and ‘la veuve’ burroughs. here i did ‘demeurer toda’ the afternoon … by and by come up the mistress of the house, crags, a pleasant jolly woman. i staid all but a little, and away home by water through bridge, a brave evening, and so home to read, and anon to supper, w. hewer with us, and then to read myself to sleep again, and then to bed, and mightily troubled the most of the night with fears of fire, which i cannot get out of my head to this day since the last great fire. i did this night give the waterman who uses to carry me 10s. at his request, for the painting of his new boat, on which shall be my arms. read 29 annotations by readers saturday 23 march 1666/67 at the office all the morning, where sir w. pen come, being returned from chatham, from considering the means of fortifying the river medway, by a chain at the stakes, and ships laid there with guns to keep the enemy from coming up to burn our ships; all our care now being to fortify ourselves against their invading us. at noon home to dinner, and then to the office all the afternoon again, where mr. moore come, who tells me that there is now no doubt made of a peace being agreed on, the king having declared this week in council that they would treat at bredagh. he gone i to my office, where busy late, and so to supper and to bed. vexed with our mayde luce, our cook-mayde, who is a good drudging servant in everything else, and pleases us, but that she will be drunk, and hath been so last night and all this day, that she could not make clean the house. my fear is only fire. read 27 annotations by readers friday 22 march 1666/67 up and by coach to sir ph. warwicke about business for tangier about money, and then to sir stephen fox to give him account of a little service i have done him about money coming to him from our office, and then to lovett’s and saw a few baubling things of their doing which are very pretty, but the quality of the people, living only by shifts, do not please me, that it makes me i do no more care for them, nor shall have more acquaintance with them after i have got my lady castlemayne’s picture home. so to white hall, where the king at chapel, and i would not stay, but to westminster to howlett’s, and there, he being not well, i sent for a quart of claret and burnt it and drank, and had a ‘basado’ or three or four of sarah, whom ‘je trouve ici’, and so by coach to sir robt. viner’s about my accounts with him, and so to the ‘change, where i hear for certain that we are going on with our treaty of peace, and that we are to treat at bredah. but this our condescension people do think will undo us, and i do much fear it. so home to dinner, where my wife having dressed herself in a silly dress of a blue petticoat uppermost, and a white satin waistcoat and whitehood, though i think she did it because her gown is gone to the tailor’s, did, together with my being hungry, which always makes me peevish, make me angry, but when my belly was full were friends again, and dined and then by water down to greenwich and thence walked to woolwich, all the way reading playford’s “introduction to musique,” wherein are some things very pretty. at woolwich i did much business, taking an account of the state of the ships there under hand, thence to blackwall, and did the like for two ships we have repairing there, and then to deptford and did the like there, and so home. captain perriman with me from deptford, telling me many particulars how the king’s business is ill ordered, and indeed so they are, god knows! so home and to the office, where did business, and so home to my chamber, and then to supper and to bed. landing at the tower to-night i met on tower hill with captain cocke and spent half an hour walking in the dusk of the evening with him, talking of the sorrowful condition we are in, that we must be ruined if the parliament do not come and chastize us, that we are resolved to make a peace whatever it cost, that the king is disobliging the parliament in this interval all that may be, yet his money is gone and he must have more, and they likely not to give it, without a great deal of do. god knows what the issue of it will be. but the considering that the duke of york, instead of being at sea as admirall, is now going from port to port, as he is at this day at harwich, and was the other day with the king at sheernesse, and hath ordered at portsmouth how fortifications shall be made to oppose the enemy, in case of invasion, [which] is to us a sad consideration, and as shameful to the nation, especially after so many proud vaunts as we have made against the dutch, and all from the folly of the duke of albemarle, who made nothing of beating them, and sir john lawson he always declared that we never did fail to beat them with lesser numbers than theirs, which did so prevail with the king as to throw us into this war. read 24 annotations by readers thursday 21 march 1666/67 up, and to the office, where sat all the morning. at noon home to dinner, and had some melancholy discourse with my wife about my mother’s being so ill and my father, and after dinner to cheer myself, i having the opportunity of sir w. coventry and the duke of york’s being out of town, i alone out and to the duke of york’s play-house, where unexpectedly i come to see only the young men and women of the house act; they having liberty to act for their own profit on wednesdays and fridays this lent: and the play they did yesterday, being wednesday, was so well-taken, that they thought fit to venture it publickly to-day; a play of my lord falkland’s called “the wedding night,” a kind of a tragedy, and some things very good in it, but the whole together, i thought, not so. i confess i was well enough pleased with my seeing it: and the people did do better, without the great actors, than i did expect, but yet far short of what they do when they are there, which i was glad to find the difference of. thence to rights home, and there to the office to my business hard, being sorry to have made this scape without my wife, but i have a good salvo to my oath in doing it. by and by, in the evening, comes sir w. batten’s mingo to me to pray me to come to his master and sir richard ford, who have very ill news to tell me. i knew what it was, it was about our trial for a good prize to-day, “the phoenix,” a worth two or 3000l.. i went to them, where they told me with much trouble how they had sped, being cast and sentenced to make great reparation for what we had embezzled, and they did it so well that i was much troubled at it, when by and by sir w. batten asked me whether i was mortified enough, and told me we had got the day, which was mighty welcome news to me and us all. but it is pretty to see what money will do. yesterday, walker was mighty cold on our behalf, till sir w. batten promised him, if we sped in this business of the goods, a coach; and if at the next trial we sped for the ship, we would give him a pair of horses. and he hath strove for us today like a prince, though the swedes’ agent was there with all the vehemence he could to save the goods, but yet we carried it against him. this put me in mighty good heart, and then we go to sir w. pen, who is come back to-night from chatham, and did put him into the same condition, and then comforted him. so back to my office, and wrote an affectionate and sad letter to my father about his and my mother’s illness, and so home to supper and to bed late. read 30 annotations by readers wednesday 20 march 1666/67 up pretty betimes, and to the old swan, and there drank at michell’s, but his wife is not there, but gone to her mother’s, who is ill, and so hath staid there since sunday. thence to westminster hall and drank at the swan, and ‘baiserais the petite misse’; and so to mrs. martin’s … i sent for some burnt wine, and drank and then away, not pleased with my folly, and so to the hall again, and there staid a little, and so home by water again, where, after speaking with my wife, i with sir w. batten and [sir] j. minnes to our church to the vestry, to be assessed by the late poll bill, where i am rated as an esquire, and for my office, all will come to about 50l.. but not more than i expected, nor so much by a great deal as i ought to be, for all my offices. so shall be glad to escape so. thence by water again to white hall, and there up into the house, and do hear that newes is come now that the enemy do incline again to a peace, but could hear no particulars, so do not believe it. i had a great mind to have spoke with the king, about a business proper enough for me, about the french prize man-of-war, how he would have her altered, only out of a desire to show myself mindful of business, but my linen was so dirty and my clothes mean, that i neither thought it fit to do that, nor go to other persons at the court, with whom i had business, which did vex me, and i must remedy [it]. here i hear that the duke of richmond and mrs. stewart were betrothed last night. thence to westminster hall again, and there saw betty michell, and bought a pair of gloves of her, she being fain to keep shop there, her mother being sick, and her father gathering of the tax. i ‘aimais her de toute my corazon’. thence, my mind wandering all this day upon ‘mauvaises amours’ which i be merry for. so home by water again, where i find my wife gone abroad, so i to sir w. batten to dinner, and had a good dinner of ling and herring pie, very good meat, best of the kind that ever i had. having dined, i by coach to the temple, and there did buy a little book or two, and it is strange how “rycaut’s discourse of turky,” which before the fire i was asked but 8s. for, there being all but twenty-two or thereabouts burned, i did now offer 20s., and he demands 50s., and i think i shall give it him, though it be only as a monument of the fire. so to the new exchange, where i find my wife, and so took her to unthanke’s, and left her there, and i to white hall, and thence to westminster, only out of idleness, and to get some little pleasure to my ‘mauvais flammes’, but sped not, so back and took up my wife; and to polichinelli at charing crosse, which is prettier and prettier, and so full of variety that it is extraordinary good entertainment. thence by coach home, that is, my wife home, and i to the exchange, and there met with fenn, who tells me they have yet no orders out of the exchequer for money upon the acts, which is a thing not to be borne by any prince of understanding or care, for no money can be got advanced upon the acts only from the weight of orders in form out of the exchequer so long time after the passing of the acts. so home to the office a little, where i met with a sad letter from my brother, who tells me my mother is declared by the doctors to be past recovery, and that my father is also very ill every hour: so that i fear we shall see a sudden change there. god fit them and us for it! so to sir w. pen’s, where my wife was, and supped with a little, but yet little mirth, and a bad, nasty supper, which makes me not love the family, they do all things so meanly, to make a little bad show upon their backs. thence home and to bed, very much troubled about my father’s and my mother’s illness. read 12 annotations by readers continue reading tuesday 19 march 1666/67 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 latest in-depth articles q&a with dr kate loveman 14 april 2019 review: "pepys's navy: ships, men and warfare 1649-1689" by j. d. davies 8 march 2018 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site