facebook twitter email linkedin reddit pinterest comments next story subscribe e-edition sign in local san francisco bay area coronavirus crime wildfires election 2020 obituaries sports giants warriors 49ers a's sharks high school raiders college election 2020 biz+tech visionsf real estate us & world opinion datebook movies & tv music theater art & exhibits dance classical books festivals bad reporter food the press top 100 restaurants inside scoop restaurants recipes norcal brewery map beer & wine culture desk outdoors travel vault: archive chronicle covers our san francisco from the archive portals of the past archives search podcasts investigations in-depth newsletters photos chronicle quizzes membership about membership exclusive offers join now e-edition app manage my account store privacy notice do not sell my info terms of use local coronavirus election sporting green food biz+tech culture desk datebook us & world opinion in-depth podcasts breaking news: coronavirus live updates: trump signs $2.2 trillion stimulus bill as us cases top 100,000read now just in: california halts coronavirus-related evictions through may top of the news drip, drip: california democrats gain again in post-election day count3:13 pm coronavirus complicates family’s grief over son, father gunned down in...3:13 pm cannabis industry booming, but companies left out of coronavirus stimulus3:22 pm bay area brewery cleophus quealy to close permanently2:53 pm undocumented immigrants seeking asylum are entitled to bond hearing3:26 pm bay area air quality has seen ‘unprecedented’ improvement3:36 pm congress passes $2 trillion coronavirus bill3:30 pm coronavirus impact online grocery deliveries are buckling under intense demand first, there were long lines in grocery stores and empty shelves. then came the lengthy waits for online deliveries. now, the curt cancellation emails. bay area restaurants updates: food industry responding to coronavirus 3:49 pm instacart tweaks policies as shoppers plan strike 1:50 pm where to get grocery delivery in the bay area during coronavirus coronavirus testing 3:42 pm santa clara convention center transforms in coronavirus hospital bay area counties preparing for a potential surge of patients stricken with covid-19. that surge could come in days or weeks — or not at all. but u.s. cases top 86,000, surpassing those of any other country in the world. sf to open 3 new drive-through, drop-in coronavirus testing sites bay area cases climb as testing grows: 26% test positive at hayward site coronavirus tests: where can i get one in the bay area? 2:02 pm heather knight 2:05 pm how s.f. has stayed ahead of coronavirus curve: slashing red tape, shedding bureaucracy new nurses? check. new hospital beds? check. new homeless shelters? check. how notoriously slow city hall picked up its pace to tackle the coronavirus crisis. as calif. braces for surge, nursing students beg to enter workforce early coronavirus impact 2:08 pm world’s worst birthday gift: catching covid-19 and losing her health care job aja de coudreax last week lost her job scheduling medical home health care, and on her birthday the next morning she came down with covid-19. coronavirus 2:48 pm teletherapy provides a pandemic lifeline but presents new complications therapy, for many clients of clinical psychologist heather wassarman, involves simply going out into the world, a place they fear most. coronavirus bay area businesses push boundaries of stay-at-home orders what’s essential under shelter-in-place orders? in the chaotic first days of the regional shutdown, some companies sought to write their own rules. a lack of clear guidance from local governments didn’t help. free coronavirus coverage the san francisco chronicle is making critical coronavirus reporting, as well as additional public service information, free. click below to read these stories. subscribe now to support our work and for full access to the chronicle. critical resources live updates follow the latest developments key information what bay area residents need to know testing where you can get a coronavirus test in the bay area faqs what's open and what's closed your food and grocery questions answered what to know about transit out of work? these businesses are hiring what to do if you have symptoms how to help: donate or volunteer the bay area's best journalism, every weekday morning sign up by subscribing, you agree to our terms of use and acknowledge that your information will be used as described in our privacy notice. trends covid-19 food exercise coronavirus good news interactive map tracking covid-19 cases across california food resources where you can get grocery delivery in the bay area database of restaurants offering food for pickup or delivery coronavirus in the bay area empty handwashing stations not helping homeless, or anyone else the covid-19 pandemic has revealed massive shortcomings in homeless services, including the basics like washing hands. coronavirus map: tracking covid-19 cases social distancing, quarantine: what does it mean for bay area residents? chronicle readers’ top questions about coronavirus answered how life has changed with shelter-in-place order more on coronavirus outbreak bay area coronavirus testing: how many have been tested? the answer is probably no. most people do not need, and should not ask for, testing for the coronavirus. about 80% of people who are infected will experience only mild symptoms and won’t... ny’s coronavirus surge holds lessons for california, which is listening sf chinatown restaurants still open during coronavirus: here’s the list on the bright side: mill valley howls in unison, on a nightly basis sf general hospital er staffer has covid-19, workers file complaint coronavirus faqs coronavirus: are bay area courts still open? bay area coronavirus shutdown: am i getting a stimulus check? can you get the coronavirus from touching or eating food? can you get covid-19 again if you already had it? where to donate masks, other medical supplies in the bay area how long does coronavirus stay on surfaces? how do i do laundry? bay area school closures: what do they mean for your family? what to know about getting medical treatment coronavirus: should you wear a face mask? can i donate hand-sewn masks? what to know about mental health what older people and their loved ones need to know sporting green no olympics? warriors aren’t too concernedother than stephen curry having to wait at least a year for his chance to compete, the warriors weren’t upset to hear that the olympic games were postponed until 2021. bruce jenkins sharks’ couture, other nhl captains stress patience during coronavirus... ross mckeon warriors’ mulder goes from ‘best day of my life’ to waiting game connor letourneau 5 ways giants will be affected by mlb’s new deal john shea mlb deal would make a’s semien a free agent even if no games played susan slusser sports columnists ann killion steph curry is mvp for his coronavirus outreach, including dr.... warriors guard steph curry held a 30-minute question-and-answer on instagram with coronavirus expert dr. anthony fauci, a powerful and beautiful... scott ostler greatest baseball opening day? the one we united against... major league baseball won’t open thursday as it was scheduled to do, but we still can celebrate the day, the game, and the battle the world is... bruce jenkins 49ers’ joe montana: patriots made a mistake with tom brady joe montana, who knows all about leaving a team after crafting a hall of fame career, is baffled by new england’s choice to let quarterback tom... food & wine where to get grocery delivery in the bay area during coronavirusour directory of over 100 places you can order groceries for delivery during the pandemic. thieves party at closed bay area restaurant during shelter in place janelle bitker keller sues for coronavirus insurance coverage over french laundry, bouchon bob egelko new bay area restaurants open for takeout during lockdown janelle bitker california wineries rush to offer virtual wine tastings esther mobley cook at home 6 recipes to cook from the pantry during the coronavirus outbreak what to cook with the ingredients you have at home or that you can easily buy on your next shopping trip. a chocolate-prune cake that masquerades as a loaf batata vadas with dry garlic coconut chutney reem’s za’atar man’oushe flavor-infused butters elevate even the simplest snacks food & wine critics esther mobley can you get the coronavirus from touching or eating food? here’s what you need to know about how to handle fresh and packaged foods during the coronavirus outbreak. soleil ho bay area restaurants latest updates: food industry responding... an ongoing roster of bay area restaurants that have permanently closed after california’s march 17 shelter-in-place order. coronavirus food guides coronavirus restaurants where you can get delivery or takeout during the bay area's shelter-in-place order, our restaurant delivery guide will be continually updated with takeout and delivery options. local news weekend storm should help bay area’s shelter-in-place orderslight rain this weekend, along with brisk temperatures expected to top out in the upper 50s, should make it easier for bay area residents to shelter in place during the coronavirus outbreak. tony bravo ‘refugees’ flee bay area for taiwan, hoping to leave coronavirus behind peter hartlaub she was the last they thought could have virus — and first to die anna bauman sf’s muni metro to shut down monday; vta suspends all light rail service josh koehn san rafael’s eo products can’t make enough hand sanitizer lizzie johnson sf corruption probe sf’s building chief tom hui pulls the plug on himself tom hui, a civil servant for 31 years who was made dbi chief in 2013, allegedly abused his position by providing “intentional preferential treatment and access to walter wong.” mayor looks to fire sf building inspection head in wake of nuru probe sf corruption investigation yields 14 new subpoenas served as probe widens sf supes grill acting public works director over personnel, contracting nuru sings to city attorney to soften possible sentence politics kamala harris tries shaming big employers on coronavirus sick leavewhen it comes to large corporations that don’t provide paid sick leave for workers, sen. kamala harris is ready to resort to public shaming. dustin gardiner here’s what nancy pelosi wants in congress’ next big coronavirus bill dustin gardiner coronavirus stimulus: what bay area gets in $2 trillion package dustin gardiner coronavirus election-safety changes left out of $2 trillion stimulus bill john wildermuth coronavirus restart: trump ‘raring to go’ by april; newsom sees danger joe garofoli newsroom voices heather knight sf’s most vulnerable are packed into homeless shelters with... san franciscans are supposed to stay 6 feet apart from each other — except in homeless shelters, which were told this week to avoid implementing... phil matier ac transit passengers get free ride throughout pandemic thanks to social distancing needs, bus rides on ac transit are now free and will be until the end of the pandemic. otis r. taylor jr. coronavirus outbreak behind bars: advocates fear inmates will... jail environments are ripe for coronavirus transmission, but advocates fear inmates will avoid reporting symptoms for fear of losing privileges. contact us securely and confidentially have sensitive news, documents or information you want to share confidentially? here's how to contact chronicle journalists securely. political columnist joe garofoli airlines would get billions in bailout, while noncitizen... the $2 trillion federal bailout legislation working its way through congress would direct billions to the airline and hotel industries, but might... biz+tech tesla to cut three-quarters of workers at nevada plantthe palo alto electric car maker, which has already mostly shuttered its fremont factory under state and county health orders, will cut 75% of its workforce at its nevada battery and electric... chase difeliciantonio bay area pet care industry reeling, adapting amid coronavirus pandemic rusty simmons stimulus bill would make it easier to tap retirement accounts kathleen pender advocates ask state to expand social safety net during pandemic carolyn said tesla: two workers have the coronavirus, are in quarantine chase difeliciantonio business columnists kathleen pender feds delay deadline for making ira contributions, may waive... you have until july 15 to make an ira contribution for 2019, irs says. also, stimulus bill would waive required minimum distributions from iras... owen thomas san francisco should be the world’s laboratory in the fight... being over tech is so 2019. we need to marshal the city’s creativity like never before — and knock down barriers to innovation. datebook pink floyd’s roger waters postpones tour due to coronavirusroger waters has postponed his this is not a drill tour, which was scheduled to reach the golden 1 center in sacramento on sept. 23 and chase center in san francisco for sept. 25-26 shows, due... dead & company add weekly concert live stream during coronavirus... roxie and smith rafael film center open during shutdown — online cal shakes cancels entire 2020 season, citing coronavirus concerns artists find ways to keep bay area kids creating during lockdown streaming trapped: create your own shelter-in-place film festival feeling a bit trapped as you shelter in place during the coronavirus pandemic? the movies can empathize. review: brittany snow shows her range in 'hooking up' review: 'feel good' a brilliant romp through love and addiction review: in 'resistance' jesse eisenberg depicts mime's nazi-fighting youth netflix movie ‘uncorked’ pits fine wine against memphis barbecue bad reporter by don asmussen datebook columnists bay area writers share comforting recommendations for troubled... as we remain sheltered in place, vanessa hua asked several bay area writers with new and forthcoming work for their recommendations. for subscribers local how to get the most out of your chronicle subscription from unlimited digital access to newsletters, podcasts, events and more, here's a list of benefits for san francisco chronicle subscribers. culture desk pandemiquette: a guide to manners in the age of coronaviruscourtesy and civility matter even more in a time of crisis. but the covid-19 pandemic has changed the very meaning of those terms. rachel levin on how to be civil in the manner-pocalypse. fitness instructors bridge isolation with virtual workouts ‘be safe’: rewriting email etiquette in our new coronavirus reality peter hartlaub observed: scenes from golden gate park before shelter-in-place george mccalman how to shelter in place when you’ve lost every sense of place justin phillips outdoors and coronavirus more bay area parks, beaches closing before weekend a new wave of park closures in san francisco and east bay counties, on top of earlier closures this week at parks at the san mateo county coast, marin and sonoma, is designed to address... everest’s coronavirus shutdown grounds oakland climber reader reactions: fear, rage and blame over jammed parks hikers urged to avoid pacific crest trail over coronavirus state parks shut all campgrounds due to coronavirus tom stienstra east bay parks may be next to close as huge crowds create... a deluge of visitors this weekend, many not practicing recommended coronavirus “social distancing” practices and parking illegally after... watch san francisco boys chorus rehearses amid shelter in place video by santiago mejia | 1:30 in-depth photos of the year chronicle vault long before the coronavirus, sf faced the 1918 spanish flumore than a century before the coronavirus, the spanish influenza... peter hartlaub marin county shipyard was built in a hurry after pearl harbor. it helped... dramatic mountain, dramatic views: archive photos of mount diablo bill van niekerken archive photos: baker beach’s beautiful vistas — and deadly history bill van niekerken in world war i, sf became a hotbed for a german-inspired conspiracy chronicle covers explore the stories behind classic front pages the san francisco chronicle came into existence more than 150 years ago. see classic newspaper pages from our archive for every day of the year. opinion editorial: protecting sf’s homeless from the pandemicthe city is tapping a suddenly unused resource, its often fancy hotel rooms, to help the most vulnerable during the crisis. change behavior or risk losing park access poetry: ‘hope amid chaos’ lessons from president lincoln in the age of coronavirus editorial: gov. newsom should help stop evictions opinion columnists john diaz time for 21st century (online) voting in congress the coronavirus pandemic has elevated the idea that members of congress should be able to vote electronically in some cases. the rules now... willie brown coronavirus in the big city: here’s your coffee, there’s... there’s nothing like a morning walk through north beach to get a feel for how san francisco is handling the big lockdown. it’s a lot emptier,... return to top about our company newspaper delivery safety procedures privacy notice your california privacy rights interest based ads terms of use careers advertising newsroom ethics policy correction policy visual ethics guidelines anonymous sources policy endorsement process news tips contact customer service faq newsroom contacts ccpa do not sell my info services subscriber services e-edition app archives membership store subscription offers sfgate.com ©2020 hearst