community help center report a problem help center community report a problem sign in how can we help? khan academy help center sat resources and questions sat guides and resources sat study suggestions for parents and students during school closures updated march 24, 2020 19:27 follow dear parents and students, we may need to keep our physical distance during the current public health crisis, but we’re going to get through it together, and i’m writing to let you know that khan academy’s sat prep team is with you every step of the way. i’m dave, khan academy’s senior manager of test prep content. before joining khan academy, i ran a tutoring company in new york city for 18 years, and i’ve taught and coached sat students all over the world, in classrooms and online. the khan academy test prep team partners with the college board (makers of the sat) to create the best sat prep materials available. i’m honored to be able to share everything i learned in my tutoring career with our learners on official sat practice on khan academy! many of you may be wondering what you should be doing to prepare for the sat over the next few weeks. some of you might be enrolled in an sat class at school; some of you might be attending classes after school; your study plans might be disrupted a little by our current public health crisis, and they might be disrupted a lot. that’s where official sat practice on khan academy comes in. rest assured we're working closely with college board to arm you with as much information and help as possible during these disruptions. this message is packed full of ideas, along with a suggested study schedule. if you’re new to sat on khan academy, please familiarize yourself with our system by taking a few minutes to check out this product tour video or reading this overview article. now that you’ve explored a little, here are a couple of first steps: link your college board and khan academy accounts to update your personalized recommendations. download the daily practice for the sat app from college board to your device. consider signing up to get a question delivered to your inbox every day. remember, the sat is administered several times every year—sat prep is a long game, and you’ll have a chance to take the test later on this year. the more you do it, the better you get! good luck! warmly, dave in this section: best practices suggested study schedule best practices we know from research that there are three top practices associated with greater score improvements: take recommendations. our system creates personalized recommendations for students based on student performance and skill frequency in the sat—students who follow recommendations show greater score increases. do full length practice tests. full-length timed practice tests are the best way to build the stamina you’ll need on test day. we have eight full-length practice tests available to take online. you can also print pdfs of the tests to take on paper. use the college board’s daily practice app to scan-and-score your bubble sheets, get a score report, and update your practice recommendations! learn test-taking strategies while reviewing the questions you get wrong. each question in our system features step-by-step solutions and in-depth explanations, and we also have hundreds of articles and worked example videos designed to help students understand not only how to do each problem, but also how to identify opportunities to use strategies efficiently on test day. suggested study schedule you might have already been studying for months, or you might just be getting started. we encourage you to adjust the following suggested study program to your needs. please note: we may update this schedule as the situation evolves. week 1: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections one day, check out this new interactive article: how to approach a literature passage on the sat (~30 min) tips & strategies - try these! (adjust to your needs) tips for effective, efficient studying (5 min) tips for managing your study time (5 min) controlling careless errors in math (5 min) week 2: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections tips & strategies - try these! (adjust to your needs) time management strategy: two passes (5 min) time management strategy: level of difficulty (5 min) week 3: take and review a timed practice test set aside 3.5 hours to take a full-length practice test. check this out first! how to take a practice sat (3 min) after the test, carefully review all of the questions you missed - read solutions, watch related videos and read related articles in tips & strategies (suggestion: 1-2 hours) week 4: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections tips & strategies - try these! (adjust to your needs) watch this recorded facebook livestream - faq (watch it at 1.5-2x speed and skim to the parts that interest you) (~30 min) quick punctuation rules (5 min) apostrophes (3 min) week 5: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections tips & strategies - try these! (adjust to your needs) watch this recorded facebook livestream - top strategies (watch it at 1.5-2x speed and skim to the parts that interest you) (~30 min) setting up ideas quick guide - this is the first of a new series of articles designed to tell you everything you need to know about every question type on the writing and language test. check out the entire series! (30-60 min) week 6: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections tips & strategies - try these! (adjust to your needs) one day, check out this new interactive article: how to approach a social science passage on the sat(30 min) ready for some help in advanced math? check this one out: quadratics (10 min) week 7: take and review a timed practice test set aside 3.5 hours to take a full-length practice test. check this out first! how to take a practice sat (5 min) carefully review all of the questions you missed - read solutions, watch related videos and read related articles in tips & strategies (suggestion: 1-2 hours) week 8: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections tips & strategies - try these! it’s time to get serious about the essay: unpacking the prompt (5 min) analyzing a passage (5 min) sat essay glossary (5 min) week 9: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections watch worked example videos in the practice tab (if you haven’t already)! week 10: skill practice and strategies (suggestion: 30-40 mins daily) recommended skill practice and timed mini-sections watch worked example videos in the practice tab (if you haven’t already)! week 11: take and review a timed practice test set aside 3.5 hours to take a full-length practice test. check this out first! how to take a practice sat carefully review all of the questions you missed - read solutions, watch related videos and read related articles in tips & strategies (suggestion: 1-2 hours) week 12: some ideas for the final stretch review all of the questions you got wrong - in skill practice exercises and on your practice tests and review the solution steps so that you’ll know what to do when you see similar questions on test day (suggestion: ~45 mins daily) tips & strategies - try these! tips for test day (5 min) what to expect and what to bring (5 min) was this article helpful? 168 out of 175 found this helpful follow ask the community get khan academy tips, tricks, and help from your fellow community members visit our community our mission is to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere. khan academy is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization. donate or volunteer today! language english (us) български español français português do brasil about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more about news impact our team our content specialists our leadership our supporters careers internships contact help center support community share your story press download our apps ios app android app courses math by course math by grade science & engineering computing arts & humanities economics & finance test prep college, careers, & more © 2018 khan academy terms of use privacy notice