skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about free online daily classes for kids to help while schools are closed by naomi willis | last updated 26th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links stuck with fun ways for your kids to learn from home? here are free online classes for kids to keep their education going. i think pretty much every school in the country has been sharing school work for the kids to complete each day. at first, we printed everything out, and my daughter worked through… more latest co-op £5 frozen meal deal (april 2020) by naomi willis | last updated 27th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links it’s time to stock up your freezer with the latest co-op £5 meal deal which is in stores from 25 march 2020. the co-op food’s freezer filler meal deal is always a favourite with savvy shoppers, and it provides a quick, cheap meal when you’re in a rush, or you fancy a treat. after some… more morrisons food boxes feed 2 adults for 1 week with next day delivery by naomi willis | last updated 23rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links morrisons is selling new food boxes filled with everyday essentials. the boxes can feed 2 adults for a week and can be delivered next day. if you’re not able to get out to buy essentials, getting an online order may be your only option if you don’t have family around to help. to make things… more latest now tv free trials, offers, deals and discounts (march 2020) by naomi willis | last updated 23rd march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links save money watching tv and find out all the latest now tv offers, deals and discounts for entertainment, cinema, sports and kids passes. one way to save money on your bills is to ditch expensive tv packages. while you may think you need subscriptions like sky tv, chances are you don’t watch half the channels… more limits introduced at supermarkets to reduce panic buying by naomi willis | last updated 18th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links after too much panic buying (please stop it), supermarkets have finally put in place limits on what we can buy online and in store. instead of seeing empty shelves, the limits the supermarkets have put in place will allow more people to get what they need. please don’t be offended if people who work at… more tesco delivery saver guide and promotions by ricky willis | last updated 18th march 2020 | this post may contain affiliate links tesco delivery saver is a subscription based delivery service which enables you to reduce the cost of your supermarket delivery and make big savings over the month. as a busy family with not much spare time, being able to order our food shop online at tesco and choose a specific delivery slot is a godsend for… more 1 2 3 … 59 next page » contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about