home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » saving etta saving etta: paint colors + home tour guide june 28, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment saving etta: paint colors + home tour guide now that all the rooms have been revealed in the saving etta house, i thought you'd like one post to refer to all the paint colors used inside and outside the home. this will also be a great starting place to navigate all the saving … [read more...] home tour, painting, saving etta saving etta: upstairs room reveals june 21, 2019 brittany bailey 8 comments saving etta: upstairs room reveals we've come to the end of the saving etta room reveals. it's been fun, but it's time to move on to a new project. if you were here for the last saving etta reveal, you saw my announcement that i've purchased another house to renovate. the … [read more...] saving etta saving etta: living room reveal june 7, 2019 brittany bailey 8 comments saving etta: living room reveal i know it's been a while since you received a saving etta update. and, there's a good reason for the delay. not only did i renovate two bathrooms for our local habitat for humanity this past week, but i also bought a house! after six months of … [read more...] home tour, living room, saving etta saving etta: upstairs bathroom reveal may 17, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment saving etta: upstairs bathroom reveal today i'm revealing the last bathroom in the saving etta house. this bathroom is a departure from the more modern master bathroom and the shared downstairs bathroom. in the upstairs bathroom, i pushed the vintage look and added some feminine … [read more...] bathroom, saving etta saving etta: downstairs shared bathroom reveal may 3, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment saving etta: downstairs shared bathroom reveal the downstairs shared bathroom in the saving etta house was designed to function as an en suite bathroom to one of the bedrooms, but also to have a second door opening to the main hallway for guests or for anyone to use. i can't … [read more...] bathroom, home decor, saving etta how to install privacy film on windows april 29, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments how to install privacy film on windows do you have a window in your house that puts you on full display? or maybe your neighbor’s house is very close to your’s and you feel like they can see in your window (especially a bathroom or bedroom window.) sure you can add curtains or … [read more...] before and after, diy, renew, renovation, saving etta, video saving etta: master bathroom reveal april 15, 2019 brittany bailey 7 comments saving etta: master bathroom reveal this is a master bathroom reveal i've been dying to share with you. the master bathroom in the saving etta house acted as a room i could experiment in and test some ideas for my own personal bathroom (that is currently stuck in 1978). i used a … [read more...] bathroom, before and after, saving etta saving etta: revealing the downstairs bedrooms april 8, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments saving etta: revealing the downstairs bedrooms i'm thrilled to be able to reveal the downstairs bedrooms to you today. if there were two rooms that get me emotional in the saving etta house, it would be these two front bedrooms. they make up the majority of the 1900 portion of … [read more...] before and after, saving etta how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door april 5, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door earlier this week when i showed you the master bedroom in the saving etta house, you probably noticed the sliding barn door. i am in love with that door and especially excited that i was able to salvage the old bead board and … [read more...] build it, saving etta, video saving etta: master bedroom reveal april 3, 2019 brittany bailey 9 comments saving etta: master bedroom reveal i'm so happy with how the saving etta master bedroom looks and can't wait to show you the reveal. as you can probably tell, i took a bit of a risk with the paint color in this room and i'm so glad i did. before i invite you all the way into … [read more...] saving etta saving etta: mudroom reveal march 8, 2019 brittany bailey 5 comments saving etta: mudroom reveal is it bizarre to say that the saving etta mudroom might be one of the favorite spots in the saving etta house? i'm not sure if it's because this room has so many salvaged items. or maybe it's because this space gets a glorious dose of sun in the late … [read more...] mudroom, saving etta how to drill new door knob holes march 4, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment how to drill new holes for door knobs every once in a while, you might find yourself with a new (or old) door that needs a hole drilled into it for a door knob (or a deadbolt). today i have the perfect tutorial to ease your mind and help you learn how to drill a new hole for … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home decor, saving etta, video how to fix cracks in door panels without taking the door apart march 1, 2019 brittany bailey 5 comments how to fix cracks in door panels without taking the door apart wooden doors will develop cracks over time, especially if the panels aren't free to expand and contract. most of the time, years of paint or caulking the seams around the panels will cause the wood to stick and not … [read more...] before and after, door, fix it, hole filling, hole repair, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, saving etta saving etta: the long awaited kitchen reveal february 22, 2019 brittany bailey 15 comments saving etta: the long awaited kitchen reveal thank you all so much for your patience with me as i put together the final saving etta updates. i have more to come, but for now i know you're anxious to see the saving etta kitchen reveal. get settled down with a nice cup of coffee … [read more...] decorating, kitchen, kitchen renovation, renovation, saving etta saving etta: installing the tile backsplash & a mistake i’ll never make again february 18, 2019 brittany bailey 4 comments saving etta: installing the tile backsplash & a mistake i'll never make again last week you got to see how the range hood was installed (and how i averted disaster during the installation.) today i'm sharing more kitchen updates. we're going to dive into tiling a backsplash … [read more...] renovation, saving etta, tile saving etta: kitchen update & installing the range hood february 15, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments saving etta: kitchen update & installing the range hood this kitchen was a big deal for me. it was one of those projects i knew would make or break this house. it was also the first time i've taken the reins on kitchen design and installed cabinets. as the project was in the … [read more...] build it, decorating, kitchen, kitchen renovation, saving etta 1 2 3 4 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok