news engineering marketing daily life search news engineering marketing daily life topics menu search close copy link copied! news access_time february 13, 2019 hourglass_empty 2 min read person_outline artūras b. scaling happiness – hostinger’s story more than 30 million people around the globe have given hostinger the privilege of providing their services. because it’s a huge responsibility to be in control of someone’s online success, we’ve created a complex hiring processes to be sure that we hire only the best. we used all our knowledge to create a vast internal hostinger academy to train new customer service specialists that can rise to the challenge. however, this was not enough. the challenge we have provided the customers with a variety of communication tools to use for seeking guidance and support. originally, this included a traditional email ticket system, which meant lengthy responses and delayed resolution. the other option was to enter a live chat, which accelerated the response time, yet proved to be a drawback when the customer got disconnected and lost the progress of the conversation. the customer success team was held back due to technical issues and was unable to ensure effective solutions were passed on to individual users. “we have an amazing team of highly skilled specialists. we identified that the problem was tied to limiting software rather than the team itself. that was the breaking point. we simply couldn’t offer customer service that is anything less than perfect,” says darius grigorjevas, head of our customer success team. the challenge was to enable our customers to seek help in a fast, easy and user-friendly manner. the decision our team made implementing swift and efficient service in terms of immediate support assistance a priority. the only sensible way to achieve that was to go completely live and scrap the ticket system. for that reason, we chose intercom. it offered a messenger style live chat option which allowed our customers to jump back to the conversation at any time without losing the chat history. our customer queries and questions came straight to members of the success team, which meant that all issues were being solved on the spot. and thus we got the chance to stay efficient while maintaining the quality of service. intercom offered a way out for us and our customers. “we no longer had to worry about juggling live chat and tickets. we no longer lost customers to disconnecting chats, thanks to the messenger style chat system that intercom offers. even simple features like gif implementation was a contributing factor. it adds a healthier and more personal approach. something both our customers and customer success specialists love,” says darius. intercom offered a way to integrate the perfect practice by decreasing the wait time and reducing queues to a minimum. after the update, the response time went from several hours down to minutes or mere seconds, whereas the quality of service skyrocketed due to the customers receiving individual attention to their needs. the road ahead the customer’s feedback is what motivated us to look for the best solution available. constantly rising standards could only be achieved with a customer-centric approach, through diligent research, and through viewing the user as an individual, rather than a group. regardless, the goal is not to jump to new updates simply for the sake of change, but rather to tackle and challenge the existing ones in order to find better ways to reach the customer and make sure our improvements make a positive impact for the user in need first. providing better, more thoughtful ways of solving problems on the road ahead is something we won’t stop pursuing. top stories 11 dec • engineering introducing php 7.4: performance, features, deprecations read more → 27 nov • marketing how we run design sprints at hostinger read more → 29 jul • engineering improving website performance with litespeed read more → the author artūras b. / @arturasbarisauskas artūras is an experienced content writer that is working for hostinger. bringing in a lot of knowledge about wordpress and web hosting to the team, he strives to write pristine content about any it related subject. he also loves dogs! related stories 27 mar • news hostinger is partnering with the google cloud platform read more → 24 mar • news hostinger now offers .icu domain extension to all users read more → 27 sep • news hostinger partners with flock to offer better email options to its customers read more → redskydesigns.ca reply march 16, 2020 domain renewal done but i'm receiving emails that i need to renew? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hello jason! thank you for letting us know about this. we made sure that the next time you receive reminders is only when it's time to renew again. if you have any more questions, our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through your dashboard. best of luck! sarah reply march 16, 2020 starting our first web page. we are a small company. need a site to show model homes, location of lots available for new home builds, available homes for sale, contact info, financing options, mortgage calculator & a place for visitors to request they be contacted or ask questions. we don't need much, just storing images. you offer a free domain with the business shared hosting package, will that domain have privacy protection? are the plans scalable, meaning if i purchased a lower plan can i upgrade? if i purchased a higher plan that may be more than what i need, am i allowed to downgrade? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hello sarah, thank you for your question! domain privacy protection can be purchased when ordering your hosting plan and domain. and it is highly recommended to do so for your own privacy. upgrades can be easily done through your client dashboard, so don't worry - if you feel like a higher plan is needed, you will be able to change it with no hassle. ali russell reply march 12, 2020 hi, can i increase my php post max size to 256, my php time limit to 300 and my max upload size to 128mb on the basic plan? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hi ali! to set these limits, the business shared hosting plan would be the best choice for you. if you have any more questions, our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through your dashboard. kay ess reply march 09, 2020 would i be able to install a premium genesis wordpress theme that is being hosted by hostinger? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hi kay, you will be able to use this theme with no issues here at hostinger. best of luck to you with that! abhishek namdev reply march 09, 2020 can i use divi in hostinger domantas g. replied on march 17, 2020 hey abhishek, absolutely! gustavo taveira reply march 08, 2020 is it possible to add storage to a vps? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hello gustavo! if you need more storage in your vps plan, you can do so by upgrading your vps plan from your dashboard. this will immediately provide you with more resources, including storage. soo boon seng reply march 07, 2020 hihi, i would like to ask if i want to host a website in php language, is it easy to setup? andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hello! hostinger supports php websites and you can choose any of our hosting plans to host them on. if you need any help, our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through your dashboard. best of luck! yanik domingos reply march 05, 2020 you dont have a chat? andrius s. replied on march 06, 2020 hi yanik, our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through the purple live chat icon in your dashboard. you can also send an email to support@hostinger.com and our team will help you out! paul olokpq reply march 04, 2020 please i want to host my website but i am having issues with making payment. i need assistance. andrius s. replied on march 17, 2020 hello paul, our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through the purple live chat icon in your dashboard. you can also send an email to support@hostinger.com and a member of our team will be there to help you out with your payments. debbie reply march 02, 2020 i already have a domain that i want to renew as part of the service i'm buying but it won't allow me to add it to that cart as it hasn't expired yet?! andrius s. replied on march 03, 2020 hi debbie, to renew your domain, please go to the domains area in your client dashboard. you will see a button to renew the domain. hope that helps! cb reply march 01, 2020 i am looking to start a message board/public forum that i can populate and then sell ad space in the heading. i would like this to be an easy to use forum and not one of these crazy ones! andrius s. replied on march 01, 2020 hello! if you are looking to quickly set up a forum, we have solutions to choose from in our auto installer located under the website category on your website's control panel. after entering, look for community building section there. you will be able to find a list of available forum scripts, ready to be installed with just a few clicks. hope this helps! burhan khwaireh reply february 29, 2020 how i can chat with your support andrius s. replied on march 01, 2020 hi! our customer success team is available 24/7, so feel free to contact them anytime through the purple live chat icon in your dashboard. you can also send an email to support@hostinger.com to receive answers to any of your questions! chris reply january 28, 2020 i just signed up for the wordpress premium shared hosting and it says unlimited emails, but i do not see how to set them up? andrius s. replied on february 01, 2020 hi chris, to create a new inbox go to your dashboard -> emails -> email accounts and create one there! mukul reply january 23, 2020 do you provide windows based web-hosting? i have a godaddy windows hosted website and planning to migrate. let me know if you can do it and what would be the pricing. andrius s. replied on february 29, 2020 hi mukul! you can find our windows plans at hostinger.com/windows-vps mac owen reply january 18, 2020 billing. is this monthly or yearly? andrius s. replied on january 19, 2020 hi mac! you can choose from multiple payment periods and pick whether monthly, quarterly, annually or any other period is best for you. shahzad reply january 17, 2020 if we don't want to buy "secure your website with daily backups for only $0.95 per month" option during checkout process, then is there still any backup taken by hostinger?? andrius s. replied on january 18, 2020 yes, shahzad, weekly backups are made on our plans and you can access them from your dashboard. ankit soni reply november 25, 2019 i want to buy domain. can you halp me for that? domantas g. replied on november 27, 2019 hey ankit, we provide domain name registration services. you can use our domain name checker to find and register domain name. saif reply november 21, 2019 hi, i am currently using bluehost for my website which offers 1 click installation of wordpress, do i get 1 click wordpress installation on hostinger hosting plans as well? domantas g. replied on november 27, 2019 hey saif, absolutely! we offer a 1-click wordpress installer with all shared and cloud hosting plans. jose miguel fuentealba moya reply september 29, 2019 hi, i want to use a .co domain, can i do it with the domain you offer me when i buy the premium plan? domantas g. replied on november 27, 2019 hey jose, absolutely! we offer .co tld and you can get it for free when choosing our premium hosting plan. naveed reply august 15, 2019 hi, in credit card when i press pay now, it give me the message 3d secure authentication failed. my card is active i already confirmed from my bank at my end and there is no issue besides occurring from international merchant ! kindly guide me ? domantas g. replied on august 25, 2019 hey naveed, please refer to our support portal and contact our customer success agents regarding this matter. stephen kanu chukwuemeka reply july 19, 2019 do you accept payment through bitcoin? how fast is your services? domantas g. replied on august 25, 2019 hey stephen, yes, we accept all major cryptocurrencies. average response time is 80 ms, we use litespeed on all servers. acoyauh reply july 11, 2019 hello. i come from byethost (ifastnet) and i want to know if you can help me with the migration of my website to your servers. i mean the whole site (wordpress+woocommerce site). if so, i'll move in now. thank you! domantas g. replied on august 25, 2019 hey acoyauh, our customer success team will be glad to help you. pease refer to our help center and we will take care of the matter. thank you! dinesh kumar reply july 01, 2019 hi, i would like to transfer my existing website from current host to hostinger. can you please let me know - what information i will have to provide you for that transfer like existing urls etc. - do i need to get existing website files from them or they will automatically transfer by you. - can i use my existing website domain name, urls even after transferring to hostinger. regards, dinesh domantas g. replied on august 25, 2019 hey dineshi, it depends on what hosting provider you are using right now. please refer to our customer success portal for further assistance. josé antonio reply june 09, 2019 hi. is there support in other languages than english? it would be great if it was in spanish. domantas g. replied on july 12, 2019 hey josé antonio, yes, we provide 24/7 support in spanish. ho siew meng reply may 30, 2019 hi, i am a hostinger subscriber but i am now unable to access my account. please help. domantas g. replied on july 12, 2019 hey ho siew meng, please try to reset your password or contact our customer success team using public form. cristi reply may 28, 2019 guys, you have no chat options for people which are not your clients yet. so no way to get a quick answer to an inquiry. not good at all. domantas g. replied on july 12, 2019 hey cristi, you can use public contact form. our customer success team is available 24/7. web solution winner reply may 09, 2019 thank you so much. hasbullah reply may 02, 2019 thank you satish dange reply february 20, 2019 excellent post laira pelesco reply february 18, 2019 this is a level up customer service, thank you hostinger! alex duke reply february 17, 2019 i'm sure that one of the main reasons you guys became top web hosting is your customer support. i even mentioned it in my review: "in my 18 years of using the internet for business, i probably had to deal with customer support from over 50 web hosting companies. believe me or not, customer support is something where no company is even close to hostinger. any question my team or i had for them, they would answer in under 2-3 minutes and they would actually know what they are talking about every single time." medianovas.com/hostinger-review/ keep rockin' :) leave a reply cancel reply comment name* email* by using this form you agree with the storage and handling of your data by this website. * this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. become a part of hostinger now! get started now hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of fame compare reviews student discount pricing youtube creators hostinger is a leading worldwide cheap web hosting provider for millions of smart people, who really love to save a lot without losing high-quality & premium webhosting features. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat