skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download schema – all in one schema rich snippets by brainstorm force details reviews installation support development description get eye catching results in search engines with the most popular schema markup plugin. easy implementation of schema types like review, events, recipes, article, products, services etc what is a rich snippet? it is basically a short summary of your page in the search results of google, yahoo, bing and sometimes in the news feed of facebook in nice format with star ratings, author photo, image, etc. see examples of rich snippets here. how does a rich snippet help? it gives search engines only the important & precise information to display in search result snippets. rich snippets are very interactive (photos, star ratings, price, author, etc.) to let you stand out from competition see what difference it makes in ctr (click through rate) helps you rank higher in search results helps facebook display proper information when users share your links on facebook > curious, how does this plugin work? supported content types – this plugin supports the following types of schemas: * review * event * people * product * recipe * software application * video * articles future release would include – breadcrumbs local business books want to contribute to the plugin? you may now contribute to the plugin on github: all in one schema.org rich snippets on github screenshots meta box in post-new under the editor screen. select content type from dropdown fill the details as much as you can test the post or page url in google rich snippets testing installation through dashboard go to plugins -> add new -> search for “all in one schema.org rich snippets” or upload the plugins zip file through ftp upload the plugin into wp-content/plugins directory activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress that’s it. now go and create a new post. there you will find a meta box, select the type of post from dropdown and fill out the details, publish the post. google will start showing rich snippets in the search results, as soon as your post is crawled. you can test the rich snippet on google webmasters rich snippets testing tool faq what is a rich snippet? it is basically a short summary of your page in the search results of google, yahoo, bing and sometimes in the news feed of facebook in nice format with star ratings, author photo, image, etc. how does a rich snippet help? it gives search engines only the important & precise information to display in search result snippets. rich snippets are very interactive (photos, star ratings, price, author, etc.) to let you stand out from competition see what difference it makes in ctr (click through rate) helps you rank higher in search results helps facebook display proper information when users share your links on facebook which content types are supported? this plugin currently supports almost all of the content types that are released by schema.org at one place. review, event, people, product, recipe, software application, video, articles etc. reviews scam – and they will never refund bluesman81 march 11, 2020 purchased the upgraded version and brainstorm is not giving refund although i qualify for it under their terms and conditions. true also for their schema pro plugin. they are nasty and stopped communicating completely. avoid! great plugin with good support jainpm1 february 26, 2020 great plugin without any issue and support is fantastic when there is a change in google algorithm!! thank you guys! failed my basic test jay holtslander february 11, 2020 styling was unusable out of the box with the twenty twenty theme. schema had 9 errors in google's test tool. uninstalled. useless! webily february 9, 2020 useless. the main goal of this plugin is to sell the pro version. it displays snippet details at the bottom of the page, instead of using the standard json format. good and easy to use nvme february 11, 2020 easy to use. excellent customer care. they responded really very well to all my queries. highly recommended. best rich snippet eeprom_one november 29, 2019 this plugin is the best undertanding google algorithms.. best direct support.. really good read all 153 reviews contributors & developers “schema – all in one schema rich snippets” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors brainstorm force “schema – all in one schema rich snippets” has been translated into 2 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “schema – all in one schema rich snippets” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.6.1 improvement – compatibility with the latest wordpress php_codesniffer rules. improvement – updated the schema url to the https instead of http. fix – tabs conflict with the astra theme. fix – image field is required error showing in the recipe schema. fix – remove the support for rating in the service schema as per the new google update. 1.6.0 new: added itemreviewed types in review schema. fix: error “thing is not a known valid target type for the item reviewed the property” in the review schema. 1.5.6 improvement: updated plugin name – all in one schema rich snippets to schema - all in one schema rich snippets. improvement: updated product availability strings according to the google requirement. improvement: added alt tag to the publisher image for semrush plugin compatibility. 1.5.5 fix: schema markup displayed before the post content or hidden when page content is built using a page builder plugin. 1.5.4 improvement: dashboard ui updated. fix: removed publisher logo width-height meta tags. fix: removed default border css for images in frontend. 1.5.3 improvement: updated schema exiting action and enqueue files function. 1.5.2 fix: frontend summary box structure validation issue. fix: editor object undefined issue lead js issue in the page. 1.5.1 fix: plugin outputting extra output causing ajax calls to break after last update. 1.5.0 improvement: improved overall the security of the plugin by using sanitization and escaping the attributes wherever possible, checking nounce and user capabilities before any actions are performed. fix: xss vulnerability in the settings page, thanks for the report neven biruski (defensecode). fix: missing closing div tag in the generated schema markup breaking style for some themes. fix: load the external scripts without protocol to prevent it from breaking on https sites. 1.4.4 fix: php fatal error to older version of php 1.4.3 fix: woocommerce support added 1.4.2 improvement: added company/organization and address in people schema. improvement: added nutrition & ingredients in recipe schema. improvement: added software image & operating system in software application schema. improvement: added video description in software application schema. improvement: added author, publisher – organization and publisher logo in article schema. improvement: added provider location, provider location image, and telephone in service schema. improvement: changes admin bar test rich snippet redirect link to the structured data testing tool. fix: removed all error in schema according to structured data testing tool. 1.4.1 fix: compatibility fix wordpress 4.7. 1.4.0 added new service schema minor css fixes 1.3.0 improvement: updated markup data to meet google structured data guidelines fixed: wordpress 4.4 compatibility fixed: admin ui on small screens 1.2.0 improvement: wordpress 4.0 compatibility fixed: colorpicker breaking other plugins colorpicker settings. 1.1.9 fixed: image uploading in meta issue resolved. fixed: compatibility with wordpress 3.9 1.1.8 fixed: css and js now loads on the page / post where rich snippets are configured. 1.1.7 improvement: added “test rich snippets” menu in admin bar for testing rich snippets in google webmasters tools fixed: retina.js issue resolved removed unnecessary code 1.1.6 improvement: compatibility with wordpres 3.8 fixed: admin css breaking tabs in wp 3.8 added – reference post url field in “contact developers” form on settings page 1.1.5 improvement: replaced rating ‘count’ with ‘votes’ on products – as directed by google fixed: article snippet not displaying accurate when snippet title is blank fixed: recipe string ‘published on’ can be changed. 1.1.4 fixed: illegal string offset user_rating warning 1.1.3 improvement : network activation 1.1.2 fixed: edit media functionality. 1.1.1 added: article type added: compatibility with woothemes plugins and themes added: new media manager for uploading images in metabox 1.1.0 added: admin options fixed: ratings on recipe, products and software application improvement: admin options for customizing everything improvement: new snippet box design with responsive layout 1.0.4 fixed: rating on comments fixed: on deleting any deactivated plugin fixed: error message comming on commenting fixed: on post save draft 1.0.3 clean up the code fixed: plugin activation error fixed: error on editing theme and plugin files. removed : breadcrumbs 1.0.2 added: rdfa breadcrumbs plugin is now a part of all in one schema.org rich snippets ! added: star rating and review for recipe fized: recipe type fixed: post update error 1.0.1 minor bugs fixes 1.0 initial release. meta version: 1.6.1 last updated: 4 weeks ago active installations: 90,000+ wordpress version: 3.7 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 languages: see all 3 close chinese (china), chinese (taiwan), and english (us). translate into your language tags: microdatarich snippetsschema markupschema.orgstructured data advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 103 4 stars 14 3 stars 5 2 stars 7 1 star 24 contributors brainstorm force support issues resolved in last two months: 3 out of 8 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.