instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "school" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: school rebecca 5 min read june 21, 2018 no reply graduating grade six. some feelings. as they grow, parenting you’ll notice that specific stories about my kids aren’t frequent on this blog. there are, of course, stories about our family adventures, activities to do with the kids, and definitely stories about my feelings as a mom, but the anecdotal stories about my two kids aren’t readily given. that’s always been a bit about how this blog has been, because we decide to keep a lot of their actions at a bit of a distance. that doesn’t mean i haven’t been sharing how i feel as they grow. those are the stories i relay often. we hit another family milestone today and it’s worth a blog post. because for many of you, who have been reading this blog since my daughter was a baby and i was at home with her and my toddler son, you’ll understand why i’m all about the feelings today. many of you are probably at the same stage. today we went to the school to celebrate the end of the school year, and his graduation from grade 6 into grade 7, which also happens to mean he’s leaving our current school for another. phew. that’s a lot right? it must be a lot because i had many lovely messages from people asking me how i was feeling. i’m feeling a lot. and it’s one other reason why i wanted to share this with you. because i’ve written about these feelings many, many times before. there have been many milestones that have sent me to my keyboard. like when i wrote about how i was feeling before preschool began. “i am a mess. i wish i could say a hot mess, but i don’t think i’m even that. just a mess.” or when i felt better after his first day: “‘wait!’ i said. ‘mommy wants a kiss!’. he dutifully came over and kissed me goodbye, the same for daddy. we said we’d be back soon. he walked holding the teacher’s hand into the classroom, and as i stared at him he didn’t even look back. i made it to the van before i cried.” and you may remember when after a few months of preschool drop off was suddenly difficult again: “parenting sucks. because no matter how much you try to protect your kids or give them a world of experience, you can stop a little broken heart. and you learn quickly your heart is forever tied to that little heart and you will always feel their pain, on top of your own.” and after some tricky transitions in kindergarten, when drop off still didn’t go smoothly, i wrote about some tips i had learned. ” there were some days that i left him at the teacher’s side with tears in his eyes. other days were fine. other days we both were crying. this went on for weeks, and just when we thought we had a good routine, an extended weekend would happen and starting over was tricky. but we did it. he did it. and we had many many successful days. i do have a few tricks that i’ve learned to help our little ones transition whether it’s the start of preschool or kindergarten.” i’ve always had many feelings about school. there were plenty of stories and experiences in between those years that we have muddled through, as best we can, with his interests at heart. that’s what parenting is – one day at a time, a new experience every day, but each decision is one made with love. today, i couldn’t help but reflect on all of his school experiences over the past many years. i’ve shared before how grateful i am to have had so many teachers and administrators who have been so kind and gentle with him, but push him when needed because he has so much potential. he’s also had some wonderful friends around him that are lovely young people and who i look to when the world seems so distressed – because if these students are our future, i feel much more hope. i do want to share how proud i am of him, of the leadership he’s shown, of his public speaking abilities, how jealous i am that he can make a google slide show presentation look a thousand times better than when i try to do one. i want to share that he may be a quiet soul but inside him burns a hunger for knowledge and meaning and that’s the fire i want him to bring into this world. today my eldest celebrated his grade 6 year and is preparing to go to grade 7. while his school experience changes from year to year, i hope he continues to grow, learn and push himself to be the best person he wants to be. because to us, he’s everything. so yes. grade 6 leaving ceremony. i am feeling a lot. rebecca 3 min read september 8, 2016 no reply lunch tips for little ones parenting, shopping if you have a preschooler or kindergarten aged child heading off to school for the first time this year, you’ll already understand when i say that it’s a big transition – for everyone. i remember when my kids went off for the first time. preschool was only a few hours a day, a couple days a week. even in kindergarten mine were still only in for a few hours a day. now, kids are often heading off for the full day which means that you are helping them learn to manage themselves in a way that may be new for everyone. eating lunch was one of the hardest transitions for my kids because not only does the time go by quicker than they expected (especially for my youngest who is a slow eater), but they sometimes didn’t realize the importance of eating the food that was sent. they would spend too much time talking to friends and forget to eat, or they didn’t feel hungry enough so didn’t fill up, not realizing that after lunch there was no additional snack time. they did, and still do, come home absolutely hungry. however, over the years, i’ve learned a few tricks to help them manage their time better at meal times at school, especially when they were younger. here are a few tips: 1- test out a container before you send it can they open it themselves? my son would likely not have asked for help and just skipped a snack that was trapped in a container he couldn’t open. this includes drink containers and thermos containers. i know you want to keep the food sealed, but if you close it too tight, they’ll likely need help. 2- encourage them to participate in the lunch making process whether they help by getting something out of the fridge, or by being more specific about what type of snack they want (ask questions like “which fruit today, strawberries or grapes?”) they’ll be comfortable with what’s in their lunch box. 3- more small bites as adults, we often eat a sandwich and one side and call it lunch. kids, especially little ones, seem to like to take a few bites of a variety of things. i think this is why the bento style lunch wave does so well with kids at school. lunch containers that again are easy to open but have the separate containers are helpful. have you seen the yumbox? i love these! you can find them at tag along toys online or in store. a video posted by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on sep 8, 2016 at 12:37pm pdt i found that it took a little while for both my kids to get into a lunch time or snack time routine when they first went to school. even now that they are older, they came home hungry since they didn’t have access to food at any moment of the day like in the summer! here’s hoping your little one is ready to open that lunch box up and gobble what they see! if not, my final tip: feed them immediately when they get home 😉 tag along toys is a blog advertiser. opinions are my own rebecca 1 min read september 6, 2016 no reply lunch containers that we love shopping i know, it’s not the most glamorous of topics, and as we just started packing school lunches (day 1, and i’m already over it), it’s kind of difficult to chat about lunch containers but i love our lunch containers! these are the reason why i don’t hate school lunches quite as much. i can pack anything in one of my handy containers. if you’ve been to terra20, you’ll have seen their huge selection of lunch containers for kids and adults. there is something for everyone – from bento style lunches, salad containers, hot/cold containers for soup and left overs and more. in this video, i share containers right from my messy kitchen drawer that have been well loved and well used over the years, plus, a couple new ones that are looking really great! a few containers that i mention: lunchbots goodbyn onyx disclosure: terra20 is a blog advertiser; all opinions are my own. rebecca 3 min read june 30, 2016 1 reply what to do at the end of the school year to stay organized home so here’s the truth: staying organized when it comes to school paper work is not easy. or my office paper work. it’s just all piles. i’m working on getting the ‘office’ in order, but this year i was actually a lot better about the school stuff. i put some systems in place with ht ekids, mostly out of necessity. i created the homework/school nook for the family and that has really been helpful. it holds book bags and school to-dos and i have access to the upcoming calendars that i need. i also created file folders for the kids documents. where i went wrong was not separating ‘keep’ items and ‘i don’t care about this math test’ items along the way, but the good news is that it’s all in one spot. we had a white board to mark down important dates and use magnets to hold stuff we wanted to see and action. now that the summer is here, i have more stuff than ever from the school to deal with. some filing (recycling) i’ve been doing all year long. but here’s how i am going to stay on top of it now that the kids are home for the summer. how to get organized as the school year ends 1- paperwork gets sorted the last day of school. start right away when the kids come home with their papers, or with the pile you’ve been keeping in the school folders. ditch basically everything but i like to keep creative writing stories, or art that represents their year and age well. 2- sort through the pencil cases old school markers and pencil crayons get sorted right away here. i’ve been doing this for a couple years and i find it really helps. if they are dry or dead, they get ditched. if they work well, they go into the family marker container – we have multiple ones. each kid gets colouring items for their bedroom desks, i keep some in my travelling craft bag for when we visit cousins, and the main floor always has some handy. 3- book bags and lunch containers get cleaned, and stored away after we clean out the book bags and lunch containers they immediately go in a closet. we don’t use the book bags over the summer (we have other bags to travel with) and the lunch bags can be stored in the kitchen for travelling, but otherwise, get them away and ignore them until september! if you are going to need a new one for the fall, keep an eye out to purchase. that’s it. the school year is done so now i get to organize all this paper and hopefully keep on top of it next year. hopefully 😉 happy summer! rebecca 1 min read june 25, 2015 2 replies to my children’s teachers as they grow, parenting despite my eternal excitement in june that the school year is coming to a close, it is usually for no other reason than the fact that i am excited to begin summer with the kids. i am ready to break free from the shackles of the school bell and school lunches and enjoy our time together. each weekday i send my kids to school, a school they enjoy (for the most part), and i leave them in the care of the teachers who help guide them as they navigate their way through learning and socializing. school isn’t always easy, for us or our kids, but having teachers that care matters to parents. there are times when i consider alternative education methods, and question the education system in general. we may not always see eye-to-eye on every issue involving my kids, but we usually can work together for their benefit. to my children’s teachers: for every note that comes home at the beginning of the week outlining the week’s agenda. for every email sent highlighting the class events, fun activities and learning plan to keep parents informed. for every field trip. for every club. for every special event. for every bandaid. for every hug. for every phone call to discuss something of importance. for every time we’re told about something going well; or something not. for their smiles at the end of the day. for understanding that they don’t have to be smiling all the time. for letting them be themselves. for working with us to help them. for working with them to help themselves. for caring about my children. thank you. rebecca 6 min read september 12, 2013 no reply tips to help with school transition parenting even though it’s been more than a week for many students going back to school, the fact is that the transition doesn’t always only take a few days. sometimes it can take weeks or months. i know this from experience. while my daughter is having no issues being dropped off for jk, my son a number of years ago was a different story. there were some days that i left him at the teacher’s side with tears in his eyes. other days were fine. other days we both were crying. this went on for weeks, and just when we thought we had a good routine, an extended weekend would happen and starting over was tricky. but we did it. he did it. and we had many many successful days. i do have a few tricks that i’ve learned to help our little ones transition whether it’s the start of preschool or kindergarten. 1- be excited for them – and show it! it’s tough to do, but even though each year i’m all ‘down with school’, i try to only talk up the positive points in front of the kids. i don’t want my stresses or worries to be projected. when my son started school, i spoke to him about the excitement that would happen, not the worries i had. it is ok to acknowledge what everyone is feeling. that you will miss each other, that these feelings are perfectly normal for the kiddos and for mom and dad and so on. a few book recommendations that i’ve used: the kissing hand and llama llama misses mama. 2- talk about their day – but get some help it’s easy to want to know every detail about their time at school but usually the kids answer with ‘it was good’. or ‘we played’. my kids are most excited to talk about school on the drive home, so i pump as many questions as i can then, because once they are home they aren’t as forthcoming. but asking leading questions helps. instead of ‘how was your day?’, if you can ask ‘which centre did you like best?’ or ‘i heard you went to the library, how was that?’ you might pull more responses, which will lead to positive conversations and hopefully more encouragement to go the following days. to find out what is happening in the class you can often ask the teacher roughly what the week looks like (they would tell you on tuesday is library day, wednesday is gym time etc) or if your child is having a really hard transition, i’ve emailed or phoned teachers to get more specific day to day info to help guide my conversations. the more we chatted about likes, dislikes, worries etc. the more we were able to help alleviate his concerns. 3- try this, then that i used to bring my son early in jk so he got play time. then it just seemed to make the morning wait too long. his best days were the ones that he basically got there in time to line up. he had no time to worry about saying goodbye to me, or stress, so in he would go and the day was fine. i also noticed that on days when it wasn’t his teacher’s turn to have duty, he had a harder time. when she was in the yard, he was happy to go to her, otherwise, he wasn’t sure what the plan was. i had to have a back up plan for those days, either waiting with him longer, or suggesting a new teacher he could find. another thing that worked was when his teacher saw us arrive for drop off, she would personally walk over and help to bring him into the yard. i appreciated that! keep trying different things to see what might help. 4- find out some names my daughter describes kids in her class, if she doesn’t know their name, by their clothing. ‘i played with the boy in the red shirt’. that doesn’t help us drive conversation though, so when possible, remind them to get names or ask the teacher who they seem to be playing most with. in my son’s case, his preschool transition was made easier thanks to the kindness of two other boys in his class who would welcome him in the morning and invite him to play. in jk, i asked him who he seemed to enjoy playing with and once i had those couple of names, i encouraged him to go and see them first thing in the morning or find one of them at a centre which helped relax him. i also arranged play dates outside of school with kids he seemed to enjoy playing with most. and finally a few tips for you, dear parent. this is a big transition for everyone. you and your child are allowed to feel many things. click to tweet don’t worry if you are the only one with the sad child at drop off. or the only one waiting to watch them all go in, or the only one at home feeling sad about this time. i’ve been there. it gets better and easier for everyone. a quick tip? keep busy these first few weeks. i was the worse when sitting at home in silence. i’ve been keeping busy with friends and errands and coffee dates. once you find your new groove, and see how happy your child is, the transition will be easy as pie. remember that each child is different (as my own kids have shown me) and that sometimes, it just takes time. and chances are, once you leave at drop off they will really love school! facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.