got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos love line featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... scott disick & sofia richie — a timeline of their love story home › sofia richie › scott disick & sofia richie — a timeline of their love story a 15-year age gap can’t hold back these love birds! scott disick and sofia richie recently celebrated two years together, so anyone with doubts that the 36-year-old and 21-year-old wouldn’t stand the test of time can consider themself proven wrong. related: kourtney says she’s ‘most proud of’ her relationship with scott & sofia let’s take a stroll down memory lane and reminisce on the love story of scott and sofia! contents 1 pre-relationship 2 the early days 3 split rumors 4 lovey dovey 5 three’s a crowd 6 taking the next step pre-relationship before we can get into their love story, there is a lot that led up to them becoming more than friends. for starters, disick was in an on-again off-again relationship with kourtney kardashian from 2006 to 2015, and in that time fathered three kids: mason, penelope, and reign disick. view this post on instagram ello govna a post shared by scott disick (@letthelordbewithyou) on oct 2, 2019 at 9:29pm pdt despite their age difference, the two have actually known each other for longer than you might think. kylie jenner and miz richie are about the same age, and have been friends for quite some time, which is likely how the two were initially introduced. furthermore, you could make the connection between kim kardashian west and her friendship with sofia’s older sister, nicole richie. the early days the two were first linked in may 2017 when they were spotted getting flirty on a yacht in the south of france, but lionel richie‘s daughter was not amused by the early dating rumors. in a now-deleted tweet, she wrote: “just so everyone can get their panties out of their asses, scott and i are just homies #relax.” that didn’t last long! it wasn’t until september when confirmation came via the first photos of the new couple hand in hand in miami, and later packing on the pda over a celebratory dinner. it was a dessert plate which read “congratulations scott and sofia [sic]” which seemed to confirm the official start to their relationship: the question is congratulations to what @sofiarichie and @scottdisick 🤷‍♀️ pic.twitter.com/w6rfgtf0wg — .hailo (@hailobieber) september 24, 2017 but we all know it’s not real until it’s on social media! they became instagram official on october 2 with the first photo shared to sof’s ig: view this post on instagram 🌱 a post shared by sofia richie (@sofiarichie) on oct 2, 2017 at 4:10pm pdt split rumors it wasn’t too long before split rumors surfaced after scott was reportedly caught getting cozy with women while vacationing in miami and attending kanye west‘s listening party in wyoming in late may 2018. view this post on instagram happy birthday babe! thank you for being you. a post shared by sofia richie (@sofiarichie) on may 26, 2018 at 2:27pm pdt however, it wasn’t long before things were seemingly back on as the couple were spotted out together in june, and the 19-year-old made things crystal clear they were still together by sharing on her ig story to “never believe the internet.” lovey dovey we got a little more insight into their relationship one year in when the then 20-year-old sat down with australia’s sydney morning herald, sharing: “we are very happy, very lovey dovey. we are best friends and that is mainly the strongest connection we have. we have always had that best friend connection and from there it has really worked out. i am so happy.” her candor was super surprising, considering this interview came days after a demand went public that she be asked no questions about him in australia, and a very awkward live interview where she danced around discussing her beau. view this post on instagram my kind of off roading a post shared by sofia richie (@sofiarichie) on dec 14, 2018 at 4:27am pst three’s a crowd scott made sure all of his leading ladies were included on a pre-christmas vacation, bringing along his three kids, gf, and ex-gf to cabo san lucas. per the lord himself, and kourt in a later episode of kuwtk, things were not awkward at all! though we’re still interested in hearing about the sleeping arrangements… view this post on instagram what more can a guy ask for. three’s company a post shared by scott disick (@letthelordbewithyou) on dec 23, 2018 at 6:44pm pst khloé kardashian made sure to shower her big sis with praise once the image went viral, tweeting out her support: “beyond proud of all of them!!!! this is love!! your children before anything else!! all amazing adults right right!!!” while chatting with kris jenner, who was openly confused about the group getaway, the poosh founder explained: “he was gonna take them [their three children] anyways. so i’m like, do i want to go and experience it with them? or do i want to stay home? i get fomo so i’m like, i don’t want to miss out on this with my kids.” a modern family! just a few months later, the gang of six took a trip to finland in honor of kourt’s 40th birthday. we hope all the sleeping arrangements and possible awkwardness was worked out the second time around! taking the next step the couple’s relationship (obviously) has plenty of people wondering when scott will pop the question. for the model’s 21st birthday, he gifted her a new set of wheels, but no ring in sight. considering he and kourtney were together for the better part of 11 years and never tied the knot, it’s unclear whether or not mr. disick ever wants to get hitched. one step he may be willing to make? moving in together! on the season finale of flip it like disick, the couple discussed the possibility of buying a home in malibu. the conversation began after richie noted his current hidden hills pad “looked like a bachelor pad,” and that it “would be fun” to move into a fresh place so she could add personal “touches on things.” in his confessional, the father of three got real about his feelings for his girlfriend, and the next steps he’s willing to take: “i think it’s hard anywhere to find somebody that you can be comfortable with, and, the truth was, without her, i was always looking for somebody or something. [sofia’s] definitely been that little piece that’s calmed me down and made me a better man, and made things easier in my life.” view this post on instagram 💞 a post shared by sofia richie (@sofiarichie) on sep 21, 2019 at 6:08pm pdt for now, it seems like these two are content as is, and very much in love! what do u think the future holds for these two, perezcious readers? sound off (below) in the comments and let us know!! [image via sofia richie/instagram.] related posts sofia richie shares the secret to getting along with scott disick’s ex kourtney kardashian do i owe tori spelling an apology? meghan & harry throw shade at the queen! jake paul vs zayn! and… | perez hilton lionel richie wants daughter sofia to fail — here’s why! scott disick & sofia richie ‘constantly split up & get back together’! click click click next article next article oct 31, 2019 6:17am pdt share this categories disick babies kanye west kim kardashian kourtney kardashian kris jenner kuwtk kylie jenner love line nicole richie parenting perezcious parenting scott disick sofia richie view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy