skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / css almanac / properties / s / scroll-snap-align scroll-snap-align author andy adams comments go to comments last updated jun 18, 2019 personalized marketing with mailchimp scroll-snap-align is part of the css scroll snap module. scroll snapping refers to "locking" the position of the viewport to specific elements on the page as the window (or a scrollable container) is scrolled. think of a scroll-snapping container like putting a magnet on top of an element that sticks to the top of the viewport and forces the page to stop scrolling right there. scroll-snap-align is a required property for a scroll-snapping element within a scroll-snapping container. for more information on scroll-snapping containers see the scroll-snap-type almanac entry. scroll-snap-align tells the browser which part of an element should be aligned when a snap point is encountered: should the element snap to the start, center , or end of the parent container that contains the scroll-snap-type property? if you want an element to snap into place at the start of that element, give it a scroll-snap-align value like so: /* assuming this element is a child of a container with `scroll-snap-type` set */
.element {
  scroll-snap-align: start;
} syntax scroll-snap-align: [ none | start | end | center ]{1,2} you can specify up to 2 values for this property, representing the block and inline axes, respectively. if you only give 1 value, that value will be used for both axes. values scroll-snap-align accepts the following values: none disables scroll snapping on the element start aligns the element's start with the scroll container's snapport when snapped into place end aligns the element's end with the scroll container's snapport when snapped into place center aligns the element's center with the scroll container's snapport when snapped into place example see the pen scroll-snap-align example by chris coyier (@chriscoyier) on codepen. browser support this browser support data is from caniuse, which has more detail. a number indicates that browser supports the feature at that version and up. desktop chrome firefox ie edge safari 69 68 11* 79 11 mobile / tablet android chrome android firefox android ios safari 80 68 80 11.0-11.2 related scroll-snap-type scroll-margin scroll-padding scroll-snap-stop resources css scroll snap w3c candidate recommendation practical css scroll snapping introducing css scroll snap points our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. this comment thread is closed. if you have important information to share, please contact us. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers