skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation home / css almanac / properties / s / scroll-snap-type scroll-snap-type author andy adams comments go to comments last updated may 29, 2019 personalized marketing with mailchimp the scroll-snap-type property is part of the css scroll snap module. scroll snapping refers to "locking" the position of the viewport to specific elements on the page as the window (or a scrollable container) is scrolled. think of it like putting a magnet on top of an element that sticks to the top of the viewport and forces the page to stop scrolling right there. this is useful if you want to stop the browser at specific points on the page. for example: a user browsing a photo gallery probably doesn't want to scroll halfway past an image — they'd likely prefer to have the image "snap" to the right position as they scroll. scroll snapping gives developers a pure-css way to handle this behavior. scroll-snap-type is a required property on any scrollable container you want to add scroll snapping to. it answers three questions for a scroll container: does the container use scroll snapping? on which axis — x (horizontal), y (vertical), block, or inline — should scroll snapping apply? how should scroll snapping behave? is it forced 100% of the time, or does it take effect only when the user gets "close enough" to a snap position? more on this later. .scroll-container {
  /* always force (mandatory) scrolling to a snap point on the y-axis */
  scroll-snap-type: y mandatory;
} syntax scroll-snap-type: none | [ x | y | block | inline | both ] [ mandatory | proximity ] values scroll-snap-type accepts the following values: none disables scroll snapping. x enables scroll snapping along the x-axis only. y enables scroll snapping along the y-axis only. block enables scroll snapping along the block-axis only. inline enables scroll snapping along the inline-axis only. both enables scroll snapping along both axes (which you can think of as x and y, or inline and block. mandatory is a strictness value which tells the browser to always go to a snap position when there isn't scrolling happening. proximity is a strictness value which tells the browser to go to a snap position if a scrolling action gets pretty close to a snap position. if it's not pretty close, then the browser shouldn't snap and scrolling will behave normally. example see the pen scroll-snap-type example by css-tricks (@css-tricks) on codepen. browser support this browser support data is from caniuse, which has more detail. a number indicates that browser supports the feature at that version and up. desktop chrome firefox ie edge safari 69 68 11* 79 11 mobile / tablet android chrome android firefox android ios safari 80 68 80 11.0-11.2 related scroll-padding scroll-margin scroll-snap-align scroll-snap-stop resources css scroll snap w3c candidate recommendation practical css scroll snapping introducing css scroll snap points our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. this comment thread is closed. if you have important information to share, please contact us. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers