skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download search & filter by designs & code details reviews installation support development description search & filter is a simple search and filtering plugin for wordpress – it is an advancement of the wordpress search box. you can search by category, tag, custom taxonomy, post type, post date or any combination of these easily to really refine your searches – remove the search box and use it as a filtering system for your posts and pages. fields can be displayed as dropdowns, checkboxes, radio buttons or multi selects. links: search & filter documentation | search & filter discussion new: search & filter pro view live demo >> demo 1 | demo 2 | video search custom fields, post meta, authors, post types, post dates, taxonomies, tags, categories use ajax to display results – no more page reloading! search post meta/custom fields with checkboxes, radio buttons, dropdowns, multiselects or comboboxes jquery range slider, date pickers and auto-complete comboboxes for selects and multiselects order results field – users can order results by meta value, post id, author, title, name, date, date modified, parent id, random, comment count and menu order drag & drop editor use custom templates create as many fields and different search forms as you like use for blogs, reviews sites, news sites, property sites and more. use for your online shop – tested and compatible with woocommerce, wp ecommerce, easy digital downloads place anywhere in your themes and posts using shortcodes and widgets works with wpml works with advanced custom fields extremely easy to use admin ui, fully integrated with wp 3.8+ dedicated support more info >> screenshots full example of search & filter when used in a widget and with a combination of checkboxes, radio buttons and selects minimal example of search & filter embedded in the header minimal example of search & filter embedded in a widget example of search & filter using a post type filter installation upload the entire search-filter folder to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory. activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress. you will find ‘search & filter’ menu in your wordpress admin panel. for basic usage, you can also have a look at the plugin homepage or refer to the search & filter menu in your wordpress admin panel. faq how can i xxxxx ? the documentation has been updated to include examples almost all configurable options with screenshots – please refer to the search & filter docs. reviews good functionality, poor code netaction march 11, 2020 the plugin throws warning messages that are documented in the issue tracker for years. https://wordpress.org/support/topic/warning-count-parameter-must-be-an-array-or-an-object-that-implements-2/ powerful, easy to use, & well-documented ashleycam3ron february 25, 2020 thank you for creating such a powerful and useful plugin that's very well organized and documented and works wonderfully. amazing plugin! tjldesigns february 9, 2020 fantastic plugin, we use it on all sites! any reviews which suggest it doesn't work can only be down to lack of technical ability to implement or requires an obscure piece of functionality because honestly it works amazingly well, and we have integrated it on some pretty complex sites and had to customise some elements, and it's very versatile. not only that the support is absolutely fantastic! thank you!! works ok, but documentation, support lacking cudak888 january 12, 2020 this plugin seems to have some good potential, and it works fairly well if you want to filter the usual wordpress post types without getting fancy with it. that's not to say that it does everything that it says it does. not intuitively, at least. the plugin works off a shortcode where you list the fields and options for each field. in my case, i needed a filter that could work from custom field names. according to the description here at wordpress, filtering custom fields are possible - but it is not obvious what you need to put into the shortcode to get it to do so. unfortunately, the documentation (whether on the online version or in the copy-and-pasted version that they've baked right into the wp admin panel) does not cover anything regarding the plugin's use of custom field names. additionally, in my testing, not once did ajax appear to kick in. submit button had to be used each time, and it'd reload the page. maybe it works for some developers, but this plugin wasn't what i read on the tin. approach accordingly. p.s.: for anyone who wishes to criticize me for leaving a three star review before reaching out to the developers, that's another thing: have you seen how many posts in the support thread have been ignored? why should i waste my time for an obvious result? great but need help. yusuf90s january 2, 2020 good app, thanks. also i need help, i just wanna show "year" in post date? how can i do ? great app smksiteo january 2, 2020 this app is great and do what we need, thx. i would like to know how to add accessibility to my form. i want to add label or aria-label to my elements in my form. thank you for your help. read all 132 reviews contributors & developers “search & filter” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors designsandcode translate “search & filter” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.2.12 fixed – some php warnings when using radio, checkbox and multiselects fixed – a typo (thanks sunjunkie) tested with wp 5.3 1.2.11 fixed – a few typos in the admin screen tested with wp 5.0 rc2 1.2.10 fixed – an issue with our syntax highlighting script modifying our shortcodes 1.2.9 fixed – bugs with wp 4.4 compatibility fixed – an issue with operators being case sensitive – they are no longer case sensitive 1.2.8 fixed – an issue with rewrites – thanks @iohannis 1.2.7 fixed – fix for new taxonomy rewrites and problems with multiple selection when using checkboxes fixed – added previously hidden multiselect field type 1.2.6 fixed – compatibility issues with wp 4.2.x 1.2.5 fixed a php error when setting defaults for taxonomies – many users did not see this but resulted in unexpected behaviour fixed an error with post date sometimes being undefined for blank searches added argument empty_search_url – when a users submits the search form without any search preferences selected they will be redirected to this url updated argument add_search_param – setting to 1 will force add a “?s=” to all urls generate by the plugin – this may help with the loading of search templates in some themes 1.2.4 fixed a bug created in 1.2.3 when doing an empty search 1.2.3 added arguement all_items_labels which allows for support for custom all_items labels in taxonomies, categories, post tags and post types when using select and radio types – the default text displaying “all categories” for example can now be defined using all_items_labels added show_count to arguments – this shows how many posts are in a particular term, in brackets after the term name – works only for categories, tags and taxonomies fixed a bug when using when using “all post types” and it displaying no results reverted behaviour from 1.2.2 – no longer force load search template when search is blank – let wp handle it again added argument add_search_param – setting it to 1 will force a “?s=” or “&s=” to be added to the url even when the search is blank – in some circumstances this will force load the search template, instead of other wp templates, such as taxonomy or category templates 1.2.2 added support for multi selects – use multiselect as the type for your field added support for and & or operators when using checkboxes or multiselects – use the operators argument with allowed values of and & or force load search template when search is blank, don’t include when search field is not included in shortcode fixed an issue with navigation disappearing when using post_types 1.2.1 version bump – bad commit 1.2.0 warning – this update includes some major changes to shortcode construction, do not upgrade until you have read how this will affect your setup – updating should be easy. renamed the taxonomies argument to fields – taxonomies is now no longer appropriate as this list contains field types other than taxonomies – this list now contains taxonomies, post_type, post_date and search – taxonomies as an argument is still supported however will be deprecated search box can now be positioned anywhere, simply include search in the fields list in the position desired. upgrading from previous versions will cause you to lose your search box, simply include search in the fields list to show it again drop support for search argument as no longer relevant – control display of search input by adding it to the fields list labels have been completely rewritten – label has been renamed to headings to avoid confusion with internal taxonomy labels – the headings argument now allows for any text to be added and displayed as a heading for each field – this allows for much more flexibility and no longer uses internal taxonomy labels – to hide a label simply leave blank added support for hierarchical taxonomies for all input types – checkbox, radio & select added support for ordering of taxonomies – use order_by argument – allowed values are id, name, slug, count, term_group added support for ordering direction of taxonomies – use order_dir argument – allowed values are ‘asc’ or ‘desc’ added support to show or hide empty taxonomies – use hide_empty argument added support for search_placeholder updated post_date functionality to work with older versions of wp – can be displayed either as date or daterange – the post_date field uses the html 5 input type of date – browsers that do not support it will simply show a text box – a tutorial of integrating jquery for graceful degredation is in the works renamed submitlabel to submit_label – submitlabel still works for now. renamed type to types – type still works for now. updated display of checkboxes and radio buttons, inputs are now wrapped in an unordered list which may affect your styling various bug fixes thanks to bradaric for help with hierarchical dropdown lists and date input types – https://github.com/bradaric 1.1.3 added support for post_date to be displayed either as date or daterange (wp 3.7+) type 1.1.2 added support for all public and custom post types (the attachment post type is excluded) – all post types can be user searchable or predfined and hidden from the user. this allows for users to add multiple search widgets to their site which work on specific post types independantly from eachother. added offical updated documentation, created and moved to search & filter docs 1.1.1 fixed: when submitting an empty search/filter, “?s=” now gets appended to the url (an empty search) to force load a results page, previously this was redirecting to the homepage which does not work for many use cases 1.1.0 added support for checkboxes and radio buttons, with the option to control this for each individual taxonomy. added support to show or hide headings for each individual taxonomy. added support to pass a class name through to search & filter widgets, this allows styling of different instances of search & filter fixed problems with escaping output in search box notice: this update will automatically add headings to taxonomy dropdowns, refer to usage and examples on how to disable them. 1.0.3 added some documention & screenshots to plugin page 1.0.2 version bump for wordpress plugins site 1.0.1 updated to use label->all_items in taxonomy object for dropdowns before using label->name notice: this update may cause some labels to break, ensure you have set up your taxonomy properly including setting label->all_items 1.0.0 initial release meta version: 1.2.12 last updated: 2 days ago active installations: 40,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 tags: categoryfilterpost typesearchtaxonomy advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 119 4 stars 3 3 stars 2 2 stars 4 1 star 4 contributors designsandcode support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 21 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.