home stirring stories recipes bars & restaurants videos shop about search for: homemartinista2018-10-24t20:10:14+00:00 loading... the finest writing under the influence read gehan's stirring stories here shaken or stirred? martini mandate's recipes for the perfect mix tales from a traveller musings from the best bars and restaurants around the world tales of africa – accidents, mermaids and elephant poo gin as regular readers know, i spend the month of january in south africa escaping the worst of the northern hemis ... merry christmas from martini mandate! my christmas story begins in a small town in pennsylvania. a group of men gather at the local playhouse late ... the most beautiful city in the world barely ten minutes after landing at marco polo airport in venice, i was swinging my bag onto a wooden hulled s ... vegetarians – an inconvenient truth red meat is good for you. a team of respected mathematicians examined the same research that some vegetarians ... a night in colombo it’s my first visit to colombo since the terrible easter sunday bombings. the nation has been here before - f ... i just want stuff to work! british airways flight 183 was taxiing for takeoff from london’s heathrow airport. it was 8pm and i was bound ... 12next load more posts twitter 6 refreshing twists on the italian aperitivo, the ultimate summertime cocktail - maxim maxim.com/food-drink/6-i… 9 months ago inside the deadliest cocktail in the world liquor.com/articles/hirez… 9 months ago the ramos gin fizz cocktail recipe liquor.com/recipes/ramos-… 9 months ago see all tweets instagram instagram has returned invalid data. see all instagram photos subscribe to our newsletter subscribe to get the best writing under the influence direct to your inbox. terms & privacy a man must defend his home, his wife, his children, and his martini. jackie gleason he knows just how i like my martini – full of alcohol. homer simpson one martini is all right. two are too many, and three are not enough. james thurber i had never tasted anything so cool and clean. they made me feel civilized. ernest hemingway happiness is…finding two olives in your martini when you’re hungry johnny carson i like to have a martini, two at the very most –after three i’m under the table, after four, i’m under my host. dorothy parker if it wasn’t for the olives in his martinis he’d starve to death. milton berle shaken, not stirred. james bond i never go jogging, it makes me spill my martini. george burns © copyright martini mandate | terms & privacy | returns | delivery