managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods 0 sign in english русский deutsch français română български español português italiano polski slovenský українська türkçe 日本語 हिंदी bahasa indonesia 简体中文 繁體中文 tiếng việt فارسی managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods what is secondary dns? the secondary dns provides a way to distribute the dns traffic for a domain name to two or more dns providers for the best possible uptime and redundancy in very easy and friendly way. you can manage the dns records of the domain name only at single (primary dns) provider and the second provider using the secondary dns technology can be kept up to date and synchronized automatically. benefits from using secondary dns service some of the main benefits of setting a secondary dns include: 100% uptime: if the primary dns provider becomes unavailable, the dns traffic will automatically be served by the secondary provider without any visible effects to the visitors of the web site. backup dns: the secondary dns can be used as backup plan, if something happens with the primary provider. you will have a fresh copy of all your dns records. provider independency: last few years the ddos attacks are growing in both frequency and severity. adding additional dns provider with secondary dns gives you better security and provider independency. additional security: if you manage own dns servers, you can secure them with secondary dns configuration with hidden master. cloudns will handle all the public traffic for you. easy migration from self hosted dns to managed anycast dns: if you manage your own dns servers, adding secondary dns is a fairly easy process. you can migrate to ddos protected and anycast dns transparently without any other changes of your management system, access and control panels. additional benefits of using cloudns’s secondary dns: cloud-based infrastructure: cloudns is designed to operate as cloud-based infrastructure service. our self-developed system for synchronization and data distribution allows you to monitor in real time the dns zones status at each location. with our service, you can add extra dns resources instantly at any time. ddos protection: in light of the recent rise of ddos attacks, it has become increasingly important for companies to have active protection. our self-developed protection for dns-based attacks is designed to mitigate any type of ddos attacks over multiple ddos protection facilities. our experts have broad experience in the new ddos mitigation technologies combined with long years partnership with the leading ddos mitigation companies. anycast dns: fastest possible dns responses to the end users and resolvers. real hardware, route monitoring and full dual stack network (ipv4 and ipv6) available at each pop. uptime guarantee: cloudns is the first dns provider to guarantee 10,000% uptime service legal agreement (sla). for every minute of downtime we will extend your account with hundred. guaranteed lowest prices: we guarantee the lowest prices in the industry. if you find a lower price for secondary dns service, we will instantly amend your agreement with the exact same price. 24/7 support: no matter what day, no matter when, we provide continuous, uninterrupted network monitoring and support. consider these top advantages and start using secondary dns. also remember that there are plenty of tutorials on our website on how to set up this process. how to configure secondary dns? video tutorial on how to add secondary dns zone how to setup a secondary dns zone with a hidden master server information about master and slave reverse zones documentation for secondary dns zone registration over the http api ddos protected m $11.95/month 75 dns zones 3,000 dns records unlimited dns queries per month secondary dns zones dnssec ddos protection for the dns service completely free trial. no credit cards required. no tricks. start free 30-day trial ddos protected s $5.95/month 25 dns zones 1,000 dns records unlimited dns queries per month secondary dns zones dnssec ddos protection for the dns service completely free trial. no credit cards required. no tricks. start free 30-day trial premium m $4.95/month 75 dns zones 3,500 dns records unlimited dns queries per month secondary dns zones dnssec completely free trial. no credit cards required. no tricks. start free 30-day trial premium s $2.95/month 25 dns zones 1,000 dns records 5m ? dns queries per month secondary dns zones dnssec completely free trial. no credit cards required. no tricks. start free 30-day trial need a custom quote? please write us at sales@cloudns.net for a custom quote, additional zones or set up of a branded dns service. company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers dns services premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover reverse dns secondary dns dynamic dns dnssec enum dns zones services managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns private dns servers domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module hostbill module domain parking payment methods partnership affiliate program resellers api registrant educational materials registrant benefits and responsibilities whois social connection terms of service | privacy policy ©2020 cloudns all prices are final and include all required taxes. no other hidden charges! online - live chat cookies help us deliver our services. by using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. learn more okay