connect: home reviews editorials & press ed tech links ed tech sites ed tech apps > presentation tools web design tools organization tools mobile apps lesson plans elementary secondary former weekly podcast about me contact secondary lesson plans for technology integration [ please send us your experiences and feedback! ] mozilla web literacy lessons mozilla has put together an education kit which provides an overview of their free, remixable, and easy-to-use resources for immediate use to teach the web. plus, you can also visit teach.mozilla.org for more activities, tools, and to sign up to receive updates about upcoming trainings, events and more. they've got an awesome collection of resources for teachers looking to incorporate web literacy skills. statistics in schools the us census bureau has put together a program entitled statistics in schools which is designed to help teachers integrate us census data into classroom activities. they've got a great collection of both history and math activities ready to be implemented. you can also use their data access tools to find great collections of data to practice analyzing and graphing in your classroom as well. the basics of citations (mla, includes social media) this assignment teaches students about the basics of mla citations. it covers books, online articles, blogs, youtube videos, emails, facebook posts, and even tweets. the students are provided with examples and then asked to create their own. i also recommend using easybib in the assignment, a great site for generating citations. [ lesson download link ] aurasma student guide this guide will help students get started with aurasma in the classroom. if you're not familiar with aurasma, it is a mobile app that can be used to create an augmented reality pop-up. basically, you scan a picture with a device, and a student-made video pops up. you can get a better idea of the application by checking out this prezi. [ lesson download link ] office and google drive tutorials from in pictures if you're looking for simple, easy to follow, picture-based tutorials for microsoft's office suite, or google drive apps (docs, sheets, and slides), i definitely recommend checking out in pictures. they have a great collection of guides which also includes older versions of office as well. this is a great resource for teachers and students alike, especially if you're not a computer science teacher but want your students to have some help with any of these resources. analyzing a lebron dunk using decomposition & motion graphs eli sheldon is a computational thinking program manager for a charter school outside of seattle and he was kind enough to share his lesson on analyzing a lebron dunk using decomposition and motion graphs. for those looking for a real world application of data analysis and visualization, this is a great activity! you can find out more on his site, including the download links for an associated presentation and worksheet. excel tutorials from excel easy if you're looking for free, high quality excel tutorials that cover everything from the basics to some pretty advanced topics, including over 300 examples, i'd recommend checking out excel easy. they have a great collection of resources over an incredibly large variety of topics, including visual basic for applications and tons of relevant, easy to follow examples. olympics in excel report this assignment asks student to do a little data collecting, graphing, and minor analysis. it's great for students beginning in excel. students choose 10 countries and look at their medal counts from the recent sochi olympics. then, the students graph that information and create a short report in microsoft word or powerpoint using the information they found. it is designed to take two or three 40-minute classes. [ lesson download link ] creating an invitation to an historical event with smore this assignment asks students to create an invitation/flyer to an historical event using the free web-app, smore. students will need to write a summary of the event as well as create short bibliographies about the major "characters" from the event. they will also include links to more information, videos, and images. for 6th-8th grade. [ lesson download link ] animating a novel in go! animate or domo animate this assignment is a week-long animation project using go! animate or domo animate (both are free). students (working alone or in partners) will create an animation based on a novel they have previously read. their animation will include paraphrasing, favorite quotations, and personal reactions. great for a middle or high school language arts class. for a similar activity in history, see "domo on historical figures" below. [ lesson download link ] creating a school newspaper with publisher and issuu this assignment is a 1-2 week project for computers, language arts, and/or journalism class where students create a school newspaper in publisher and then upload their magazine to issuu to create an online version. for the newspaper, the students will conduct an interview, create a survey, and write several articles. it is best for 7th and 8th grade students, particularly those that have some familiarity with publisher. [ lesson download link ] pbl lesson on digital citizenship and online safety this assignment is a 3-4 week long pbl lesson that asks students to research digital citizenship and online safety in their own school and in schools around the world. students create blogs, design surveys, and analyze results. for their culminating project, student groups develop a school-wide improvement plan to help students become better digital citizens. designed for a computer technology class. [ pbl lesson link ] you can also view a remixed version of this lesson created by media & technology teacher, kathleen weil. she made some excellent improvements to this lesson in order to have it be more suited to her students' needs. prezi book report this assignment uses prezi.com to create an online presentation. probably best for the middle school level, this assignment asks students to discuss the plot, settings, characters, and their personal reaction to a novel. if you've never used prezi before, you can find a series of videos on their website explaining the program. [ lesson download link ] timeglider timeline this assignment uses timeglider.com to create an interactive timeline. if you've never used timeglider, here's a tutorial, it's a little outdated, but everything still works similarly. this program can be used to create timelines with embedded links, images, audio, and video. in this assignment the students create a timeline over the history of technology, but it could be easily modified for use with another subject. [ lesson download link ] country webpage report in wix this assignment uses wix.com to help students create a webpage report about a country. this project is designed for a history or social studies class, but could be easily modified to fit an english, science or math curriculum. wix's drag-and-drop interface is incredibly easy to use and students generally have very little trouble learning to use the program. [ lesson download link ] domo animate on historical figures this assignment uses domo animate to help students create an animation about an historical figure. if you've never used domo before, here's a tutorial. domo animate is incredibly user/kid friendly and most students have little trouble figuring it out. one feature i really like is that when students try to write profanity or innapropriate language, domo just blocks it out ($#!% style). plus, you're not allowed to upload your own audio or images, so you never have to worry about inappropriate content. [ lesson download link ] online magazine with publisher and issuu this assignment guides students through the process of creating their own magazine in microsoft publisher and then publishing it online through issuu. the topic of the magazine is up to the students in this lesson, but could be modified to fit the curriculum of an english or social studies class pretty easily. [ lesson download link ] [ online publishing guide ] creating a blog with weebly this assignment guides students through the creation of their own blog on weebly.com in this introductory assignment students create a short blog about their interests and hobbies, but it could be modified to cover any range of subjects. weebly is a great site for designing blogs and has an easy to understand interface. [ lesson download link ] excel basics this assignment introduces upper-elementary students the basics of microsoft excel. it's a 4 part series which teaches students the basic vocabulary and functions that are available within the program. each section takes 30-40 minutes for students to complete. - part 1 - part 2 - part 3 - part 4 figuring foods excel assignment this assignment in excel is designed to give junior high students a closer look at what's in their favorite foods, perfect for a science or health class. students create a table comparing 7 different foods. then, they graph their data and write a report about their findings. in total, this project takes students 60-80 minutes to complete. [ lesson download link ] timeline creation in excel this assignment in excel shows students how to create a timeline using the program. in this project, they create a timeline about their daily schedule, but it could easily be modified for any subject: a history timeline, a series of lab steps, a timeline for a novel, and so on. the sample timeline takes about 40 minutes to make and would be appropriate for junior high or high school students. [ lesson download link ] except where noted, content on this site is licensed under a creative commons attribution 3.0 license copyright 2019 | michael karlin