start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising technology advertising secure your internet privacy with this guide jordan fried read full profile share pin it tweet share email there’s a lot of talk these days about internet privacy and online security. with over two billion people accessing the internet on a regular basis, it’s about time you started protecting yourself! so, i figured i’d put together a little guide to some of the most popular security precautions and privacy measures available to you online. in this easy-to-follow guide i’ll show you how to make your internet life more secure, starting right now. two-factor authentication what it is: two-factor authentication is available with a large number of popular sites and services. in a nutshell, it’s a simple feature that prompts you for a password and then a short security code that is sent to your phone. here’s an example: if you’re logging into your gmail account you’d need to type in your username and password—then you’d be logged in. with two-factor authentication, you’d need to wait for google to send you a text message with a short code, and then type that in before you could access your account on a new machine. here’s a guide on how to setup two-factor authentication for facebook. here’s one for twitter. time to set up: about 15 minutes additional info: i know what you’re thinking: “this is way more annoying than it should be!” truth be told, after you’ve set up your device and configured two-factor authentication with the online services you use, it takes just an extra 15-20 seconds to login and everything else works in the background. security rating: two-factor authentication is incredibly secure because it requires at least two devices to get into your account (your phone and your laptop). it’s obviously still possible for someone to get into your account, but it’s less likely due to the extra security layer. passwords follow us all over the internet and everyone can benefit from the extra security available by implementing two-factor authentication on your web accounts. encrypt your email what it is: this is easy to do and understand. encrypting your email is nothing more than turning your emails into gibberish code that can only be deciphered with a key. you can then send this coded email to your recipient, who can only read it if they have the same key. advertising if you’re a gmail user, mailvelope is the best way to encrypt your emails. it’s a chrome and firefox extension that is quick and easy to set up. time to set up: about 5 minutes additional info: something you should know about email encryption is that it doesn’t work unless you and your recipient both have the encryption software. that’s because when you send someone an encrypted email, they can’t read it unless they’re able to decrypt it with the key at their end. in general, it’s not worth the hassle to encrypt your email unless you’re sending sensitive information. if you need to send someone a social security number, bank account details or credit card information, you’ll want to encrypt those emails. security rating: email encryption is, for the most part, a safe and secure way to communicate. this will not keep you safe from government/nsa snooping, but it will protect you from people hacking and reading your email. for non-web-based email encryption you should look into the enigmail project. set up a password manager http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rm0fzhxmasq advertising what it is: a password manager does pretty much what you’d think it would do: manage your passwords. basically, it locks all of your website passwords behind a single master password that only you know. this is awesome because it means you only have to remember a single password. time to set up: 30 minutes additional info: there are a good number of password managers available online. personally, i recommend lastpass, which can be a bit confusing to new users but it works well. signing up for a password is only half that battle. you’ll then have to go back into all of your accounts and set new passwords, which can be time consuming. also, it’s important to note that if you use multiple computers, you’ll need to install the password manager on all your systems. it would be terrible to end up locking yourself out of all of those online services and accounts you use. security rating: password managers like lastpass are very secure but still require strong passwords. the good news is that you can make your account passwords as strong as you’d like without having to remember them all. if you’re willing to go through the setup, i highly recommend you start using a password manager. hide your browsing activity what it is: if you haven’t heard about everything going on with the nsa watching our every move online, you’re living under a rock! but it’s not just the nsa you have to worry about. advertisers and even your isp are watching what you do online. hiding your browsing activity ensures that no one else can see what you’re doing online. there’s an easy to install browser extension called disconnect that works relatively well. time to set up: 5 minutes security rating: browser extensions are good but they don’t mask everything, so if you want true security you should consider using a virtual private network (vpn). advertising encrypt your online conversation what it is: much like you’d want to encrypt sensitive data within emails, it’s also a good idea to encrypt your chat conversations, especially when sharing sensitive information with friends online. thanks to an encryption feature called “off-the-record messaging” you can rest assured knowing your chat conversations are secure. time to set up: about 1 minute. additional info: if you’re a windows user you’ll want to use the chat applet called pidgin. if you’re a mac osx user you’ll want to use adium. if you’re not currently using these services you should consider starting now. basically, these allow you to im all your friends across all the various chat networks in one place. “off-the-record messaging” is built into adium. turning it on takes just a few mouse clicks. pidgin users will want to follow this easy guide to setup enable encrypted chatting. security rating: to actually have an encrypted chat conversation the person your chatting with will also need adium or pidgin installed, but that’s not terribly difficult to have someone do. in general, off-the-record chatting is super secure and is very difficult to crack. advertising encrypt and secure your backups what it is: these days we’re storing a lot of information in the cloud, and if you’rie using services like dropbox, zipcloud, or crashplan, you’ll want to make sure that your personal data is private and secure. time to set up: about 15 minutes. additional info: encryption for these services is relatively easy to set up. if you’re using crashplan this can be done automatically for you. if you’re using a service like dropbox you should use a service like safemonk, which encrypts your files before you upload them. if you’re like me and don’t have a ton of data that you need to encrypt (i have some medical, financial, and insurance files) you can use truecrypt. the downside to truecrypt is that once you’ve encrypted your files, you’re not able to access them from other computers. security rating: in general, you’ll be very secure with these forms of backup security, but you could also switch from unsecured cloud hosting services, like dropbox, to companies like tresorit and spideroak. if you’re storing a lot of sensitive information in the cloud you may want to consider switching to one of these more secure services. conclusion spend a few extra hours protecting yourself online. after the initial legwork, your information will be substantially more secure. it’s well worth the effort, so invest the time and protect yourself before it’s too late. share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut advertising advertising productivity technology advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. read full profile share pin it tweet share email typing is a lot of fun, especially if you’re the type of person who loves to write. whenever an idea comes to your head or you just want to communicate something, the feeling of scribbling things down in a computer is awesome. do you know that being able to type faster makes you more productive? in fact, it’ll save you 21 days every year just by typing faster! many people look up to master typists and wish that to handle a keyboard like they do. the truth is that none of them started that way, and they had to learn. in this piece, you’ll learn how to type faster with some useful tips and techniques: 1. work on your workspace and typing area a lot of people believe that fast and correct typing will start when you can master the keyboard. but the truth is, you will need to begin with getting a workspace that is clean, properly ventilated, and comfortable. also, for optimal typing, you will need to get a table and not out your laptop or computer on your lap. advertising if you will be working for an extended period, make sure that you’re comfortable. 2. fix your posture if you want to type well, the correct posture will be seated, straight backed, and with your feet planted a little apart, flat on the ground. you wrists should also be positioned in such a way that your fingers can cover the keyboard. tilt your head a bit as you can look at the screen properly as well. adjust your office chair so you’ll be able to easily play with the seat and get a proper posture. 3. hold your posture it is also very important that you keep this position as you type. ensure that your posture is good, and this way, you will be able to avoid getting aches on your wrists. these aches have a way of slowing you down and keeping you out of rhythm. keep your back and shoulders from hunching, and while relaxation should be your key goal as you work on, also be sure to stay upright. advertising 4. familiarize yourself with the keyboard the keyboard is your tool here, so you will need to get to know it. fortunately for you, most keyboards that you see will make use of the same layout; the qwerty layout. it is called that because of the letters that make the top left corner. you’ll also find that a lot of keyboards have keys around these main ones that do several tings. here’s a nice video to help you familiarize yourself with the keyboard: so, work on memorizing the positions of the letter keys, as well as some of the most used punctuation marks. you will need to understand where they are without looking at the keyboard. this is the only way you can learn to type fast. 5. close your eyes and say the keys out loud as you press them another great way to get to know the positions of these letters is to look away from them and directly at the screen. then, pronounce the keys as you press them and see if you’re correct. this step will go a long way in helping you to memorize the keys, and it can easily help you 6. start slowly with touch-typing improving your speed as you type is a matter of developing your skill over time. however, the quickest way to master typing will be touch typing. if this is your first time with touch typing, then you might spend a lot of time on this step. however, once you can type without looking at the keys, your speed will increase. advertising now, this typing method might feel a bit alien, but you’ll improve with time. 7. stick with it and don’t look at your hands the whole essence of this step is to keep you from looking at your keyboard as you type, so that your fingers are made to learn how the keys work. again, you might find that your speed reduces when you begin, but just stick to it. touch typing will help you to reach higher speeds and master it. 8. practice, practice, practice mastering the touch typing technique will prove to be a bit finicky, but once your posture is up and you get your fingers where they should be, you can only improve by practicing. spare some time on a daily basis to practice and master both accuracy and speed. with continuous practice, you will also notice that you make fewer errors with time. advertising 9. check out some online games there are also some websites that can help you with your practicing. they score you and record your words per minute, so you can try improving your record and competing with others as well. here’re some of the nice sites: typing club the typing cat typing.com 10. dictation practice if you don’t know what you can type, another alternative to getting good practice is to listen to something and try to type as you hear the words. there is no limit to the kind of things you can type, and you can even make the practice process more fun. so, get an e-book, an online lecture, or listen to a talk show and type. you could watch a tv show as well. 11. monitor your progress ensure that you keep track of the progress you make as you go on. but it is important that you don’t get obsessed with how many words you are able to type in a minute. rather, ensure that you stay comfortable while you type. with time, your words per minute will increase, and you’ll be able to clock up some high numbers. 12. get some formal training if you want there are actually a lot of specially designed courses and programs that will boost your typing ability. if you’re willing to improve your skill, get any of these and see how well they work for you: byte back peter’s online typing course don’t just finish reading this article and expect that you’ll type faster. you do need to work on your skills. it takes time to type fast but, practice makes perfect! more tips about typing faster how to save 21 days per year by typing fast 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast featured photo credit: cytonn photography via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 8 most effective games and apps to learn to type fast how to save 21 days per year by typing fast how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques advertising advertising more by this author tanvir zafar the founder of isu technologies, passionate in writing about productivity, creativity, entrepreneurship, work and technology. how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 10 best note taking apps to get organized 20 best places to work for a great career in 2020 15 best entrepreneurs books to start reading now to be successful 15 best organization apps to boost your productivity in 2020 advertising trending in technology 1 how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques 2 11 meeting scheduler apps to boost your productivity this year 3 11 google chrome apps & features for getting more done with less effort 4 11 brain training apps to train your mind and improve memory 5 15 productivity chrome extensions to boost productivity in 2020 read next how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated how to achieve a realistic work life balance how to stay motivated and reach your big goals in life about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.