got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos selena gomez featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... home › selena gomez self-quarantining on the dance floor! selena gomez lets her body shine in new dance again performance video! 03/27/20 5:50am pdt click for details new friends! selena gomez distracts madison prewett from her peter weber breakup with game night! 03/13/20 11:49am pdt click for details 'i got a lot to figure out' selena gomez feels like she might be alone forever! 03/11/20 9:06am pdt click for details 'this was my chance' selena gomez talks finding her identity through new album 03/07/20 11:30am pdt click for details don't worry, hailey! selena gomez fully done with justin bieber 'chapter' -- and she knows how to find a better guy now! 02/28/20 6:47am pdt click for details listen to 'feel me'! selena gomez finally drops fan demanded song about an unfaithful lover! 02/21/20 5:27pm pdt click for details kanye west rude towards his wife! lana del rey unwell! cindy crawford a wreck over troubled son! and… | perez hilton 02/20/20 5:07pm pdt click for details cc: selena gomez hailey bieber references selena's justin bieber lyrics again in shady af instagram post! 02/20/20 11:37am pdt click for details vote: who was this week's best dressed celeb?? 02/07/20 5:20pm pdt click for details 'i've pushed myself through this' selena gomez discusses regrets, princess diana, & having a bigger voice 02/05/20 3:35pm pdt click for details click for more news hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy