home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag selena gomez 72 posts have a read the briefing new/old music friday: selena gomez gives the people what they want "i want doesn't get" except sometimes it does. have a read the briefing new music friday: selena gomez opens the 2020 banger window here come the good songs. this follows a yummy-shaped false start last week. have a read the briefing new music friday: ina wroldsen at the top, sam smith at the bottom, various songs in between in which one of pop's best songwriters launches her solo career. also, pitbull's back. have a read the news galantis have remixed selena gomez's 'fetish' and the results are on the www also, take a look at that artwork have a read songs selena gomez feat gucci mane — 'fetish' oh yes, it's another whisperpop marvel. have a read the news selena gomez has said her next single is "completely different to 'bad liar'" popstar in not releasing same song twice shock have a read the news selena gomez has been working with ryan tedder on a "heartfelt goose-bumpy mid-tempo" at least it's not kygo have a read songs britney spears, troye sivan, mary j blige, mnek, gwen stefani, alex newell, p!nk, jennifer lopez, adam lambert, selena gomez, halsey, jason derulo etc — 'hands' a justin tranter-helmed tribute to the 49 victims of last month's pulse nightclub shootings. have a read videos selena gomez — 'kill em with kindness' have a read the news zayn, selena and justin bieber have been nominated for multiple teen choice awards zayn 'zayn' 'zayn' malik, award show truth teller justin bieber and former frontwoman of the scene, selena gomez, have all been nominated three times for this year's teen choice awards.… welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is rain (feat. tay keith) - aitch & aj tracey the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits an interview with tove lo interview: the internet versus lily allen kylie minogue interview: "i do like cosmic thoughts" further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled