menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies self-improvement self-improvement browse self-improvement topics close wellness positivity exercise encouragement career advice philosophy faith life lessons new age money decision making happiness success goals self-love books to read inspirational you’re allowed to close the doors that don’t feel like home rania naim dear god, keep me grounded in you faith dorothy anne field you’re meant to heal what hurts you, you’re not supposed to live in pain forever inspirational brianna wiest stop faulting other people for crossing boundaries you never set in the first place brianna wiest “the race grows sweeter near its final lap.” eve pell when self-help goes from productive to harmful sarah farris breathe—what’s meant to be will always be encouragement krizzia paolyn the happiest girls are the ones who keep going, going, going holly riordan latest self-improvement articles this is what every student athlete needs to know erin jones wesley “ why do you love the sport that you play? 7 reminders every girl with a soft heart needs right now holly riordan “ the right person is not going to consider you clingy. they are going to be excited about all of the attention you give. they are never going to accuse you of coming across too strong. they are never going to make you feel like you need to tone it down. in this time of stillness, let us remember our humanness encouragement lauren silveira “ we have forgotten the truth that we are interconnected—all beings across all lands. that our lives are lived separately, but are deeply woven together in ways we have misunderstood. 30 pieces of validation for women in their 30s encouragement michelle pugle “ you should leave. they are wrong. you are being gaslit. it might take some time, but you can rebuild your life encouragement emily heron “ life will not look the same after hitting rock bottom, but beautiful things are often born out of tragedy. maybe the universe isn’t saying ‘no’, it’s just saying ‘not right now’ encouragement lauren tyler “ we’ve all heard the old adage “the right thing at the wrong time is still the wrong thing.” 6 reasons you owe it to yourself to set boundaries encouragement thomas cushman “ if we tolerate behavior from one person that’s unfair to us, don’t even begin to think that it will only be that one person acting that way toward us. 8 things to remember when it seems like giving up is the only thing to do encouragement megan minutillo “ the world needs you. 5 gentle reminders that you’re doing better than you believe holly riordan “ progress is hard to spot from where you’re standing. sometimes the best response is no response at all encouragement kensey stephens “ when you stop playing into the toxic cycle by not responding, it allows you to move on with life. it allows you to gain power in a toxic situation. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.