menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies self-love self-love the healthiest thing you could do for yourself is to set boundaries rania naim it’s time to stop apologizing for your heart rania naim self-love looks better on you than heartbreak rania naim you’re not supposed to have every answer, so stop trying to race to the finish line brianna wiest forgive yourself for all the times you didn’t choose yourself colleen george the things we don’t say out loud bria barrows i’m slowly learning how to trust new beginnings again rania naim latest self-love articles i hope you know that you will find yourself again isabella housel “ i hope you know that you can love again, and i hope you know that you deserve good love. how falling in love taught me to fall in love with myself bethany casey “ being in love doesn’t solve all your problems. i’m slowly learning how to stop wasting my time rania naim “ i’m slowly learning how to stop giving other people the right to define me or tell me who i should be. on days i do not love myself giana mae licoto “ on days i do not love myself, i wake up feeling afraid of myself. this body sometimes still feels like an intruder in the same home it built. the unedited truth about loving someone who doesn’t love themselves daniela lupu “ i am tired. i am in pain. i burned myself out trying to be there for someone who can’t see the good from the bad and who likes their own misery. an open letter to my unborn daughter elizabeth moss “ what i want most for you in this life is for you to love yourself unconditionally. this is why some people struggle with self-love stephani shaner “ putting your needs first is not selfish, despite what your brain tells you. i’m complex, but that’s what makes me who i am yelisa espinal “ i am a woman who is 100% confident in who she is and what she wants, but i am also a woman who is 100% insecure. how to love and nurture your neglected self tony fahkry “ negative emotions serve a purpose, and we mustn’t run away from them but deal with them with openness and compassion. remember: you are whole on your own becky curl “ i never should have been looking for you to complete me. i never should have tried to make sense of a life i never even wanted. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.