skip to content skip to navigation sitemap welcome to judy's corner of the internet hi, i'm judy of the woods, an off-grid homesteader since 1993 and a life-long creativity addict with a severe case of ocd™ - obsessive creative desire. here i share some of my experience and sometimes unusual work on the wide spectrum of self-reliance. maybe you want to start a part-time or full-time business, produce your own electricity, forage for wild food or even build and furnish your own tiny house. you will find a diverse assortment of articles, tutorials, proof-of-concepts and tools to inspire and help you gain a little more independence. a good mix of creativity, will, pragmatism and technology go a long way. below is a brief introduction to each section of this website. business if you have, or are planning a small business with an online presence, you can find some useful technical and other information here. introduction and links creativity whether you have small or big problems, want to design an object or an entire system, or need the clarity for a big or difficult decision - it helps to have a process and tools for the job. introduction and links productivity well, what can i say about this section! if you are a productivity, creativity and paper fan, you might just find yourself in heaven. introduction and links. make it there are practical ideas throughout this website, but here are a few tinkering and craft ideas, projects and stuff which does not fit in well elsewhere. introduction and links simple living the pages of this section show my alternative off-grid life style with solar and hydro electricity, the log cabin and tiny house i built and how i live in a compact space. introduction and links wild food information on the use of wild plants, as well as a free mobile foraging guide for northern europe and temperate n. america, and a moderately priced pdf version for n. america. introduction and links click here for free guides !! menu close menu home - introduction to the sections of this website resources - downloads, products and services about - introduction to the site and judy contact sitemap - everything in one place sections business - running a small online business creativity - tools and ideas to help you shape your life productivity - tools for getting things done make it - home made stuff simple living - urban and rural wild food - foraging for wild food press enter for sitemap (section menu not accessible) or tab to continue press enter to move focus to content press enter to close menu and move focus to content close menu please enable javascript for menu, or use sitemap to navigate. get free updates... close ... delivered to your inbox. don't miss out on great new content. popular posts problem solving and design the simple guide to pixels, resolution and dpi the dirt cheap milk container binding system homemade vegetable oil lamp cold vacuum-sealing containers - easily and cheaply compact living solar site design judy recommends mark muller - writer, historian and storyteller par excellence. mark brings to life history in an engaging way. if only my history teachers had been that entertaining. tumbleweed - travelling with his dog on a shoestring to wherever the wind blows him (currently spain). with plenty of retrospectives from a fully lived life. back to top site map judyofthewoods.net this hand-coded website is produced with solar and hydro electric power © judyofthewoods.net 2007 to 2019 all rights reserved this site uses cookies for statistical purposes (no identifying details). by using this site you agree to them.