toll free: 877-624-6889 timeshare directory timeshare cities timeshare states timeshare countries buy timeshare hilton timeshare marriott timeshare hyatt timeshare wyndham timeshare disney timeshare worldmark timeshare all resorts sell timeshare sell wyndham timeshare sell worldmark timeshare sell disney timeshare sell bluegreen timeshare sell marriott timeshare sell hilton timeshare sell orange lake timeshare timeshares for sale faq seller faq buyer faq our team about contact us search for home buy timeshare grand pacific resorts timeshare grand pacific palisades resort & hotel grand pacific palisades resort & hotel 5805 amanda drive, carlsbad, california, 92008, united states sell your timeshare timeshares for sale get price alerts make offer prev next california's carlsbad region is a beautiful mixture of fun, family-oriented theme parks, and breathtaking flower fields and beaches. with a timeshare at grand pacific palisades resort you'll be close to these many attractions while also enjoying a fun and relaxing holiday resort perfect for everyone. suite accommodations with multiple bedrooms with these california timeshare resales, you can relax in a one, two, or three-bedroom suite fully equipped with the amenities you'll need to feel right at home. an lcd tv with cable and a dvd player center the living room along with a queen-sized pullout sofa. you can prep your meals in the complete kitchens outfitted with microwave, dishwasher, and full-sized appliances. the suites can accommodate between four and nine guests each. a patio or balcony provides outdoor living spaces, and select suites even have a cozy fireplace. time to sell your grand pacific palisades resort timeshare? if you already own and want to sell your ownership interest, let us put our experience and industry knowledge to work to find your buyer without having to pay any kind of up-front fee. we can negotiate sales prices, handle all the paperwork in a timely manner, coordinate with reputable title companies and you don’t pay us a dime until after we sell the ownership and it is transferred to a new owner! to learn more about how timeshare broker associates can sell your vacation ownership, please fill out the form on this page. great activities all around the resort is just a mile from the beach, and you can easily travel there via the trolley which runs from grand pacific palisades resort to tamarack beach. other onsite amenities include the large outdoor swimming pool surrounded by lounge chairs and tables and an interactive kid’s pool. a playground is also a lot of fun for the kids between trips to the area's many theme parks. for the adults, there is an onsite bar and restaurant where you can unwind with a few drinks at the end of the night. the fitness center is a great way to keep in shape and get your workouts in while you stay. there are many family-centered activities to enjoy in the area surrounding the resort. it has a pedestrian entrance to legoland, a creative theme park fun for the whole family. or, you can use concierge services at grand pacific palisades resort to book bus tours to other major california destinations such as hollywood, and head out to disneyland and sea world. during the blooming season of march through may, the flower fields of carlsbad are a riot of colors and scents. so when you are looking for a family vacation how to call your own, the california timeshare resales in carlsbad, california will be a delight for all ages. available units resort amenities unit amenities activities bedrooms season usage views average price view unit location ocean view onsite amenities elevator exercise room handicapped accessible restaurant sauna fireplace fully equipped kitchen washer/dryer no other amenity found. resort location 760-827-3200 www.grandpacificpalisades.com contact grand pacific palisades resort & hotel specialist today! what can we help you with? selling my timeshare buying a timeshare renting my timeshare i give my elec. sig. and consent for timeshare broker associates to send me promotions and purchase offers on my timeshare at the above email address and phone number including by autodialer, text msg., and prerecorded msg. consent not required for purchase. msg & data rates may apply. i also agree to the terms of services and privacy policy. text msgs. may result in a faster sale of my timeshare. privacy policy | contact us create price alert! enter your details below to be emailed when inventory matching your specifications becomes available. grand pacific palisades resort & hotel ad types select ad typetimeshare for sale timeshare for rent timeshare for rent & sale season: not selected (optional)float high red view: not selected (optional)ocean view i give my elec. sig. and consent for timeshare broker associates and third-party brokers to contact me at the above mobile number including by autodialer, text msg., and prerecorded msg. consent not required for purchase. msg & data rates may apply. i also agree to the sms terms and conditions and privacy policy. orlando office address: 8615 commodity circle, suite 2, orlando, fl 32819 phone: 877-624-6889 / fax: (407) 386-3048 © copyright 2020 - timeshare broker associates, llc - all rights reserved site powered by advanced internet management privacy policy contact us sitemap sms terms and conditions sell your timeshare