editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. prime / member exclusives senate goper keeps biden-ukraine conspiracies alive amid outbreak by nicole lafond | march 13, 2020 6:13 p.m. at least one senate republican is still trafficking in biden-ukraine conspiracies: earlier this week, senate homeland security committee chair ron johnson (r-wi) abruptly cancelled the vote to subpoena ukrainian andrii telizhenko, a consultant with blue star, a d.c. lobbying firm that worked for burisma. burisma is, of course, the ukrainian gas company that former vice president joe biden’s son hunter biden sat on briefly while his father was veep. hunter biden’s existence on that board has fueled a plethora of conspiracy theories, including the work trump attorney rudy giuliani was doing in ukraine while trying to force the government to investigate the bidens. members-only article already a member? sign in to access exclusive analysis and reporting from tpm’s award-winning staff along with: the hive member forum members-only newsletter exclusive rss feeds commenting prime $4.99/mo $1 / first month access to member exclusives and fewer ads join for $1 prime ad free $9.99/mo $1 / first month access to member exclusives and no ads join for $1 view all options masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy