engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget sennheiser momentum wireless 3 buy now login the buyer's guide find it, buy it and tell us how you really feel. all phones laptops gaming headphones home theater tablets more photography networking storage reviews / headphones sennheiser momentum wireless 3 reviews / headphones sennheiser momentum wireless 3 from $399.95+ $399.95 buy now share share 79 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 79 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). engadget review sennheiser did a lot of things right on the third-generation momentum wireless. the company’s warm and clear sound is still a delight, and the headphones remain comfortable even after hours of use. however, battery life is about half of what sony and others offer and the noise cancellation here isn’t as good as what the best anc headphones exhibit. plus, they’re $50 more than sony’s stellar wh-1000xm3, which are the best you can buy right now. read full review pros great audio very comfortable reliable on-board controls great range cons woeful battery life versus the competition noise cancellation disappoints in some environments sensitive motion sensors reviews 82 average critic score critic reviews 10 80 the verge feature-packed, if not a sonic standout if you've been holding off on buying the current sennheiser momentums because of their slightly dated specs, then the new headphones are a great update. i'd stop short of recommending these headphones to absolutely everyone, however, particularly if you’re looking for the absolute best sound quality available. read full review 80 gizmodo sennheiser's new momentum wireless are still king of the headphones the weird thing to me, still, is that it took me a few days to love the new momentum wireless. if you're upgrading from the old generation, there's a little bit of a learning curve, as the new sennheisers are smarter. read full review see all critic reviews 0 average user score user reviews 0 see all reviews specs key specs type over-ear channels stereo active noise cancellation yes connections wireless inline controls yes type channels active noise cancellation connections inline controls over-ear stereo yes wireless yes write a review tip: log in before writing a review step 1: rate and comment on specific criteria sound quality 0 design and form factor 0 comfort 0 noise isolation 0 durability 0 step 2: write a detailed review tips: make sure to include your initial thoughts on using the product, any observations and potentially any issues you might have run into while using it. step 3: finalize your product rating and submit your review we've calculated your overall product rating based on the average of your criteria ratings above. you can adjust this rating by dragging this slider. overall rating 0 login and submit! 79 engadget score a good product that falls short of greatness. 79 a good product that falls short of greatness. how we score the engadget score is a unique ranking of products based on extensive independent research and analysis by our expert editorial and research teams. the global score is arrived at only after curating hundreds, sometimes thousands of weighted data points (such as critic and user reviews). see all scores scores engadget 79 critic 10 reviews 82 users not yet scored user reviews there are currently no user reviews associated with this product. that's okay though because you can add your own review and we'll feature it here. write a review about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr