toggle navigation home about project overview the team spammers support documentation faqs forum bugs premium service download donate introducing sentora - the open-source web hosting control panel! sentora is based on the solid foundations of zpanel and developed by the original team, sentora provides a robust open-source web hosting control panel for small to medium isps. learn more community and 'premium' supported although the software is 'open-source' and we provide a community support forum, our team provide a premium support service enabling you to receive faster responses and resolution times. learn more extend as you grow... sentora provides the most common control panel features 'out of the box' but when you need more head over to our 'add-ons store' and download third-party modules, translations and even theme sets! coming soon! developed with love! sentora is developed by a small team of guys, lead by tom, pascal and sam. with help from the support staff and community, they contribute their spare time in developing and improving the software as well as maintaining the site, forums and servers. meet the team simplified management sentora is designed to simplify web hosting management, it gives your clients the ability to quickly and easily manage their web hosting. supported we provide both community-based (free) and subscription-based premium support services to cater for both personal and commercial users! extendable our add-ons store provides our users with a central repository to install, rate, sell and publish modules, themes and localisations. open-souce released under the gplv3, sentora is the perfect choice for the most small to medium isps looking for a cost effective, extendable platform. sentora sentora is an open-source web hosting control panel built specifically to work on a variety of linux distributions. sentora is licensed under the gplv3 and is a separately maintained fork of the original zpanel project. sentora is developed and maintained by the original members of the zpanel team. meet the team latest announcements mach-hosting zppy repo temporarily offline. posted 1 month ago registrations are temporarily disabled posted 20 months ago php 7 warning and disclaimer posted 35 months ago merry christmas, happy holidays and happy new year! posted 39 months ago ubuntu: apt-get update failures posted 40 months ago tapatalk installed on forums! posted 51 months ago upgrading zpanel 10.1.* to sentora - alpha/beta posted 55 months ago debian 7 & 8 support added posted 55 months ago update your profiles! posted 55 months ago sentora 1.0.3 & critical patch for sentora 1.0.x posted 56 months ago latest release 1.0.3 love sentora? if you benefit from and/or like using sentora then please help drive the future development of the project by donating today! © copyright 2014-2020 the sentora project. all rights reserved.