(+2721) 696 9155 / contact us navigation home about us seo services website seo audit services on-page optimization services keyword research services local seo services seo copywriting services local seo services classified ads submission service local citation building services seo cape town web 2.0 creation service link building services article directory submission services directory submission services classified ads submission service local citation building services guest posting service pdf submission service web 2.0 creation service testimonials contact faq page blog welcome to seo traffic - a professional seo company in cape town at seo traffic, it's our mission to help your website achieve higher search engine rankings. we'll use all the tools at our disposal to help targeted leads find your site, and to turn them into customers. seo services our search engine optimization services work with unpaid, organic search results that are displayed when an internet user performs a search. the biggest search engines like google, base search results on the value of the content, its relevance and its popularity. we are constantly testing these areas to achieve higher serp rankings for our clients; every client’s success is connected to our consultant’s knowledge of ranking criteria. at seo traffic, we don’t treat seo as a singular strategy. rather, we combine it with other im areas such as banner ads, ppc, article submission, marketing videos, blog posts, social media and email marketing. seo solutions → seo packages we have various seo packages to help your site get the highest rankings possible. our services are designed to improve your rankings for relevant phrases and keywords. we offer packages including services such as: web design, seo copywriting, link building, search engine and directory submissions, video marketing, article writing, social media profile building and more. why hire separate companies to do all this, when you can get the best seo packages and pricing from us at seo traffic? local seo seo traffic offers a google local seo service that has the expertise necessary to optimize your site for the local market. local seo in south africa may be a good idea if a search for your relevant keywords yields a first page full of google maps listings, or if your competitors are on top of local google listings for your chosen keywords. do you want to get to the top of the results pages on the major search engines? are you strictly a local seller? if the answer to either of those questions is “yes”, contact us for a free quote today. local seo → seo audit a professional seo audit service provides a great foundation for online marketing campaigns, and it can help you maximize your roi while naturally improving your local business’ search engine rankings. seo audits can be performed after a site redesign, before a new site goes online, or to solve a specific, search engine-related problem. every seo audit done by seo traffic is tailored to suit your business’ timeline, needs and budget. with our service, you’ll increase targeted seo traffic, and you’ll get an in-depth report that lists your specific issues, with suggestions on how to fix them. we don’t use software to do our audits – each one is handled personally by competent staff. seo audits → seo copywriting do you need content that helps generate sales, build leads and increase customer loyalty? if you answered “yes”, seo traffic can help. we are one of south africa’s premier content marketing companies, and we provide our copywriting services to individuals, agencies and businesses. our professional copywriters are highly educated, and are well versed in technical writing, proofreading, marketing strategy, press release creation, infographic creation and script writing. many business owners have the skills necessary to create great content, but they don’t have enough time to do it. seo traffic understands the pressure created by deadlines, and we are here to help. contact us today for a review of your site’s content, and ask us how we can make your online brand more consistent. seo copywriting → link building for your site to be visible to the search engines, you’ll need a high quality link building service. google’s algorithms are complex, using many factors to score websites – but hyperlinks are still one of the easiest and simplest ways to increase your site’s visibility. the link building process can be time-consuming and difficult, but it’s important if you want your site to rank high in the serps (search engine results pages). we will help you learn about your target audience, and then we will put together a link building campaign that can help you diversify your link portfolio. when you create quality inbound links, you will establish your business’ credibility, bring more referral traffic and build your online brand while making your site more relevant and improving your search engine ranking. quality link building → link building packages the term “link building” refers to the establishment of links that direct visitors to your site; these links are usually obtained through purchase, exchange or request. google’s algorithm updates over the past two years have been detrimental to many sites, and if you have been online for long, you have probably noticed the effects. penguin has changed the seo game, but our team of professionals is staying on top of the guidelines so they can continue to build links naturally. our link building packages can help your site rank higher in the search engines, even after panda and penguin, and we will tailor our services to meet your needs, your schedule and your budget. to increase traffic, improve your ranking in the serps and build a strong online presence, we invite you to choose from our selection of link building services. mobile seo in mobile optimization, the goal is for your customers to be able to see your site on their handheld devices. our mobile seo services aren’t that different from traditional seo; we use many of the same techniques, but implement them in unique ways. we use resources such as mobile friendly web design, mobile site maps, link building and content marketing to build your online brand’s trust and credibility. learn seo if you want to start from the ground up and learn seo yourself, this is the place to start. our seo blog covers the fundamentals and it offers additional tips and tricks to help you make your site friendlier to the search engines. we make learning seo interesting and fun! visit our seo blog → why choose us? 1. seo analysis despite their best intentions, most companies don’t have a marketing plan that includes seo content creation or a keyword research service. to make matters worse, some seo companies are more concerned with the bottom line than with planning an seo campaign. have the experts at seo traffic take a look at your site and your campaigns, and they will help you turn your site into an automatic sales and lead generation tool. after we perform an analysis and develop an seo strategy, your new campaigns will leave you with a long-term way to boost traffic and qualified visitors. 2. seo specialists your local business’ website may look great, but if it isn’t bringing in visitors who are likely to become customers, it’s not working as it should and your bottom line can suffer. at seo traffic, our team of specialists will review your website, and we’ll ask you about your target market and your business goals. from there, we’ll formulate a strategy to help you improve your site’s traffic and search engine rankings. improving your website may be as simple as rewriting a few html title tags, or it may be as complex as fixing issues that prevent search engine ‘spiders’ from crawling your site and indexing its content. we’ll work diligently to get you top-quality links from external sites that are relevant to your niche. 3. seo reporting as important as seo is, it’s equally vital to track your seo progress. with monthly seo reporting from seo traffic, you can easily see which strategies work, and which ones need improvement. if it can be measured, it can be managed! our detailed seo reports give you in-depth information on visitor demographics, keywords, traffic and much more. we also offer seo monthly report samples so that you know what to expect from our seo reports. 4. affordable seo at seo traffic, our focus is on small business owners like you – and we know that money is a concern for many, so we make every effort to keep seo rates low. by offering cost effective seo services, we can help businesses of all sizes succeed. other companies charge a high price for seo, but we focus on traffic generation – and we only optimize what’s necessary. google+ let’s drive targeted traffic to your business website through search engines like google. simply fill in the form below and let us help you rank your website for keywords your buyers are searching for. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message 31 mar2015 choosing the right keywords for seo 0 4 by mozie / march 31, 2015 / beginner seo, keyword research, seo keyword research is critical for seo latest statistics show that around 70% users always research for products online before making a purchase decision. so basically, the buying cycle starts with “keywords” being entered into the google search box. the internet has become the biggest marketplace for exchange of goods and services ... read more march 31, 2015mozie 23 mar2015 critical seo ranking factors for google in 2015 0 3 by mozie / march 23, 2015 / beginner seo, google, on page optimization, seo it's been estimated that google considers about 200 factors when ranking websites, but the exact number is up for debate – and for novice site owners, the whole ranking process can be intimidating. if you're just starting out and you need to decide which areas of seo to focus upon ... read more march 23, 2015mozie what started as a small effort has grown into the best cape town seo company. seo traffic is south africa's leader in seo for small and large businesses, and our proactive strategies keep us ahead of changing technology. our tools and skills turn data into revenue for our clients, and brands across south africa trust us to optimize their sites and increase targeted traffic. for help growing your online presence, call us today to get an seo quote. tel: (+27) 21 696 9155 e-mail: sales@seotraffic.co.za seo pricing when working with seo professionals, the price of seo services is often a sticky subject. some companies charge hourly, while others charge a flat per-project rate. the cost of seo per month can be expensive for small businesses. with us at seo traffic, you'll get transparent seo pricing plans and you'll get help from professionals who can ethically rank your website higher in the search engines. quality seo content content is the most important part of a website, it's what converts visitors into loyal buying customers. we honestly believe that a strong content strategy is one of the best seo strategies there is. at seo traffic, we have top notch writers that have experience at writing for a variety of different niches. the well researched content we provide is always top notch and loved by readers and search engines. let us help improve website conversions, rankings and traffic with a well optimized seo content strategy today. simply click here. contact us seo traffic - online marketing company in cape town © 2020 cart no products in the cart.