skip to content skip to navigation blog contact login to your account français español menu features pricing support get it now! improve your traffic now! simple, fast and powerful seo plugin for wordpress from 0 to $39, unlimited sites download free version get seopress pro last updated march 11, 2020 languages +20 (en, fr, de, es...) requires at least wordpress 4.7+ +100000 active seopress installations +550 reviews rated 4.9/5 on wordpress.org optimize quickly and easily the seo of your wordpress site all in one all the features you need in one plugin: breadcrumbs, redirections, schemas, sitemaps, broken link checker... easy to use installation wizard, quickly enable/disable features, modify your title tags in seconds... save time with seopress white label no footprints in the source code, no ads, no anonymous data sent, white label, even in the free version. learn more about white label with seopress introducing seopress discover our seo plugin for wordpress in video. from 0 to $39 / year, unlimited sites! download free version get seopress pro titles & metas manage your titles, meta description, meta robots (noindex, nofollow, noodp, noimageindex, noarchive, nosnippet...) for every post, page, custom post type, archive page... give a sitemap to google improve search engines crawling by providing xml sitemaps of your posts, pages, custom post types, terms taxonomy but also videos, images and news. be social improve social networks sharing with open graph tags (facebook and pinterest), twitter card, google knowledge graph and more... see all features featured on beautifully integrated with your favorite wordpress plugins & 3rd-party apps seopress integrates seamlessly with popular page builders, e-commerce, translation, performance and analytics tools. wpml polylang multilingualpress woocommerce easy digital downloads wp-rocket weglot google analytics elementor divi visual composer admin columns pro rated 4.9/5 on wordpress.org! more than 550 reviews on the official repository of wordpress plugins. best seo plugin "seopress is in my opinion, the best seo plugin for wordpress, very easy to use and configure, i discovered this plugin, and now it is the seo plugin i will use for all my site[...]" @oceanwp great replacement for yoast "with yoast, i was running another plugin just to clean up its interface bloat. it was time for a change and i’m glad i have. seopress checks all the boxes while providing a clean, understated interface. what’s not to like?" @robzarry so glad i purchased pro! "i recently moved from yoast to seopress, and i don’t know why i didn’t do it sooner. the features have replaced several plugins in my stack, and it took me almost no time to learn how to use all of them!" the admin bar - @skvandeusen this is an seo plugin to beat all seo plugins and competes, and perhaps outperforms, most of the others on the market "pricing is spot on. features are plentiful. the design is excellent and the overall layout and navigation is so simple, even someone brand new to wordpress can follow it. plus, it performs on the seo front which is the most important thing." david attard, collectiveray latest seo news [covid-19] new properties for virtual, postponed, and canceled events – seopress 3.8.4 update release posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 seopress 3.8.4 has been released quickly to include the adjustments made to the events… nofollow, no more? posted on march 16, 2020march 13, 2020 on march 1st, 2020, google changed the way that they handle nofollow links between… advanced conditions for schemas, mobile preview, new import tool and more! – seopress 3.8.2 release posted on march 9, 2020march 10, 2020 seopress 3.8.2 is now available. we encourage you to update your site as soon… improve your traffic! download seopress now and start seo optimization of your wordpress site. download free version get seopress pro subscribe & get exclusive deals! e-mail* name this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. seopress is a wordpress seo plugin for your website. simple, fast & powerful. copyright © 2017 - 2020 seopress — all rights reserved products seopress free seopress pro pricing customize seopress changelog roadmap seopress & productivity seopress vs yoast company about press our partners affiliate area contact sitemap terms and conditions privacy policy resources blog support guides hooks faq my account secure payment with by continuing to use this site you consent to the use of cookies in accordance with our cookie policy.acceptx