petite anglaise september 30, 2004 nation of hypochondriacs filed under: french touch — petiteanglaiseparis @ 11:40 am its arrêt de travail season again. the french take colds very seriously indeed. at the first sign of a sniffle they are generally to be found queueing up at the dr’s surgery, emerging € 25 poorer, but triumphantly brandishing a dr’s note instructing them to stay at home for the rest of the week. impressive long medical names are used on the arrêt de travail but do not be duped, things are rarely as serious as they seem: rhino-pharyngite = a common cold pharyngite = a sore throat bronchite = a cough (not to be confused with proper bronchitis) une grippe = a common cold (not to be confused with proper flu) a recent advertising campaign by the sécurité sociale attempted to curb the over-prescription of antibiotics in france – it seems that the population at large, including many doctors, had not understood that most colds are viruses and antibiotics are therefore ineffective in treating them. on the rare occasions when i have felt the need to see a doctor in france, i have never come away with a prescription with less than 5 items on it. including the ubiquitous suppositories. the dr asked me how many days i wanted to be signed off work. however, as my employers are british, they have little respect for employees who ‘go native’ and milk the system for a bit of extra vacation. in the uk, the emphasis seems to be on taking turbo-charged cold remedies that have you back at work (if indeed you ever left) in a jiffy. there is a thriving black market in imported lemsip and boots cold cures in my office; personally i always smuggle over a good stock of lockets, and plenty of paracetamol, asprin and ibuprofen, which cost roughly 10 times less in a british supermarket. unbelievably asprin and paracetamol are only available as branded, over the counter drugs in france. *sniffle sniffle* mmmm. having said that, i do quite fancy a long weekend… comments (12) september 29, 2004 conquering conkers filed under: missing blighty — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:09 pm it’s that time of year again where the pavements are covered in leaves (despite the best efforts of an army of municipal staff whose sole purpose in life seems to be to hoover/sweep/blow them away) and i am obliged to bring the pushchair to a halt every few seconds to pick up a particularly shiny conker for the tadpole to inspect. conkers. i have finally got around to googling them and am no longer confused about how to translate conker into french. the horse chestnut tree is a marronnier. but what the french refer to as a marron is not the fruit of the marronnier at all (those are apparently marrons d’inde), it’s actually a type of edible chestnut. the marron is used to manufacture a 1 part nut to 20 parts sugar, sickly sweet chestnut paste (often found in crèpes), and is also sold in boxes of marrons glacés around christmas time. there was me thinking that french people ate conkers – but this is apparently not the case. what they certainly do not do, is thread conkers onto pieces of string and have duels to the ‘death’ with them. at least not according to the frog (an unreliable source, but the only french person i feel able to bore with all my stupid questions). a couple of years ago we were invited to stay with a friend in hertfordshire who was hosting the annual “redbourn conker tournament” in her back garden. it was a very grand affair, with free-flowing lager and coloured rosettes for the winners in each category. the categories were: natural conkers (untampered with, the current year’s vintage) steroid conkers (pertaining to conkers which had been kept from the previous year, baked, pickled in vinegar, varnished or otherwise treated) largest conker smallest conker best fancy dress conker as i recall i was swaying too much from the lager to distinguish myself in the the first two categories, but i did win a rosette for my conker dressed as kylie minogue (sporting a fetching pair of gold hotpants). the frog gamely gave it a go, but no amount of enthusiasm could overcome his opponents’ accumulated years of playground experience. there’s one thing can be said for us brits. we don’t half know how to have fun. comments (15) september 28, 2004 gender reassignment filed under: uncategorized — petiteanglaiseparis @ 10:48 am these days i’m often mistaken for a french person, at least over the phone (because apparently i will always ‘look’ english). that is until i make some unforgiveably basic gender mistake. because let’s face it, you can study a language to degree level, live in the country for donkey’s years, but you can’t re-programme your brain to think that a table is feminine and a glass is masculine. my theory is that when a french person learns to speak, the le or la is learnt as an extension of the noun in question, one cannot be dissociated from the other. whereas when i learn a new french word, i retain the noun itself, but not its gender. i’m just not hardwired that way. this is the main reason i didn’t feel capable of teaching french. “please miss, you just said une verre but yesterday in the book fifi la folle said un verre…” i’m always astonished when i get a gender wrong, for example when shopping, and the person serving me stares back blankly, genuinely not understanding what it is that i want. you would assume, would you not, that if you asked for une éclair au chocolat instead of un éclair au chocolat it wouldn’t be the end of the world? apparently not. i am generally reduced to repeating my mistake a few more times, in a louder voice, until finally the shop assistant has a flash of inspiration and replies: “ah oui madame, vous voulez dire un éclair au chocolat, bien sûr…” what really doesn’t help is that many words simply have the wrong gender, in my opinion. how can i possibly be expected to get my head around the following blatant mismatches between concept and gender? masculine: le repassage (ironing), le ménage (housework), le sein (breast), l’accouchement (giving birth), le feminisme… feminine: une bitte (sl. – penis), la guerre (war), la paresse (sloth, laziness)… i propose a wholesale revision of the french dictionary and will be writing to the académie française forthwith. comments (20) september 27, 2004 public displays of gluttony filed under: miam — petiteanglaiseparis @ 4:08 pm i gave in to temptation this morning and bought a pain au chocolat on the way to work. the chocolate was warm and runny and the pastry was so buttery that the paper bag gradually became transparent in places. it smellt heavenly. but i didn’t eat it there and then. no! i waited an excruciating half an hour until i had arrived at the office before tucking in. why? not because i enjoy torturing myself, but because in france you just don’t see people eating in public places. it is just not the done thing. if you do decide to snack in public, you must be prepared for some funny looks and even passers-by wishing you “bon appétit” in a sarcastic, disapproving manner. this is one of the things i think the french have got right. eating here is something to be taken slowly and seriously: you don’t cram food in your mouth while running down the metro escalator, you sit down, and probably have a much healthier digestive experience as a result. although many people now use the restaurant tickets their employers provide to buy a take-away lunch of sandwiches or salad to eat in the work kitchen or – if they work in an anglo-saxon company – at their desk, there are still just as many who eat a proper two or three course meal in a restaurant. in some parts of town every second building houses a different café, restaurant, bistrot or brasserie; without lunchtime diners i doubt even half of these would survive. snacking between meals does not seem to be part of french culture. go into any tabac and instead of several square metres of confectionery (as you would find in the uk), you’ll have to choose between a solitary twix, a couple of snickers bars, and a dust-covered kit kat, all housed behind a glass case next to the cashier. crisps are not even sold in single-serving small packets (nor in appetising flavours). they are meant only as an accompaniment to the evening’s aperitif, not as a between meals stop-gap. cakes on sale at boulangeries/pâtisseries are mostly the layered moussey type which require the use of cutlery, not easily eaten on the run. you might have noticed that vending machines have recently been introduced in metro stations, but i am the only person i have ever seen buying food from them, on the rare occasions that they are working. on trips home to england, my eyes light up when i see the tantalising array of candy on the shelves. it seems every chocolate bar i grew up with has spawned five or more different flavoured offspring, or been subtley changed and rebranded as an entirely new product. but maybe there is just too much choice? sometimes it is all too much and i end up walking away empty handed. and let’s face it, the uk’s growing obesity problem must have a lot to do with our snack culture. i have been known to moan (me? moan?) about how it is not fair that french women are generally stick thin and hipless – but perhaps if i hadn’t been brought up on a diet of rowntree’s misshapes i too would have an androgynous figure and would not be subject to sugar/salt cravings at inappropriate times of day. talking of which, i would kill for a cadbury’s flake right now. or a curly wurly… comments (4) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel