petite anglaise september 30, 2005 this corrosion filed under: navel gazing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:20 pm because i never experienced jealousy when i was in a relationship with mr frog, i wrongly assumed i had kicked the habit. not so. the green eyed monster was only lying dormant; in prolonged hibernation. i wonder now whether this absence of jealousy wasn’t a warning sign, which should have alerted me to the plain fact that my feelings didn’t run deep enough. i was complacent, secure in my belief that whatever our failings as a couple, he wouldn’t look elsewhere. despite late nights spent in the office in the company of pneumatic young stagiaires, and nights out on the town with colleagues, to which i was never invited. which could have been a cause for concern, but only aroused resentment and bitterness that i was trapped at home, while he was out in the real world seeing people and socialising. now, for the first time in eight years, i am subject to bouts of totally irrational, corrosive jealousy. i hate myself for even having these feelings. as if wildly unpredictable mood swings weren’t enough for any man to deal with. it’s not that i don’t trust the man in my life, or the women he is friends with, whether they be old flames or not. on a rational level i know that he is a very moral and proper person. i also know that he is so hopelessly smitten with me that he is willing to overlook all my failings. but this is purely irrational, and no amount of reasoning – with him, or myself – can lay these demons to rest. because i’m not jealous of anyone in his present. it’s his past i have a problem with. sometimes i find myself wishing i could erase whole swathes of his history. those dark times when another woman was there to pick him up when he stumbled and fell, to comfort him, to heal him, to put him back together again. wildly contrasting highs and lows, moments which i fear were more intense than any we may live together. i know that these things have made him who he is today. her influence has helped to mould him into the person i fell in love with. and yet, even though i understand this, i want to make these times disappear. to erase them. overwrite them. this jealously is a form of masochism. when i’m alone, feeling low, i torture myself. willingly. vivid pictures of their shared past swim before my eyes and try as i might, i can’t banish them. words that he used to describe that period of his life, in emails i received long before we were an item, play over and over inside my head, refusing to be silenced. i can’t make this stop, so my strategy is to share these feelings with my lover, preventing them from festering quietly below the surface, only to erupt one day and cause irreparable harm. i can only hope that one fine morning i will wake up and realise these feelings have left me. comments (61) september 28, 2005 guess who? filed under: tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 5:38 pm i’m afraid i haven’t got around to posting today, so instead i leave you to guess which of the “people” depicted on this delightful drawing by tadpole (aged 2 yrs and 3 months) is supposed to be yours truly. comments (46) september 27, 2005 what not to eat filed under: miam — petiteanglaiseparis @ 2:49 pm i think i will have to resign myself to the fact that i am doomed never to be mistaken for an elegant parisienne. i haven’t the faintest idea how to knot a hermès scarf just so around my neck. in fact, i’ll go so far as to admit that i don’t even care for hermès scarves. nor have i ever understood the whole jumper knotted loosely around shoulders over the top of winter coat look. unlike most french girls, i am congenitally incapable of arranging my hair in a charmingly dishevelled little chignon, so that it looks as though it was twisted up and secured with a pencil in less than twenty seconds (a look which i suspect takes half an hour to achieve). i simply don’t look french, a point which was confirmed by several (disappointed) british bloggers i met recently. even if looks don”t betray my non french origins, my uncouth foreign behaviour inevitably will. whether it be downing several beers in quick succession, or partaking of snacks in public places, something will always give me away. which brings me neatly to the story of the ill advised bolognaise panini on the line 7 métro. the scene: horribly late for work, following a distastrous morning where a suspected, but in fact non-existent, infantile tummy upset and an errant nanny with no mobile phone conspired to force me to take a whole morning off work. one sixth of my precious three statutory days off to care for a sick child squandered for no good reason. having finally deposited the irritatingly high-spirited, perfectly healthy tadpole with the childminder, i realised i wasn’t going to have time to grab lunch before work, so there was no alternative but to eat on the run. my hungry eyes spied a baker’s shop by the entrance to the metro. upon closer inspection however, the sandwiches on offer did not look particularly appetising. french bread may in itself be a very lovely thing, but many shops don’t use a great deal of imagination when concocting their sandwich fillings. ham and plastic emmental cheese. plastic emmental cheese with salad. rosette sausage. nothing which took my fancy. and after the stress of the morning, i craved something slightly naughty, as a pick me up. my attention was arrested by a small, handwritten sign advertising paninis. i enquired about available fillings. they were a little odd. the classic mozzarella and cheese, or mozzarella and italian ham had sold out, so all that remained were steack haché and bolognaise flavours. i opted for bolognaise, in what i can only describe as a moment of temporary insanity. i regretted my choice almost immediately. it took for ever to cook. standing next to a refrigerated cabinet of cakes, i tapped my foot nervously and glanced compulsively at my watch every thirty seconds or so. but it was too late to change my mind now, i had already paid. and the baker’s wife is a scary looking, red-faced person; not a woman whose feathers you would want to ruffle. at last, the panini was toasted, and the lady handed it to me in its long paper bag with a single serviette. i snatched and ran. into the métro, down the steps and onto the platform, where i paused, and first became aware of my predicament. the paper bag was already translucent with grease, and rather a large amount of bolognaise and cheese filling appeared to have freed itself from the confines of the bread and and oozed down into a corner of the bag, which was visibly weakening by the second. the serviette was already drenched, my fingers slick with sauce. just when i thought things couldn’t get any worse, the bag began to drip. garish red liquid, which narrowly missed my clothes, occasionally splattering one of my shoes. it also occured to me that the contents of my sandwich did not look dissimilar to the nappies i had changed that morning. which clearly didn’t help. any sane person would have consigned the cursed sandwich there and then to the nearest rubbish bin, but my rumbling tummy and sheer pigheadedness prevented me from doing so. so, drawing a small amount of comfort from the fact that paris is a big city and none of the people sharing my métro carriage were ever likely to lay eyes on me again, i slumped down on an available strapontin and began nibbling gingerly at a corner of the sandwich from hell, studiously avoiding eye contact with my fellow passengers. pieces of minced meat leapt out and deposited themselves on the floor of the carriage around me. a piping hot chunk of chopped tomato landed on my toes. the bag continued to drip, drip, drip, even enveloped in my entire packet of emergency tissues. i had to hold the sandwich away from my body after every cursed bite, whilst i used a baby wipe on my mouth and chin, so as not to look like some sort of crazed métro vampire. a perfectly groomed parisienne got on at chaussée d’antin and wrinkled her delicate nose in distaste at the odour of my food. the only available seat was next to mine, and she declined to take it, preferring to stand well out of range. i could imagine what she was thinking only to well. judging by her figure, she had never so much as sniffed a panini in her entire life, and the only thing which she would deign to put to her lips in a public place would be a bottle of evian. my journey over, i dropped the greasy packaging and remnants into a bin, wiped down my shoes and peeping toes, and inspected my trousers. and emerged from the métro vowing never to buy a bolognaise panini as long as i live. even english girls have their limits. comments (44) september 23, 2005 candles filed under: miam, parting ways, tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 2:51 pm “got to find some cake!” shouts tadpole, at the top of her lungs, to no-one in particular. she has got into the habit of repeating everything i say, turning the words over in her mouth so see how they sound. as a result, i have to exercise extreme caution when we are out and about. no more thinking aloud along the lines of “i must remember to pack some seriously negligent pants for the weekend”. i am feeling rather desperate. mr frog is due to appear to whisk off tadpole for the evening in just under half an hour, and i promised tadpole we would have surprise cake and candles for his birthday. forgetting a key piece of information when i did so: our local bakery is closed on wednesdays and thursdays. i peer half-heartedly through the window of the chinese takeaway, with its unappetising looking boules de coco and almond tarts. not really mr frog’s thing, and definitely not tadpole’s. how about a brownie from the kosher sushi and bagel emporium across the road? no go. the metal shutters are pulled firmly closed. with a sigh, i retrace my steps towards the garage, which harbours a huit à huit minimarket. cake out of a packet will have to do. sacrilegious in a country where the pâtisserie fare is so unbelievable, and the packaged cakes so dire, but it can’t be helped. intentions: good. execution: room for improvement. the minimarket has a predictably poor selection. some tired looking madeleines, a cake anglais (which generally refers to a rather pale and wan fruit cake containing glacé cherries, the likes of which i have yet to actually eat in england), and a bag of individually wrapped fondants au chocolat. i settle for the chocolate cakes, and dash home. mr frog appears, shortly after the appointed hour, and i ask him to stay for a beer, to give me an excuse to repair to the kitchen. i have arranged three cakes on a plate, a striped blue candle lolling at a drunken angle in the centre of each. tadpole, the soul of discretion, says “happy birthday cake mummy” in a stage whisper as i am leaving the room, but i don’t think mr frog notices. as i bring my masterpiece through to the living room, tadpole starts singing “happy birthday” right on cue. mr frog looks up, startled, and i can see he is genuinely touched. for a fleeting moment, i catch myself wishing that we were still living together as a little family, sharing moments like this every day. comments (37) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel