about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ seriously good vegetable soup 219 comments jump to recipe you know how most vegetable soups are pretty tired and “blah”? not this one! this hearty homemade vegetable soup is full of fresh, wholesome flavors. i’m excited to share this vegetable soup recipe with you. it’s honestly the best i’ve ever had, and i hope you’ll agree. you just might have all the ingredients you’ll need to make this easy soup on hand already. i can think of so many reasons to make this soup. warm up with a big bowl of veggie soup on a cold day. make it for someone who’s under the weather. my husband has a cold and it’s snowing outside as i type, so this soup is just what we need right now. prepare a batch and you’ll have a healthy side dish ready to go for the rest of the week. this soup is a great way to lighten up heavier meals, especially as we get into the holidays. did i mention that it’s vegetarian, vegan and gluten free for all to enjoy? vegetable options for vegetable soup this homemade vegetable soup is versatile by design, so you can enjoy it from fall through winter. we’ll use onion, carrots and celery as a base. we’ll also add two cups of seasonal vegetables to make this soup more hearty and interesting. choose from veggies you have on hand, or grab your favorites at the store. any of these will work: sweet potatoes or regular potatoes, cut into 1/2-inch cubes butternut squash, cut into 1/2-inch cubes green beans, trimmed and cut into 1-inch long segments bell pepper, chopped cauliflower, cut into very small bite-sized pieces zucchini or yellow squash, chopped fresh greens: kale, collard greens, chard, or spinach how to make the best vegetable soup we’ll use several simple techniques to build flavor as we cook this soup. here’s how: 1) start with the veggies. we’ll sauté chopped onion, celery, carrots and seasonal vegetables in olive oil, with some salt. this softens them up and enhances their flavors. adding salt during different stages of the cooking process builds more flavor than simply adding it all at the end. 2) add fresh minced garlic, curry powder, and dried thyme. sautéing these ingredients for about 1 minute wakes up their flavors, but isn’t long enough to risk burning the garlic (burnt garlic tastes awful). curry powder is the secret to making this soup so delicious. we aren’t adding much. you probably won’t be able to pinpoint the flavor, but it adds some subtle intrigue and warmth to this soup. i’ve also used curry powder in my lentil soup and chickpea noodle soup as well, and it always works like a charm. 3) add canned diced tomatoes with their juices. we’ll cook them all together for a couple of minutes to reduce any tinny flavors. i used fire-roasted diced tomatoes for these photos, but regular diced tomatoes were just as good. i always recommend using muir glen brand of tomatoes because they taste the best and come in bpa-free cans. 4) almost done—add some vegetable broth, water, and more flavorings. vegetable broth keeps this soup vegetarian/vegan. we’ll also add bay leaves, red pepper flakes, and a little more salt. if you’re sensitive to spice, you can reduce or omit the red pepper flakes. if you love spice like me, you might even want to double the amount at the end (add to taste). regardless, we’ll let the soup gently simmer for 25 minutes so the flavors can meld together. 5) add chopped fresh greens and finally, some fresh lemon juice. lastly, we’ll add chopped greens for health bonus points, and simmer for 5 minutes to soften them up. before serving, we’ll brighten up the soup with a big squeeze of lemon juice (one of my other go-to soup tricks) and add another splash of olive oil for rich flavor. taste the soup before and after these additions, and you’ll notice a big difference! finally, season to taste with salt and pepper, as necessary. watch how to make vegetable soup please let me know how this soup turns out in the comments. i love hearing from you, and your feedback encourages other readers to try the recipe. craving more hearty, healthy, meatless soups this season? me, too. here are a few more great options: classic minestrone soup best lentil soup chickpea noodle soup pasta e fagioli (italian pasta and beans soup) quinoa vegetable soup with kale sweet potato, kale and chickpea soup don’t miss the hearty soups in my cookbook, love real food. they’re some of my favorites! print seriously good vegetable soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 15 minutes cook time: 45 minutes total time: 1 hour yield: 6 bowls 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: mediterranean ★★★★★ 4.9 from 108 reviews this vegetable soup recipe is seriously so good! it’s easy to make, and full of veggies and fresh flavor. if you’re feeing under the weather or just wanting to lighten up your meals, this soup is the answer. recipe yields 6 bowls of soup. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 4 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil, divided 1 medium yellow or white onion, chopped 3 carrots, peeled and chopped 2 celery stalks, chopped 2 cups chopped seasonal vegetables, such as sweet potatoes, green beans, butternut squash, potatoes, bell pepper, zucchini or yellow squash 1 teaspoon fine sea salt, divided, to taste 6 cloves garlic, pressed or minced ½ teaspoon curry powder ½ teaspoon dried thyme 1 large can (28 ounces) diced tomatoes 4 cups (32 ounces) vegetable broth 2 cups water 2 bay leaves ½ teaspoon red pepper flakes, reduce or omit if sensitive to spice freshly ground black pepper, to taste 2 cups chopped kale or collard greens or chard (thick ribs removed), or spinach 1 tablespoon lemon juice instructions warm 3 tablespoons of the olive oil in a large dutch oven or soup pot over medium heat. once the oil is shimmering, add the chopped onion, carrot, celery, seasonal vegetables and ½ teaspoon of the salt. cook, stirring often, until the onion has softened and is turning translucent, about 6 to 8 minutes. add the garlic, curry powder and thyme. cook until fragrant while stirring frequently, about 1 minute. pour in the diced tomatoes with their juices and cook for a few more minutes, stirring often. pour in the broth and water. add ½ teaspoon more salt, 2 bay leaves and the red pepper flakes. season generously with freshly ground black pepper. raise the heat and bring the mixture to a boil, then partially cover the pot and reduce heat to maintain a gentle simmer. cook for 25 minutes, then remove the lid and add the chopped greens. continue simmering for 5 minutes or more, until the greens have softened to your liking. remove the pot from heat and remove the bay leaves. stir in the lemon juice and remaining 1 tablespoon of olive oil. taste and season with more salt, pepper and/or red pepper flakes. (you might need up to ½ teaspoon more salt, depending on your vegetable broth and your personal preferences.) divide into bowls and enjoy. notes recipe adapted from my quinoa vegetable soup and lentil soup. storage suggestions: this soup keeps well in the refrigerator for about 4 days. it freezes and defrosts well if you want to freeze extra portions for later! recommended equipment: i’m convinced that everything i cook in my dutch oven (affiliate link) comes out extra delicious. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes quinoa vegetable soup with kale classic minestrone soup chickpea noodle soup share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories budget friendly, dairy free, egg free, fall, gluten free, mediterranean, nut free, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, side dishes, soups and stews, soy free, thanksgiving, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients butternut squash, carrots, celery, green beans, kale, potatoes, spinach, sweet potatoes ↢ newer favorite green salad with apples, cranberries and pepitas older ↣ chilaquiles rojos by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) leigh february 8, 2020 absolutely delicious! it’s a cold and snowy michigan day; so i decided to make this soup since i had all of the main ingredients on-hand. i used a red potato, rutabega, sweet potato, garbanzo beans, and left over collard greens. i also cooked two whole grain/stone-ground hot water cornbread patties. it’s the best veggie soup i’ve ever eaten. (yes, curry powder is a key ingredient.) ★★★★★ reply carol february 9, 2020 the soup was so delicious. i am on the whole30 program, so it goes perfectly with that. i didn’t have curry powder, so i used chili powder and red pepper flakes. i like my soups with mild spice. thank you for the recipe! reply mahendra february 15, 2020 five star. the best vegetable soup i have made reply gordon february 20, 2020 the vegetable soup was fantastic. i uses 2 teaspoons of dried thyme, two teaspoons of dried oregano and one teaspoon of dried sage. i also added two tablespoons of knorr chicken broth powder reply k-anne february 20, 2020 this soup was excellent!!! it even hit home with my occasionally veggie-aversed children. the touch of curry and red pepper flakes add nice flavor and zip without being overwhelming. we threw in fresh spinach, cauliflower and zucchini and it was delish. you could virtually add any veggie to that broth and it would be wonderful. thanks for yet another wonderful recipe! ★★★★★ reply jodi february 21, 2020 nc had it’s first snowstorm yesterday, and i had this wonderful soup! thank you for the delicious recipe, can’t wait to make it again. reply laurel february 25, 2020 wonderful! i doubled the seasonal veggies since i had so many and it was fabulous. ★★★★★ reply stacey february 26, 2020 would this work in a crock pot? suggestions? it looks delicious! reply patty february 27, 2020 i made this last week with beef broth and a lb of lean ground beef but no tomatoes. it was delicious. the curry gives a nice subtle flavor. today i’m trying it with veg broth and bella mushrooms for my vegetarian nephew. hope he likes it. ★★★★★ reply anne kennon february 29, 2020 this looks like the perfect use of my box of misfits veggies i just got! how can i tweak the instructions so i can make this in my slow cooker? reply mbowe march 1, 2020 this soup is fantastic. garlic taste is strong with 6 cloves – adjust if needed. truly tasty! ★★★★★ reply anika march 2, 2020 great instructions and dang- the curry, thyme and garlic were a trifecta of genius. gotta admit, i was afraid of all the garlic but it worked beautifully. the red pepper flakes added some zip! i did: sweet potato, kale, corn, onion, fire grilled tomatoes, celery, carrots, green beans & touch of cabbage. ★★★★★ reply rebecca march 3, 2020 i’ve made the soup at least five times in the last couple months. delicious every time. one time i was out of veggie broth and i just used water, and it was still delicious. highly recommend. i used sweet potatoes and butternut squash for the seasonal vegetables. ★★★★★ reply catherine march 4, 2020 i made a pot of this monday so i would have leftovers for lunch through the week, it is soo good!!! ★★★★★ reply vivian march 7, 2020 fabulously delicious! that curry powder makes a big (awesome) difference-but it doesn’t taste like “curry”. really great recipe. thank you!! ★★★★★ reply krista march 12, 2020 this soup was delicious and i will keep making it. i followed recipe with no variations. yumm ★★★★★ reply marlene poulin march 13, 2020 it is a delicious recipe. my famíly enjoyed a lot. thanks so much!! reply jade march 14, 2020 jade arsenal matchtröjor barn tredje fotbollströja 2020arsenal matchtröjor arsenal matchtröjor billiga fotbollskläder lacazette 9 barn borta fotbollströja 2020arsenal rosal ★★★★★ reply veronica kulig march 14, 2020 love this recipe! definitely a keeper. ★★★★★ reply gabby march 14, 2020 made this soup for supper today. my husband is not a big fan of tomato based soup, so i used a smaller can of diced tomatoes. otherwise i followed the recipe, used green beans and butternut squash along with the onions, carrots and celery, and added spinach at the end. yummy!!! reply shayna march 14, 2020 shayna die fußball-trikots von fortuna düsseldorf sind nicht gerade ein schnäppchenwir geben tipps fußballtrikots günstig kaufen, wie sie original fortuna-trikots deutlich billiger kaufen carlo ★★★★★ reply gwen march 14, 2020 gwen maglie calcio a poco prezzo, completi da calcio, abbigliamento sportivo da personalizzare online maglie calcio a poco prezzo. chris ★★★★★ reply serra dernberger march 15, 2020 really yummy soup! i added shredded beecher’s cheddar and panko bread crumbs, on top, and gratained it. superb! ★★★★★ reply shreya khastagir march 19, 2020 came out really well! loved the flavours in the soup.thanks for the recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate march 19, 2020 i’m happy to hear that! reply maureen march 20, 2020 this is a great recipe – my husband can’t get enough so i’m making it again today … very forgiving to use your fresh or frozen produce up ! thanks for sharing ★★★★★ reply kate march 20, 2020 you’re welcome, maureen! i’m glad you were able to use some of what you had on hand. reply wendy f jochems march 20, 2020 i enjoyed prepping all the wonderful veggies for this recipe. hoping the outcome would be good. i have made classic vegie soup recipes before but this one…yum. thank you! so glad to have found you and your veggie recipes! i added a little of our herbes de provence as a garnish. definitely be making more! wendy ★★★★★ reply jeri baker march 21, 2020 i made this soup and the whole family loved it. we have some prime ribs in the freezer, left from holidays. could you add meat to this recipe? or, maybe just enjoy as is and use meat for another recipe. reply kate march 23, 2020 hi, you could but of course i’m a vegetarian so love it this way. :) reply susan sedlachek march 22, 2020 seriously fabulous vegetable soup – the combination of vegetables, spices (wonderful), and lemon juice – fantastic. in the future, if we want vegetable soup this is the recipe. ★★★★★ reply kat march 23, 2020 great recipe! for added depth add 1 tbsp of balsamic vinegar and 1 tbsp of worcestershire sauce toward the end. i also added 1 cup of dried soup mix (mix of 12 beans/lentils). super filling & tasty :) ★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 thank you, kat! reply les march 23, 2020 dear kate, i am an older chap who has started mending a life-time of bad eating habits. i am trying to use the ‘flexitarian’ approach and now eat little meat, either red or white. on monday last, i found your recipe and thought i would give it a go. well to say the least both myself and my wife were thrilled at the taste discovery that goes with this recipe. so my daughter and the family were coming over later in the week for a dinner, and i decided soup it was going to be. she had her nose half turned up at the idea of me cooking soup. but guess who was first back to the pot after the first serving….lol. this is a brilliant recipe and will become a standard in our home. thank you for sharing it with your readers. les ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 i’m glad you came across this recipe, les! thanks for your comment and review. reply jenn march 23, 2020 the curry, though subtle, puts this soup over the top delicious. give it go. ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 the curry does really help make this soup! thanks for your review, jenn. reply rose march 24, 2020 i absolutely love this soup. i’ve prepared it with zucchini and butternut squash and, this time (because i’ve made it a few times) i added a bit of pearl barley, too, just to make a full meal. it turned out wonderfully! thank you! ★★★★★ reply sarah brink march 25, 2020 i was so happy to find this recipe to use up the vegetables that i had. because of being indoors, i could not go to the grocery store to buy what i didn’t have. it was still delicious- i left out the tomatoes, lemon juice and mistakenly added way too much curry powder. this will be a recipe i use often, especially while it’s cold outside and we are all social distancing. ★★★★★ reply kate march 26, 2020 i’m glad you could enjoy it, sarah! reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}