australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video entertainment 03/27/2020 12:51 edt seth meyers challenges trump to risky game to prove coronavirus conspiracy theory the "late night" host went on a feverish takedown of the president's covid-19 incompetence. by ron dicker, huffpost us as president donald trump continued to defy health officials and call for america to get back to work, seth meyers hit back hard in a “late night” segment from home thursday. (see the video above.) the talk show host had enough of trump’s repeated claim that the mainstream media is rooting for the country to remain shut down because it will hurt his reelection chances. many outlets have echoed health experts’ warning that easing social distancing too soon could prove catastrophic. so meyers proposed a little game for the president to play. “if you think it’s all a conspiracy, why don’t you go outside and ask a bunch of people to cough on you?” the comedian suggested. “just go out, onto the streets of d.c., with a mic, and give people a dollar to cough on you. you can call it ‘bully on the street.’” meyers had some funny moments but was dead serious at times in putting the president in his place. he called out trump for rejecting new york gov. andrew cuomo’s plea for thousands of ventilators in an area that has become the nationwide epicenter for covid-19. cuomo has been critical of trump. “it’s a two-way street,” trump said of his relationship with state governors, in a clip shown by meyers. “they have to treat us well, also.” “no, they don’t. it’s your job,” meyers snapped. “they don’t owe you anything for doing your job. states don’t pay tribute to the president.” meyers slammed trump for his desperation to prematurely get business rolling again “to appease the stock market.” “when the green arrow goes up, all the business schools around tell him how great he is,” the host said. “that’s what he lives for. someone should just show him the chart of coronavirus cases in the u.s. and tell him it’s the dow jones.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. related... jimmy kimmel gives savage new nickname to trump in coronavirus era courteney cox shows her fridge and pantry in quarantine — and it's so monica seth meyers explains why trump is 'fundamentally unequipped' to lead now hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it suggest a correction ron dicker general assignment reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus seth meyers covid-19 late night with seth meyers trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.