home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » sewing easy diy hand warmers you’ll want to take everywhere february 26, 2020 karen decor hint leave a comment since most of us are in the full swing of winter, i thought hand warmers would be the perfect diy project for your weekend. learn how to make these easy diy hand warmers you'll want to take everywhere! easy diy hand warmers you'll want to take everywhere friends! i’m so … [read more...] arts and craft, diy, fabric, sewing, tutorial 25 diy sewing projects to help you learn to sew october 2, 2019 sheri leave a comment do you want to learn to sew or maybe practice some of the basic skills that you already know? these tutorials are a perfect collection of projects that will help you do just that! they are simple enough for beginners and creative enough for anyone that knows or is learning to … [read more...] sewing diy, roundup, sewing, tutorial simple and stylish diy fabric tissue box cover july 24, 2019 karen decor hint 1 comment hey guys, happy summer! i’m back today with another easy home project for you - a simple stylish diy fabric tissue box cover. i don’t know about you, but i think most tissue boxes are tacky. they stick out like a sore thumb in our house! unfortunately, it’s not the type of … [read more...] decor, decorating, diy, fabric, home decor, pottery barn inspiration, sewing, tutorial diy oilcloth drink coasters april 17, 2019 karen decor hint 3 comments diy oilcloth drink coasters hi there! i’m so thrilled to be back today with this super quick and easy project. the weather in seattle has been totally amazing lately and it’s got me thinking about summer. and, summer entertaining is on the brain! this project will look great … [read more...] decor, decorating, dining room, diy, fabric, gift ideas, home decor, july 4th, party, sewing, summer, tablescape, tutorial 41 decorative diy pillows march 13, 2019 sheri 1 comment 41 decorative diy pillows if you are looking for a quick and easy way to update any room in your house, change out your pillows! pillows are easy to add, move, re-cover, or take to another room. they are used for adding texture, pattern, and warmth to your space (and let's not … [read more...] arts and craft, decorating, diy, do it yourself, pillows, sewing how to make a felt letter pillow cover february 27, 2019 karen decor hint leave a comment how to make a felt letter pillow cover friends! i’m so excited to be back today with a new project for you, a diy felt letter pillow cover. one of my favorite things to do is to scour home decor stores for inspiration for my kids' rooms. i love trying to recreate trendy looks … [read more...] bedroom, decorating, home decor, kids room, pillows, sewing, tutorial diy garden flags for every season february 17, 2017 colleen jorgensen 5 comments hi pretty handy girl readers! it's colleen from just paint it with a fun collection. one of the easiest and cutest ways to decorate your home's entrance is with garden flags. did you know if you use a placemat, there's little—if any—sewing! find the perfect diy garden flag for … [read more...] arts and craft, garden flag, sewing home state pride garden flag from a placemat february 13, 2017 brittany bailey 9 comments you know i'm a lover of saving money when it comes to decorating. that's why i love to create garden flags made from placemats! they are the perfect size for a garden flag stand. you can decorate flags using a variety of paints, fabric and even fake flowers. best of all, if you … [read more...] sewing how to sew reversible recipe placemats january 13, 2017 brittany bailey 7 comments a few months ago, my husband's grandmother passed away. she was an amazing woman, super smart, and always had a kind word to say about anything. she also had an amazing laugh, the kind that brought you to laughter yourself. recently i came across the box full of recipes that she … [read more...] sewing summer garden flag from a dollar store placemat july 8, 2016 brittany bailey 31 comments i have to admit, i'm a little addicted to making garden flags out of fabric placemats from the dollar store (the dollar tree to be exact.) in fact this flag was made using all materials from the dollar tree. i bought fake flowers, bar towels and a placemat to make this summery … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, crafts, sewing make piping out of thrift store finds february 22, 2016 brittany bailey 5 comments i used to buy expensive piping from my local fabric store, until the day i learned how to make my own piping. when i saw how easy making custom piping is, i never bought another yard! more recently i found a way to make piping for even less! i frequent my local thrift stores in … [read more...] sewing make a boo-boo bear – a rice ice and heat pack december 30, 2015 larissa prodigal pieces 7 comments hello phg readers! i'm coming over from my blog, prodigal pieces, to share with you a sweet diy that is easy to whip up and will make everyone smile (not to mention it makes a perfect last-minute gift!). do you remember the days as a child when you would stumble and hurt your … [read more...] arts and craft, birthday gift, diy, do it yourself, gifts, kids art, sewing baby, bear, crafts, diy, gift idea, kids, play, sewing, tutorial 21 sew special gifts (you can make) november 9, 2015 colleen jorgensen 6 comments hello again, it's colleen from just paint it! i love making gifts for the holidays, and receiving them too. there's something so meaningful when you know someone has invested their precious time in a gift. today i have 21 sew special gifts. even if sewing isn't your specialty, … [read more...] gift ideas, gift wrapping, gifts, sewing framed wall quilt september 16, 2015 jaime costiglio today on the rockstar diy stage is jaime, with the tutorial to make this drop dead gorgeous framed wall quilt. if you can sew a straight line i promise you can make this framed wall quilt. you all are familiar with jaime from that's my letter, i'm sure! she's one of the … [read more...] art, decor, decorating, fabric, sewing finger-printed envelope star pillows august 24, 2015 brittany bailey 9 comments personalized finger-printed envelope star pillows are an easy and fun gift item to make. my boys and i enjoyed making these pillows for their home room teachers. we got the idea from cristina's beautiful seaside themed thumb print pillows. materials: fabric (i used … [read more...] accessories, decor, drop cloths, gift ideas, gifts, sewing 21 ways to make and decorate totebags august 7, 2015 colleen jorgensen 3 comments have you been enjoying all of the awesome tote bag tutorials this week? today we've rounded up even more sewing tutorials, decorating ideas, and an amazing crocheted tote bag. let's talk about 21 ways to make and decorate totebags. how to sew totebags: who can resist an … [read more...] arts and craft, contributor, diy, drop cloths, fabric, gifts, sewing, stencil gift bag, tote bag 1 2 3 4 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok