skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: sexism i made the pizza cinnamon rolls from mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter posted on jan 10, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay last night, i made cinnamon rolls. i’m not a huge fan of cinnamon rolls, per se, but this recipe was included in mario batali’s sexual misconduct apology letter, and so i feel compelled to make them. batali is not the first powerful man to request forgiveness for “inappropriate actions” towards his coworkers and employees. he is… keep reading i was harassed on a plane. stop asking what my husband was doing. posted on aug 25, 2016 posted in: personal essay on monday, i wrote about an incident that happened to me on a recent international flight. a passenger became verbally abusive and physically intimidating because i reclined my seat. it terrified me, and the flight crew moved us, after the guy made it clear that if i reclined my seat again he would not stop tormenting… keep reading bullying, sexism, and panic attacks on planes posted on aug 22, 2016 posted in: air travel, personal essay it’s a little past six a.m. here in seattle, but i’ve been up for more than three hours, trying to sleep, but inadvertently writing this post in my head. we returned from scotland yesterday, connecting through london to seattle – the last leg of the trip now so familiar to us, i know the… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.