menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies shado evans latest posts gay men and the culture of sexual compulsive destruction everybody handles their scars differently. by shado evans, 17 oct 2018 views from the bottom of the slush pile: processing rejection depression maybe you should just surrender to the fact that you’re not as important as you want to be. by shado evans, 15 oct 2018 the realities of exiting your twenties life becomes one distraction after another. by shado evans, 14 jun 2018 the unedited truth about what it’s like to come out in high school i feel like i’ve lived a million lives since the days of living in the proverbial closet in high school. by shado evans, 8 jun 2018 a bad date with benzodiazepines we only became friends because whenever he was around, the drugs were free. i have absolutely no idea what he’s like when he’s sober. by shado evans, 10 may 2018 on avicii, top shelf vodka, and the summer love that never was the relationship gave off the air of what i assume is teenage love even though i was in my early 20s and he had just landed in his 30s. by shado evans, 29 apr 2018 the struggles of never coming out to your friends it was a sunny, spring, responsibility-free saturday afternoon — one of those beautiful days that was made for future nostalgia to treasure. by shado evans, 22 apr 2018 a lifetime of waiting for fridays friday. a palpable sigh of relief. a day of celebration for making it through the week without murdering anyone. by shado evans, 4 apr 2018 r.i.p. craigslist’s ‘men seeking men’ personals section the site consisted of crass dishonesty, but so did everything else in life. by shado evans, 28 mar 2018 all the numerous ways i’ve failed at curing my depression alienating people became the first thing i was successful at in a long time. by shado evans, 18 mar 2018 1 2 next » contact shado name email subject message send get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.