sharemoney, international money transfer digital marketing | seo & ppc think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 sharemoney marketing sharemoney makes it easier for more families to send money online with a redesigned website, improved user experience and global marketing campaign. sharemoney is a low cost money transfer service that lets people in the united states send remittances abroad to their friends and family in over 15 countries around the world. web design seo pay per click the challenge sharemoney is the remittance and money transfer portal of the omnex group, a leader in the money transfer industry for over 25 years. they came to smartsites looking to help grow their customer outreach with a fresh new website and complete digital marketing strategy. with their planned expansion into new markets, smartsites had to design and promote a website that would rank, scale and convert us visitors into new users for multiple countries worldwide. the plan redesign the current website to improve the sharemoney experience, from sign up to pick up. construct a sleek and easy-to-read logo. develop an on-site architecture to easily allow for the addition of new countries, pick up locations and languages. launch aggressive content marketing, link building & ppc campaigns to increase search traffic. the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in organic traffic 0% increase monthly transactions sharemoney exists as an international money transfer service check out sharemoney's cutting-edge desktop design. sharemoney's distinct mobile design shown on an ipad. sharemoney before & after responsive website redesign showcase get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha name this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies sharemoney recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect