bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr shared web hosting done right when building a website, start here. our shared service delivers a powerful, proven platform that's perfect for hosting your websites. choose plan basic ca$5.30/mo* normally ca$10.72 select 1 website 50 gb ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance 1 included domain 5 parked domains 25 subdomains plus ca$7.98/mo* normally ca$14.74 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains spam experts 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days choice plus ca$9.32/mo* normally ca$20.11 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate standard performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains spam experts domain privacy + protection site backup - codeguard basic 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days pro ca$18.71/mo* normally ca$32.18 select unlimited websites unlimited ssd storage unmetered bandwidth free ssl certificate high performance unlimited domains unlimited parked domains unlimited subdomains 2 spam experts domain privacy + protection site backup - codeguard basic dedicated ip 1 office 365 mailbox - free 30 days all plans include domains our domain manager makes it easy to track, update, transfer, purchase, and administer all of your domains in one place. plus and business pro accounts support unlimited add-on and parked domains, subdomains, and even domestic and international domains. resource protection our technology identifies websites using excessive resources and temporarily re-assigns them to isolated systems. this defends your website performance and mitigates the risk normally associated with shared servers. scalability start with what you need and move to more powerful options as your website grows. our custom technology lets you upgrade in just a few clicks. ssl certificates powered by let's encrypt, each ssl certificate provided helps secure the connection between websites and your visitors. this helps keep personal information, e-commerce transactions, and other sensitive data safeguarded. marketing credits receive $100 for microsoft advertising and $100 for google ads when you spend your first $25 on a new microsoft advertising and google ads account. get verified on google my business list your local business online to quickly connect with customers in your area. allow them to see your location and your hours of operation on google maps. advanced plans and add-ons upgrade your plan for advanced features or enhance your account with optional add-ons multi-server management need more than one account? add shared, vps, or even dedicated services to your account with ease. simply log in once and effortlessly manage all of your shared web hosting services in one place. access control create unique passwords restricting access to different areas of your account. generate one for billing and ownership information, one for cpanel and dedicated server access, and of course a master password for the entire account. content delivery network cloudflare is built directly into your account. an advanced content delivery network, it automatically increases the performance of your site. enable cloudflare instantly on any of your websites for free without any coding changes advanced capabilities use advanced capabilities like secure shell (ssh) access, server-side includes, log file access and web-based managers for files, databases and email. customize your own .htaccess files, cron jobs and php.ini files. unique ips enable advanced control of ports and further protect your account by securing an ip address assigned to your websites only. domain privacy + protection help to prevent identity theft, spam, and phishing attacks by masking the personal information associated with your domain name. receive sms alerts (message and data rates may apply) for changes to your domain and avoid domain blacklists with domain privacy + protection. sitelock defend your websites against attacks and malware by detecting and fixing vulnerabilities and threats before they cause problems. codeguard codeguard works behind the scenes, taking daily backups and saving each as a separate version - making it easy to turn back the clock should disaster strike. spam protection powered by google, postini filters out harmful and unwanted content before it reaches your inbox, isolating quarantined messages for you to review. see all features choose plan what is shared hosting? bluehost's shared hosting is perfect for getting started online. built on top of a reliable platform and backed by 24/7 expert support, bluehost's shared hosting is perfect for blogs, hobbies, and even small business websites. choose the plan that's right for you and get started quickly and easily. choose plan build it for me let our professional services team help design, build and market your website so you can stay focused on running your business. learn more at your service our team is on hand 24/7 to not only solve technical issues, but to offer the guidance and technical support you need to succeed online. give us a ring. 888-401-4678 chat frequently asked questions what is shared hosting? shared server hosting is the most common and affordable form of website hosting. multiple users will share the resources of a secured server or group of secured servers in order to put their websites online for others to view. bluehost offers several affordable shared hosting services so you can find the perfect shared hosting package for your website needs. what are shared hosting benefits? affordability is the #1 benefit of shared web hosting. however most shared hosting platforms are also managed, which means that users do not have to worry about things like server management and platform patches. what is the difference between shared vs wordpress hosting? shared website hosting is the platform in which wordpress can be utilized. there are some platforms that can be optimized specifically for wordpress, however in most cases managed wordpress hosting is synonymous with shared website hosting since wordpress is the most common cms. what is the difference between shared vs vps hosting? in unmetered shared hosting you are sharing the resources of a server with multiple users, which means a specific allotment of resources (ram, cpu, etc) are not guaranteed for your website. in virtual private server vps hosting, you are guaranteed resources for your website, however you are often required to manage the server yourself. how do i get started with shared hosting? bluehost is a web host provider that makes it easy to get started with one of the fastest shared hosting services on the market. simply select the shared web hosting plan that best suits your needs and follow the sign up flow. we will automatically install wordpress for you so you can quickly start building your dream website. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 complete hosting solutions starting at ca$5.30/month* get started × usage policies how much disk space and bandwidth is included with my plan? for packages supporting unmetered disk space or data transfer (bandwidth), we do not have defined limitations. these resources are "unmetered", meaning you are not billed according to the amount of disk space or bandwidth used. while of course these resources are not infinite, we believe our customers should have all the resources necessary to build an online presence and 99.95% of customers will have more than enough disk space and bandwidth to meet their needs. that said, we do require all customers to be fully compliant with our terms of service and utilize disk space and bandwidth in a manner consistent with the normal operation of a website. while rare, we occasionally constrain accounts utilizing more resources than should be the case in the normal operation of a personal or small business website. how do you determine "normal" operation? we regularly examine customer bandwidth and disk space utilization data in a series of statistical analyses and use the results to define "normal". although these tests vary from month to month, one thing remains constant: 99.95% of our customers fall into "normal" range. if your account's bandwidth or disk space utilization causes any concern, you will receive an email asking you to reduce usage. we strive to provide at least 48 hours notice to allow customers to make adjustments before we take any corrective action. it is very rare for a customer to exceed normal usage while managing a website. typically, customers only experience issues if they use their accounts for storage (for example large multimedia files) or file sharing. our hosting services are not intended to support these activities, and in accordance with our terms of service your disk space and bandwidth usage must be integrated into the normal operation of a website. we offer various plans that better address high bandwidth and large storage requirements. please contact us for details. what constraints exist on websites, domain names, or email? for plans or packages featuring unlimited websites, domains, or email accounts, we do not enforce any official limitations. customers are able to utilize as many of these features as they wish. that said, these are of course not infinite resources and there are inherent maximums associated with the technology powering them. for example, while email account creation is unlimited, these rely on the file storage available on the account. therefore customers need to be operating within the terms of service to ensure resources are available to fully enable email functionality. customers operating within the terms of service have yet to come up against technical boundaries for email, domains, or websites. × office 365 mailbox this plan includes 1 microsoft office 365 email essentials license, free for 30 days with the purchase of a hosting plan. your office 365 email essentials license will automatically renew monthly at the current renewal price until cancelled. you can cancel your automatic renewal at any time online or by phone. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.