i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: small batch japanese cotton cheesecake recipes → 30 minutes → shishito soba recipe jump to recipe 30 minutes/mains/meat free/quickie/recipe/recipes/that noodle life shishito soba recipe noodle roulette: cold soba noodles tossed in dashi-soy and a 1 in 10 chance at an extra spicy shishito pepper (the rest are mild). posted august 8, 2016 by stephanie give me all the shishitos, especially when simply blistered and tossed with some salt. these little green peppers are so addictive. and i like the whole russian roulette thing they have going on – only 1 in 10 turns out to be spicy. mike and i like to face off and eat them, with a straight face, taking turns. the one that ends up eating the spicy one is both the winner (because spicy!) and the loser (because, well, that’s how russian roulette works). this time around, we must’ve eaten about 15 or 16 before we got to a spicy one. it was funny though because we were laughing about the whole thing, thinking that we got a bunk batch with only mild peppers when all of a sudden i was like, oh wait – the 1 in 10 hot shishito really does exist! my mouth was on fire for the remaining peppers, but i didn’t mind because i’m all about the spice. these peppers were perfect with a tangle of ice water shocked soba seasoned with soy, garlic, dashi and a sprinkle of shichimi togarashi. the whole thing came together quickly, which is perfect for summer. to me, nothing beats a heaping dish of cold noodles in the late evening heat. especially if there’s a side of blistered shishitos to go with. spicy bliss. have a spicy one! xoxo steph ps – we’ve been nominated for a saveur blog award for most inspired weeknight dinners!! we’re over the moon excited because it’s completely unexpected. there are amazing blogs in all the categories, so hop on over to vote (daily) for who you love! maybe it’s even i am a food blog?! ;) shishito soba recipe serves 2 prep time: 5 minutes cook time: 10-15 minutes total time: 20 minutes 1-2 tablespoons soy sauce 2 teaspoons sesame oil 1 teaspoon dashi powder* 2 cloves garlic, minced freshly ground pepper oil, for the pan 6 ounces shishito peppers (about 2 cups) salt and freshly ground pepper 4 ounces soba noodles shichimi togarashi*, to finish seaweed strips, to finish sliced green onions, to finish in a small bowl, whisk together the soy sauce, sesame oil, dashi powder, garlic, and plenty of fresh pepper. set aside. heat a splash of oil in a cast-iron pan or heavy bottomed skillet over medium high heat. when shimmery, add the peppers and cook, turning occasionally, until blistered. remove from the heat and season with salt and pepper. cook the soba noodles according to the package, drain and rinse well in ice cold water, rubbing and swishing the noodles around with your hands. drain well and toss with the dressing. taste and adjust if needed. serve topped with shichimi togarashi, nori strips, green onions and a heaping side of blistered shishitos. enjoy! notes: if you haven’t heard of dashi powder, it’s basically instant soup stock. you can find it at your friendly local asian grocery store in the japanese section or on amazon.com. shichimi togarashi is also in the japanese section – it’s a mix of seven spices and it’s addictive on almost everything! 12 comments heather (delicious not gorgeous) says: august 8, 2016 at 9:08 am i’ve never had shishito peppers before, but it’s probably time to try. have you had bibim naengmyun? they’re cold spicy korean noodles that are my faveeee and they’re refreshing and perfect for summer. reply stephanie le says: august 8, 2016 at 12:14 pm shishitos are kinda like padrons, both are so good. i haven’t had naengmyun, but it sounds delish! reply emily says: august 8, 2016 at 12:03 pm i love your new site design, stephanie!! it’s so fantastic looking <3 also these peppers, oh my gosh :) congratulations on the nomination! heading over to vote :) :) reply stephanie le says: august 8, 2016 at 12:13 pm thanks emily!! mike did an awesome job, i’m in love with it!! and yes yes to shishitos!!! thanks for voting!! reply mandy says: august 8, 2016 at 12:50 pm i think we both have add when it comes to blog design lol ;p. congrats on the nominations! maybe we will see each other in ny this time! reply jack ebel says: august 8, 2016 at 2:12 pm i love your blog. i hope this is how i subscribe. reply allyson says: august 8, 2016 at 7:31 pm i’ve tried shishitos all of twice, and only as a bar snack, but this looks so damn good that i have to go try it now. reply ellie | from scratch mostly says: august 12, 2016 at 10:15 am omgness shishito is one of the best things ever!!!!!! it is so incredibly refreshing, great for whetting the appetite when there’s no appetite (but let’s face it, i only recall a handful of times in my life i didn’t want to eat hahaha), and so so good with plain rice, paired with raw sliced garlic, gochujang or bean/gochujang paste….. my mouth is watering thinking about it and this is such a great pairing. reply shareba says: august 12, 2016 at 5:06 pm i’ve been reading about shishito peppers for like 2 years now and i still haven’t tried one. i feel like i’m missing out! congrats on the nomination – i’ve voted ;) reply gem says: august 24, 2016 at 9:32 pm i love shishito peppers. i will normally grill them with a little sea salt in my small toaster oven. serves as a great snack. have not encountered a spicy one though. love this recipe :) reply hrmjj says: september 5, 2016 at 12:38 pm i live in vancouver but i can’t seem to find shishito peppers anywhere! where do you buy them? reply stephanie le says: september 6, 2016 at 11:44 am i usually buy them down in the states, at trader joes! i know, it’s crazy to cross the boarder for peppers, but i haven’t seen them here either. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website 20 minute mealsdashijapanesenoodlesshishitossobasoy other posts you might enjoy august 8, 2016 dim sum barbecue pork buns august 8, 2016 brown butter and toffee chocolate chip cookie recipe august 8, 2016 beer battered onion rings, jalapeno aioli & a vitamix giveaway! august 8, 2016 sunday brunch: tuna melt waffles august 8, 2016 mini chicken chili cups everything bagel spice aglio e olio pastaread better than takeout sesame noodlesread instant pot pasta and meatballsread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved