about shop blog book radical self love events about shop blog book radical self love events in the shop i want a boost radical self love letters 2020 every day, you’ll get a love letter from me, with the intention of making you feel good, putting a smile on your face, and reminding you that life is always beautiful — it’s just about how we look at it. buy now i want to heal tap that: now $49! tap that is an 8-part series to help you learn how to use emotional freedom technique (eft) — also known as tapping — to clear yourself of the blocks and limitations that have been holding you back. i used this technique to change my life in 2006 and i’ve never looked back. buy now i want to tap into my power magnetismo magnetismo (italian for magnetism!) is a year-long tapping (eft) program to help you step into your power. every month, you will be guided through two tailored tapping sessions. the letting go routine will focus on releasing pain, fear, resistance, resentment, and any limiting beliefs that are holding you back. the allowing routine will help you double-down on confidence, personal power, acceptance, motivation, and feeling good! buy now i want to feel wealthy radical rituals: abundance my most popular course ever! wealth isn’t just about having money in your wallet, it’s also about figuring out what makes you feel abundant. over the course of two weeks, i’m going to lead you through a series of rituals, exercises, and activities to clean up your money mindset, bust through your blocks, and manifest cold, hard cash. it’s time to reset your abundance attitude! buy now i want to manifest more money radical rituals: abundance level 2 this class is open for a limited time! it’s fantastic to change how you feel about your financial situation. but once you’ve done that, it’s time to really step it up. why not discover how to make money while you sleep? why not attract really high profile clients who pay you what you’re worth? why not step into believing that you are truly worth it? buy now i want to find love metaphysical matchmaker finding the right person — whether it’s ms right or mr right now — isn’t about money, looks, or power (no matter what television might tell you). it’s about having the right mindset. when you overhaul your attitude, everything changes, and when you understand your personal power, you become a magnet for what you want. over the course of three weeks, i’ll show you how to approach dating from a brand new angle, and we’ll work together to create an online dating profile that showcases your most glorious self… and draws in exactly what you’re looking for. buy now i want a total reset unicorn cleanse the best gifts you can give yourself are a clear mind, a joyful heart, and plenty of energy. when you have those, everything else flows easily. the unicorn cleanse is a two week online program where you will discover how to detoxify your mind, let go of the things that are holding you back, and really and truly feel good! together we will uncover ways to stop looking for problems, to leave the past behind, to hit pause on projecting fears into the future, and raise your vibration so that you feel unstoppable! buy now i want to forget my ex love rehab when it comes to heartbreak, the hardest thing is truly letting our ex go. no matter whether it was a marriage or a summer fling, as long as you’re still hung up on your past love, it’s almost impossible for you to move on, feel good, trust yourself, or fall in love again. we’re going to untangle you from your last relationship so you can get out into the world and be your most badass self. buy now books radical radiance how incredible could life be if you made feeling good your priority? what could happen? what would your life look like if you had unlimited confidence — not just in yourself, but in your ability to create? how big could you go? the answer: completely stratospheric! radical radiance is your absolutely everything guide to manifesting, feeling good, and creating the most delicious life! radical self-love book radical self-love is designed to be your ultimate guide to living the life you’ve only dreamed about. you’ll discover exactly what makes you so magnificent, and you’ll gain a litany of tools and techniques to help you manifest a life bursting with magic, miracles, bliss, and adventure! @galadarling on instagram load more... about shop blog book radical self love events instagram twitter facebook youtube pinterest contact love@galadarling.com subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content! © darling industries. all rights reserved. design and development by we are branch. | disclaimer subscribe to my newsletter receive a free worksheet when you join plus exclusive content!