kano-icons-hamburger close button products kano-icons-computerkitcomputer kit kano-icons-kano-coding-kitharry potter kano coding kit sw-kit-nav-iconcreated with sketch.star wars the force™ coding kit fir-kit-nav-iconcreated with sketch.disney frozen 2 coding kit view all products educationdownloadsstore locatorblog help help pointer contact ushelp centrecareerscommunity products menu item pointereducationdownloads blogstore locator help menu item pointer contact us help center careers community kano cart icon kano-icons-cross computer kit $149.99 harry potter kano coding kit $99.99 star wars the force™ coding kit $79.99 disney frozen 2 coding kit $79.99 view all products anyone can make harry potter kano coding kit build a wand, learn to code, and make magic. $99.99 learn more star wars the force™ coding kit code your galaxy $79.99 learn more kano pc build a windows 10 powered pc, and go on to learn next generation skills with exclusive on-board content and curriculum. $299.99 learn more disney frozen 2 coding kit awaken the elements $79.99 learn more computer kit touch build and code a raspberry 3 powered computer. $279.99 learn more computer kit build a computer, then learn to code art, music and games. out of stock $149.99 learn more pixel kit build and code dazzling lights. create apps and games. out of stock $79.99 learn more motion sensor kit our simplest coding kit, for movers, shakers and makers. $29.99 learn more sign up for kano updates receive the latest news, offers, and projects oops. try typing your email address again. thank you for signing up! email address sign me up by giving us your email address you are opting-in to receive the latest news, offers, promotions and competitions from kano. take a peek at how we are using your data. kano_store-flags-1 us kano_store-flags-1 uk kano_store-flags-1 us flag-cn ca kano_store-flags-1 eu kano_store-flags-1 rowstore finder kano reviews downloads careers about us shop online shop education support faq contact us press blog community legals terms of use privacy policy terms of supply map policy copyright © 2020 kano. all rights reserved. our warranties. kano one year free warranty standard manufacturer limited warranty; covers all manufacturer defects by repair or replacement determined by kano. does not cover accidental damage. it starts on the date of purchase until one year after the date of purchase. kano extended warranty covers everything that the one year warranty does, but for an additional year. can only be purchased through kano.me and sarts at the end date of the included kano one year warranty. kano premium warranty covers everything from the kano extended warranty plus all accidental damage and daily usage damage. can only be purchased through kano.me and commences on the day of purchase and ends two years after the day of purchase. close anyone can make. kano is for all ages. our youngest maker has been 4. our oldest, over 80. if you can read, you can start. build with a book. learn code with simple steps. play alone, or together. close kano-icons-cross kano-icons-tick the item is in your cart. do you want to continue shopping, or view your cart? go to cart continue shopping