skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: home / broadband / shop xfinity internet plans near you shop xfinity internet plans near you by blake hughes on march 24, 2020 in broadband collect this idea gaudilab / shutterstock xfinity internet service xfinity is the tv and internet service arm of their parent company, comcast. they sell internet, television and cable and voice calling services and prefer to bundle all three. internet service goes up to 1,000 mbps and they offer more than 260 channels. they also provide mobile and home security services. xfinity from comcast serves customers in 39 states but has its most significant presence in california, florida and illinois. they’re the largest cable internet provider in the united states, serving over 111.7 million people. xfinity internet: what you need to know here is a quick rundown of xfinity internet offers. you can use it as a reference guide when shopping and comparing their products, speeds, price, and availability to other internet service providers. xfinity internet products xfinity’s products include high-speed internet, tv and streaming, mobile, home security and home phone. xfinity internet speeds internet speed plans include 15 mbps, 100 mbps, 200 mbps, 300 mbps, 600 mbps, 1,000 mbps and 2,000 mbps. xfinity internet prices xfinity pricing ranges from $39.99, $49.95, $59.99, $69.99, $79.99 to $299.95. availability xfinity is available in 39 states. contract they have off-contract and on-contract packages. xfinity availability xfinity’s intuitive website will read your location and offer you packages and deals that are available in your area. their network is built on cable internet, not fiber, which integrates with the existing cable television network. speeds go up to 1,000 mbps in all major metropolitan areas. xfinity is available in the following states: alabama, arizona, arkansas, california, colorado, connecticut, delaware, district of columbia, florida, georgia, idaho, illinois, indiana, kansas, kentucky, louisiana, maine, maryland, massachusetts, michigan, minnesota, mississippi, missouri, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, new york, north carolina, ohio, oregon, pennsylvania, south carolina, tennessee, texas, utah, vermont, virginia, washington, west virginia, wisconsin. xfinity internet plans xfinity offers multiple packages of internet, cable, and voice, designed to either appeal to households with avid gamers, those who like to stream a lot, or people who just want basic internet. package prices vary by where you live, so you’ll have to enter your city, state, or zip code to find out what you’d pay in your area. these are the basic packages that xfinity offers most customers, but they know that other internet users could have different needs. they have offerings if you want more devices to have access to the internet, up to 12 or unlimited, and higher-speed offers for online gamers. other packages combine internet service with premium cable such as hbo® and showtime®, or with premium cable and phone service. make sure to consider xfinity internet deals when deciding the best option for you. internet package internet speed package features starting price performance 60 mbps this xfinity plan is great for sharing photos, shopping online and watching videos. if you live in a home with three or less internet users, this is a good low-cost option. $39.99 per month performance pro 200 mbps this is great for sharing photos, shopping online, watching videos, downloading hd movies and home networking. it can support multiple users, is a great option for an average-sized household and is the best value. $49.99 per month blast! 300 mbps this package is great for sharing photos, watching videos, home networking, sharing large files, online shopping, gaming, streaming on multiple devices and downloading hd movies. it is high-powered and good for a household with five or more people. $59.99 per month xfinity features xfinity connect – download the free xfinity connect app to use the internet on-the-go. you can make wifi calls and text from your phone without using up your wireless allowance. you’ll also get seven email accounts with up to 10 gb in storage. high data allowance – xfinity plans come with a data cap of 1,000 gb per month, which is significantly higher than most internet providers. xfinity xfi – this feature allows you to manage your home wifi network from your laptop, phone, or tv. you’ll be able to see which devices are connected to your network, set usage limits, and set up your network without a technician. secure hotspots – xfinity offers nationwide hotspots so you can access the internet on-the-go. this can help you save on phone data each month. also read broadband best high-speed internet providers of 2020 broadband wow! internet plans popular stuff give your brick fireplace a facelift - reader story don't stockpile: what to buy for home quarantine during coronavirus bedroom windows buying guide heat pump troubleshooting and repair bedroom windows buying guide popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss