wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » opinion » shopify vs woocommerce – which is the better platform? (comparison) shopify vs woocommerce – which is the better platform? (comparison) last updated on february 14th, 2019 by editorial staff 1k shares share tweet share pin are you thinking of starting an online store? not sure whether you should use shopify or woocommerce? shopify and woocommerce are the two top ecommerce platforms in the world each with their own pros and cons. as a business owner, choosing the right ecommerce platform that fits your business needs is crucial for your success. in this guide, we will show you a detailed comparison of shopify vs woocommerce. the goal is to break down their advantages and disadvantages to help you choose the best option for your ecommerce store. since this is a detailed comparison of shopify vs woocommerce, here’s a quick table of content: overview: woocommerce vs shopify what to look for in your ecommerce platform? cost comparison ease of usse comparison payment methods add-ons comparison dropshipping comparison scalability comparison support options conclusion: woocommerce vs shopify – which is better? overview: shopify vs woocommerce before we start with our in-depth comparison of the two most popular ecommerce platforms on the web, it’s important that we cover the basics and highlight what makes these platform stand out. what is shopify? shopify is an all-in-one ecommerce platform that makes it easy for you to create an online store, accept payments, and manage your inventory all from a single platform without ever worrying about the technical aspects of managing a website such as web hosting, security, caching, etc. what is woocommerce? woocommerce is an open-source ecommerce plugin built for wordpress. it allows you to leverage the most powerful content management system (cms) and use it to run an online store. because of the open-source nature, you can customize every aspect of your store and easily build custom extensions. the decision to choose between the two platforms depend entirely on your needs and skill level. what to look for in your ecommerce platform? there are few things that you absolutely need to keep in mind when starting an online store. these key factors will help you decide which platform is better suited for your needs. budget – the initial cost of starting a fully functional ecommerce store. ease of use – it should be easy to use even for absolute beginners. payment methods – it should have support for multiple payment methods (e.g. paypal, stripe, other merchant processors). integrations – number of services and third party tools you can integrate to grow your business. scalability – the platform should be able to scale as your business grows. these are the very basic requirements that all online store owners must consider. however, depending on your needs, you may also want to look at other options like shipping, inventory management, invoicing, taxes, dropshipping, etc. our goal with this article is to take an in-depth look at how shopify and woocommerce stand on these basic requirements, and which one of them is best suited for your needs. cost: shopify vs woocommerce cost is often the most important consideration for ecommerce website owners. you need to evaluate the cost of getting started while also keeping in mind the variable costs for add-on services and software. the true cost of using shopify shopify makes it super easy to start your online store. their basic plan starts at $29 per month, and you can upgrade to the shopify plan for $79 or the advanced shopify plan for $299 per month. each of these plans includes domain name, ssl certificate, and web hosting. the basic plan comes with enough features to set up a new online store. you can add unlimited products, 2 user accounts, unlimited file storage, and more. however, this pricing doesn’t include third-party tools and add-ons that you will need to take your shopify store to the next level. as your business grows, these costs will start adding up, and you’ll soon be paying a lot more than the basic plan. payments are another factor that affects your costs. shopify offers their own shopify payments solution which costs 2.9% + 30 cents per transaction. if you want to use third-party payment gateways or your own merchant account, then you will be charged a flat fee of 2.0% for all transactions. you can reduce this fee to 0.5% by using the shopify advanced plan which costs $299 per month. these payment processing fees are fairly steep when using external payment gateways. however, if you’re just starting out and want to use the shopify payment solution, then the fees are fairly comparable to popular platforms like stripe and braintree. the true cost of using woocommerce woocommerce is an ecommerce plugin for wordpress.org (also known as self-hosted wordpress). it is open source and freely available as a wordpress plugin. however, you’ll need a domain name, ssl certificate, and a wordpress hosting account to start a woocommerce store. typically, a domain name costs $14.99, ssl certificate costs $69.99, and web hosting around $7.99 / month. this is not cheap, particularly when you are just starting out. thankfully, there are several hosting companies who are now offering specialized woocommerce hosting plans which significantly reduces the cost. bluehost, an official wordpress and woocommerce recommended hosting provider, has agreed to offer our users a free domain name, free ssl certificate, and a discount on web hosting. this will help you start your online store for as low as $6.95 / month. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← as you can see, the cost of starting a basic woocommerce store is significantly lower than shopify. woocommerce also doesn’t charge you a percentage fee of your transactions which is a very nice perk. but the woocommerce costs start adding up as you purchase paid extensions. your hosting costs will also increase as your online store grows. however, one clear advantage of using woocommerce is that you can often find free alternatives to the paid extensions. you can also keep your costs in control by only purchasing the tools and plugins as you need them. with the number of free themes and free add-ons available for woocommerce, it’s definitely the winner when it comes to cost. winner: woocommerce ease of use: shopify vs woocommerce most users starting an online store are not web designers or developers. even users who are familiar with basic concepts need a platform that is easy to use and gets out of their way. let’s see how shopify and woocommerce stack up in terms of user-friendliness. shopify – ease of use shopify is a fully hosted platform which means you don’t need to install, manage, or update any software. you also don’t need to worry about security, performance, backups, and compatibility issues. as soon as you sign up, it helps you pick a design for your website. after that, they walk you through customization and then help you add products. shopify comes with an intuitive drag and drop interface. managing your products, sales, and inventory inside shopify is a breeze. one downside of this guided, polished, and highly optimized user experience is that it limits your control. you can only use the design and development tools provided by shopify or add-ons available in their marketplace. however, this is not as bad as it sounds. for most users, the large selection of extensions and themes available in shopify, is more than enough to get started and grow your online store. woocommerce – ease of use woocommerce is not a hosted platform like shopify. this means you will need to install woocommerce, manage updates, keep backups, and make sure that your website is secure. there are plenty of free and paid plugins that can automate most of these tasks for you. woocommerce is super flexible when it comes to customizations. you have full control of the whole platform. you can add any functionality imaginable to your website with the help of more than 55,000+ wordpress plugins. however, there is no built-in drag & drop design builder. you can use one of the wordpress page builders like beaver builder, but it adds to your cost. the biggest downside of the flexibility is that it comes with a learning curve and requires a more hands-on management of your website. you also have to signup for a merchant account or similar service like stripe / paypal. while the woocommerce guided setup wizard is helpful, it does not come close to the onboarding and ease of use of shopify. winner: shopify payment methods: shopify vs woocommerce there are many payment gateways that you can use to accept payments online. some payment methods may not be suitable for you, and others may not be available to your customers. this is why it’s important that the platform you choose offers multiple payment options. let’s take a look at how shopify and woocommerce compare when it comes to payment integrations. payment options in shopify shopify offers plenty of payment options that you can use to receive payments from customers. it has its own payments solution called shopify payments (powered by stripe) as well as all popular third-party payment gateways. the problem is that shopify charges an extra 2% fees on each transaction made through third party payment gateways. this is on top of the transaction fees charged by the payment gateway. you can reduce the fee to 0.5% by paying $299 per month for advanced shopify plan. shopify payments has flat credit card fees, but no other transaction fees. credit card rates start from 2.9% + 30¢ for the basic plan and get lower for other plans. payment options in woocommerce woocommerce offers paypal and stripe payments by default. it also supports all other popular payment service providers through add-ons. for payment gateways, woocommerce even has support for many regional and less popular payment services. since there is no barrier to entry, any payments company can create add-ons for woocommerce and provide support for it. as a self-hosted platform, you are only charged transaction fees by your payment gateway or your bank. woocommerce never charges you a % fee on your store transactions which is a major plus. if choosing your own merchant account and using a third-party gateway is important for you, then you will save a lot of money by using woocommerce. but if you’re a small store and willing to use shopify payments which has the same credit card rates as stripe / paypal, then it makes no difference. winner: tie integrations and add-ons: shopify vs woocommerce no matter how robust an e-commerce platform is, you’ll always need third-party tools and services to grow your store. for example, an email marketing software, lead generation tool, analytics tools, outreach services, etc. both shopify and woocommerce have a massive extensions directory, and they integrate with many third-party services. shopify add-ons and integrations shopify comes with a powerful api and an app store where you can buy third-party add-ons for your shopify store. they have hundreds of apps in the store covering every feature you’ll want to add to your store. for lead generation, they have integrations with software like optinmonster which helps you grow your email list and reduce cart abandonment. they have apps for seo, product reviews, discounts, countdowns, and more. shopify’s app store contains both free and paid apps. free apps are usually created by third-party services that have their own pricing, and the app only integrates your store to their apis. pricing for paid add-ons varies and most apps offer monthly subscriptions. woocommerce add-ons and integrations woocommerce is open source and built on top of wordpress. this gives you access to more than 55,000 free wordpress plugins and many more paid plugins. you can use these add-ons to add payment gateways, lead generation, seo, performance optimization, and almost any feature you can think of. due to the low barrier of entry, there are a lot more integrations and add-ons available for woocommerce than shopify. almost all third-party tools and service providers have their own plugins to seamlessly integrate with your woocommerce store. you can also hire a developer to create an integration or plugin just for your own website. however it’s important to keep in mind that woocommerce is a lot easier to customize. having personally gone through the process of submitting a plugin for wordpress and submitting an app to the shopify store, we can say that the process is extremely harder on shopify vs woocommerce. winner: woocommerce shopify vs woocommerce dropshipping dropshipping is an online business where an ecommerce store doesn’t keep the products in stock. instead, it fullfills order by purchasing products from vendors and then shipping them directly to the customers. due to its low overhead, dropshipping has become popular around the world. many of our users asked us to compare woocommerce vs shopify for dropshipping and which one of them is better for a dropshipping business. dropshipping with shopify when building a dropshipping business, the front-end of your website will look just like any online store. your users will be able to browse the products, add them to cart, and make payment, just like they would do on any other ecommerce store. depending on the vendors you choose, you will then have to place user’s order for shipping. shopify also has integration apps for several popular dropshipping marketplaces like aliexpress, oberlo, printify, and more. however, each of these product marketplaces has their own membership fees, shipping, and other charges that you need to keep in mind when building your dropshipping website with shopify. dropshipping with woocommerce woocommerce is a popular choice among dropshipping businesses. mainly because woocommerce allows you to install extensions that make order fulfillment a breeze. you can easily find extensions that allow you to instantly import products, fulfill orders from your website, and more. you can even create your own ecommerce marketplace allowing other vendors to sell on your website. keep in mind, that your supplier and vendor may have minimum order requirements, membership fees, and other charges. you need to keep those in mind when adding products to your woocommerce dropshipping store. winner: woocommerce scalability and growth: shopify vs woocommerce you have probably heard the term “growth-pains” from various ceos. as your business grows, you will need more resources to handle new challenges and goals. shopify and woocommerce can both be scaled to handle large amount of traffic and orders, but they’re not created equal. let’s take a look at how these two ecommerce platform compare when it comes to scalability. scalability on shopify shopify handles the technical parts of your store which means you don’t ever have to worry about performance, security, and scalability. once your business starts growing, you can simply upgrade your shopify plans. their infrastructure can easily handle your growing business without you having to worry about downtimes, backups, updates, or security. they also offer enterprise services as part of the shopify plus plan. this takes out the painful part of the growth, but it also adds to your cost of business. your expenses will grow, and you’ll have to plan accordingly. the good part is that your costs will be offset by you not having to hire / manage a technical team in-house. scalability on woocommerce woocommerce is a self-hosted platform which makes you responsible for maintaining updates, backups, and security of your website. your starter woocommerce hosting plan would run out of resources as your store starts getting more traffic. the good part is that you have plenty of options to manage growth as you are in full control of your website. starting with better management of resources with caching to upgrading your hosting plan to more powerful servers. your woocommerce hosting costs will increase, but you will have better control on resources, and you can make sure that you are not paying for resources that you don’t need. you can use a managed wordpress hosting provider like wp engine or liquidweb to help scale your woocommerce store. despite the control that woocommerce offers, some business owners simply prefer a hassle-free solution. winner: shopify support options for woocommerce vs shopify both woocommerce and shopify are quite easy to use. however, sometimes you may need help to learn how to do something new on your store. let’s see how woocommerce and shopify handle support and what are your options to get help when needed. support options on shopify shopify is a fully hosted platform, which means they control the software and they are the ones who know their platform the best. shopify provides 24/7 support via live chat, phone, email, and twitter. for users who want to fix things on their own, shopify offers extensive documentation, how-to guides, knowledge base, video tutorials, and forums. it also maintains a directory of shopify experts that you can hire if you need extra help or if you want to integrate a third-party solution. shopify doesn’t provide support for any third-party apps or themes that you are using. support options for woocommerce woocommerce is the world’s most popular ecommerce platform, which means there are tons of support options that you can utilize when needed. the official website has extensive documentation, tutorials, and guides that allow you to help yourself. they also have support forums where you can get help from other woocommerce users and experts. woocommerce is a self-hosted platform, which means your hosting provider is responsible for providing support for issues with your server. for your woocommerce theme and extensions, those developers are responsible for answering support questions regarding their products. due to its immense popularity, it is quite easier and often cheaper to find developers to help you fix issues with your woocommerce store. you can find developers on freelancing websites to fix woocommerce issues. winner: shopify woocommerce vs shopify: which is the best ecommerce platform? shopify and woocommerce are both powerful platforms to start your ecommerce store. it truly comes down to your personal skills and preferences. shopify is a lot easier to use. it doesn’t require you to install anything, and you can get started quickly. setting up payments is easier, and they have easy to understand pricing plans. the disadvantage of shopify is that you don’t have full control over everything. your costs can go high with transaction fees, add-ons, and integrations. your upgrade options are limited to select plans, and you cannot manage costs on a pay-as-you-grow basis. woocommerce is open source and gives you full control of your website. it costs a lot lower to start an online store with woocommerce specially with these woocommerce hosting companies. the disadvantage is that you’ll have to maintain the software. it comes with a bit of learning curve. however, millions of beginners are already using it, and they get over the learning phase quite quickly. if you are looking for a cost-effective solution, and you want to have full control of your online store, then woocommerce is the best platform for you. if you want something that’s completely hassle-free that has infinite scalability, then shopify is the better platform for you. we hope this article helped you compare pros and cons of shopify vs woocommerce. you may also want to see our guide on how to choose the best website builder. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 1k shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 32 commentsleave a reply lokesh indoura says: sep 12, 2019 at 10:54 am sir, – i am regular reader of wpbegginer. i want to ask that i have a wordpress blog. which is monetized by google adsesne. can i sell in this blog my own product such as book. if it can. please suggest me way. i will be grateful. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 13, 2019 at 9:14 am yes, you can use google adsense on an ecommerce site, for how to set up a store you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-start-an-online-store/ reply dori says: feb 13, 2019 at 5:18 pm i currently have a wordpress blog and a shopify basic website. being in washington state with a complicated sales tax schedule, one thing i really like is the fact that shopify correctly calculates our sales tax. no extra plugin needed. in a state requiring destination based sales tax collection, if you use woocommerce you would likely need to install a plugin like taxjar and pay $17/month. i am going to combine blog & webshop this year and will downgrade to shopify lite and paste code for my products into my blog. i’ll still be able to use shopify’s inventory tracking, shopping cart, and shipping calculators…for $9.00/mo. plus transaction fees. if you are a small business with a limited number of products, it’s worth taking a look at. : ) reply wpbeginner support says: feb 14, 2019 at 11:12 am thanks for your input, that is another factor that could be important for those comparing the two. reply chris says: feb 9, 2019 at 5:15 pm the biggest problem with shopify, besides the outrageous cost of apps, is their default shipping box. this has been a known issue for years and they won’t address it because they get fees from shipping apps. if you sale more than 1 item that uses different shipping boxes, too bad, you can only set up 1 size. if you sale something that goes into a regular envelope and set it as default, shipping is low, but if you also sale something that requires a box, the customer will pay shipping on the envelope (because it’s your default package) and you pay the extra shipping costs. there’s no way to set up shipping packages for categories or per item. you get 1 and that’s it, eat the shipping costs. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 11, 2019 at 2:59 pm thanks for sharing your experience and what to consider between these two reply thomas stromschlag says: jan 31, 2019 at 3:47 am thanks for this compare i just setup woocommerce, but its always good to know what else could be. and yes, in woo is not everything pink reply wpbeginner support says: jan 31, 2019 at 11:33 am glad we could help inform reply jorge says: dec 14, 2018 at 1:47 pm great comparison. thanks! do you know if you can have one or more email accounts when you host your store with shopify? reply sanjal says: nov 15, 2018 at 8:08 pm please mention that shopify takes some % from your orders as a transaction fee..which as a web developer is okay but as a business its a great loss. please mind that 2% is quite good amount which shopify takes… reply lawanda hodges says: nov 8, 2018 at 6:41 am thanks very much for this article. i woke up this morning thinking, “which platform will i use, shopify or woocommerce?” thankfully, your article was one of the first that popped up! saved me time! lol why did i find this article so helpful? organized and to the point. good day! reply dominik agejev says: jul 16, 2018 at 7:55 am what do you mean by “your hosting costs will also increase as your online store grows. “? can you elaborate? does this apply to shopify as well? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2018 at 11:02 am hi dominik, as more visitors visit your website, your website will need more computing resources. to get those resources you will need to upgrade your hosting plan which will increase your cost. shopify is a fully-hosted plan. however, your costs will increase with payments, transaction charges, and addons. reply manoj agarwal says: jul 13, 2018 at 7:57 am this is a great article. i use both wordpress and shopify a lot and have set up e-commerce on both my own site and a client’s site. i think in general, people have heard of shopify , you’re a web developer or wordpress user. i don’t pull in a lot of $$ on my site so shopify would be way too expensive. but if i had a lot of sales and didn’t have time to mess with wp, i would certainly try shopify. reply tikyda says: jun 21, 2018 at 4:08 pm thanks a lot for comparing these two platforms. reply suzie c says: jun 17, 2018 at 10:29 pm i was almost going to try to spend the time doing woocommerce and also figure out how to transfer my wordpress.com blog to wordpress.org in order to be able to do that. however, i see that shopify has a ‘shopify lite’ option for $9/month by selling thru fb/social media. i’m only going to be selling a few things, so i think that option will be best for me. good to hear that someone has a good experience with shopify. i just want something easy! reply inbar says: may 7, 2018 at 1:31 pm which platform is easier for the end user costumer? reply dominik agejev says: aug 1, 2018 at 2:23 pm shopify, but it’s more expensive for you. reply jason banks says: apr 10, 2018 at 12:18 pm i’ve personally been using shopify for almost 2 years now and i love it, but i’m a super small company. i pay $9.99 a month got access to their “buy button”. essentially you add your product and you have the option to create a block of automatically creates a block of code based on 3 layouts and you copy the code and paste it wherever you want! i think it’s pretty genius. i actually have a wordpress website, that i control the updates and everything to, but i’m using the shopify buy button on my custom wordpress theme. i’m currently having to really look into woocommerce for my day job. my boss wants to know what we should go with for our ecommerce platform and i just don’t want to say shopify simply because i use it for my personal ecommerce business. basically i’m having to do research with shopify between a few thousand dollars a year business and a multi-million dollar a year business. reply crystal e says: may 30, 2018 at 11:37 am that is so identical to my situation, it’s almost scary! did you ever find a solid solution to this? i would like to know any advice you have since i’m in the same boat. reply noah says: mar 28, 2018 at 12:11 pm thank you for your review, however, i would like to clarify the issue of backups on shopify. i have a store and can attest to the fact that there is no automatic backup by shopify. you need to buy a plug-in for automatic backups. also worth mentioning, is that shopify does not have a proper setup for running a bilingual site. yes, you can use the automatic translation plugins but they are absolutely horrid and buggy. and no plugin will help you translate the checkout portion of the site leading to abandoned carts. as a global ecommerce solution, it has a long way to go… reply marcelo says: mar 7, 2018 at 1:36 pm nice review. i am using woocommerce for my own online shop and my biggest problem is the loading time. can you suggest some workaround on that? thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 8, 2018 at 8:27 pm hi marcelo, please see our wordpress speed and performance guide for detailed instructions. reply anne says: feb 26, 2018 at 5:07 am so far so good, best review i have come across i am in a process of opening an online store and i am going nut deciding on the best option and this will help me make my decision today. thanks reply joseph maguire says: mar 15, 2018 at 9:20 am as i am researching this topic for a potential client i agree. i did the math though and i think you should add this to the article the expenses of managing a woo comm versus a shopify with gross sales. with shopify you will be paying each transaction and it will result in you spending as much as $2-3k in transaction costs for $100k gross sales over the course of a year if you choose their basic plan. if you go up to their $79/ month plan you will be paying $960 out of pocket and still paying a transaction cost at 1%. it’s not a huge deal for a small e-commerce website but as you scale up to a $100k+ it can definitely be costly. and lastly as i just reviewed a lot of sites a lot of larger wordpress sites eventually get redesigned using a custom javascript or framework build. how easy is it to do that from shopify versus wordpress. i think its very manageable with wordpress as you can easily export all of your products and inventory from woo comm and the same from your database from wordpress. but can shopify do the same or will they do the same? its a big question on how friendly it is as you scale up. but its so far down the road maybe many clients don’t want to think about that day that they have to build a custom build framework which is a $50-200k investment. reply jeff hughart says: feb 17, 2018 at 11:38 pm this is a great article. i use wp a lot and have set up woocommerce on both my own site and a client’s site. i think in general, people have heard of shopify more than wc unless you’re a web developer or wp user. i don’t pull in a lot of $$ on my site so shopify would be way too expensive. but if i had a lot of sales and didn’t have time to mess with wp, i would certainly try shopify. reply eddie t says: feb 10, 2018 at 1:50 am great review. i think wordpress and woocommerce are great for geeks/tech savy individuals, since you not only run an online store but you end up learning to code for wordpress. honestly i would of never starting using wordpress if it was not for woocommerce. it’s a great self-teaching experience. nothing like running your own server as well for sure! p.s. it all goes great on a resume reply sam says: jan 17, 2018 at 9:15 am one of the better reviews out there, seems balanced. other reviewers did not mention how shopify apps can make your expenses skyrocket, besides still not giving you a proper ecommerce flexibility. reply ryan says: jan 17, 2018 at 3:24 am this is great. thanks for sharing. reply jon edney says: jan 16, 2018 at 5:04 pm fantastic article. personally, if i can’t maintain the installation itself, i feel like i’m cheating myself out of flexibility and control. but, when you are wanting to not have the worry about maintaining software, shopify is great. reply haseeb says: jan 16, 2018 at 1:50 pm never used shopify. reply sunday says: jan 16, 2018 at 7:55 am the best review i’ve ever stumbled on. quite informative. thanks reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) helpie wp coupon get 20% off on helpie wp premium wordpress knowledgebase wiki plugin. pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.