empowering, inspiring, award-winning & my grandma says you’ll love it…. signup! close home ec services ask the green mama ratings/reviews press contributing authors affiliates be local. shop local. live local events green mama products tags about blog the books green mama green mama-to-be shop explore join the tribe >> you are here: the green mama > shop local shop local charleston, south carolina this page is dedicated to being a green mama in the charleston, south carolina area. being a green mama can really be exemplified by supporting local business owners. when you spend your green dollars in your community, your money stays in your community. taxes go down and local business owners (your neighbors) prosper. often, the… read more vancouver, british columbia (canada) a list of great resources, shops, services, businesses, communities, and other things that can help make living green a little easier and more fun for families living in and around vancouver, b.c. often, the services or small business ship, so if you see something you really love ask. and, as always, send us your suggestions…. read more chicago, illinois a list of great resources, shops, services, businesses, communities, and other things that can help make living green a little easier and more fun for families living in and around chicago, il. often, the services or small business ship, so if you see something you really love ask. and, as always, send us your suggestions…. read more featured content from around the site... ask the green mama your green questions answered real vs plastic christmas tree? do i lie about santa claus and what about the other holiday myths? how do i find a nontoxic baby crib that doesn’t cost a fortune? my child has cavities, why and now what? how do i live with lead paint & a young child? ratings & reviews the best green product ratings/reviews in the marketplace babo botanicals hydrating lip luminizer is a truly pretty, green, and healthy lip-gloss carbon sync: the greener christmas tree best board games for families inbed organics: a truly natural, organic mattress the green mama car review of the mitsubishi ev recipes & life hacks your homesteading tool box: recipes, crafts, diy, and more how to celebrate advent candles: the toxic truth, safer option, beeswax candle diy how to detoxify your personal lubricant, find healthier options, and make your own organic lube diy deodorants: safer, healthier, nontoxic alternatives how to safely clean an oven ⇡ © the green mama 2006-2020 privacy policy terms & conditions the review process contributor login the green mama participates in affiliate programs, e.g. amazon services llc associates, designed to provide a means to earn $ by advertising/linking to sites such as amazon.com, without costing the buyer. i only link to products that meet green & ethical guidelines. learn more. join the tribe >>