/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss david pescovitz / 10:21 am fri watch johnny carson joke about the toilet paper shortage no, that isn't a deepfake. in 1973, the stock market crashed and an arab oil embargo resulted in a gas crisis. with that as the context, a (false) rumor of a toilet paper shortage emerged and spread like wildfire via news outlets before it was further fueled by johnny carson (who later apologized). it's a fascinating story of shortage psychology and panic buying. from priceonomics: in november of 1973, several news agencies reported a tissue shortage in japan. initially, the release went unnoticed and nobody seemed to put much stock in it -- save for one harold v. froelich. froelich, a 41-year-old republican congressman, presided over a heavily-forested district in wisconsin and had recently been receiving complaints from constituents about a reduced stream of pulp paper. on november 16th, he released his own press statement -- “the government printing office is facing a serious shortage of paper” -- to little fanfare. however, a few weeks later, froelich uncovered a document that indicated the government’s national buying center had fallen far short of securing bids to provide toilet paper for its troops and bureaucrats. on december 11, he issued another, more serious press release: “the u.s. may face a serious shortage of toilet paper within a few months...we hope we don’t have to ration toilet tissue...a toilet paper shortage is no laughing matter. it is a problem that will potentially touch every american.” in the climate of shortages, oil scares, and economic duress, froelich’s claim was absorbed without an iota of doubt, and the media ran wild with it. read the rest share / tweet / 1 comments panic / psychology / shortages / television / toilet paper read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support