home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ be productive by ali luke editor’s note: whether you have kids or not, this article is worth reading. ali really has done it all – edited a-list blogs, written successful books for herself and well-known brands and created great courses for bloggers and writers. if you ever struggle to keep on writing, kids or not, read on… five and a half years ago, my writing career finally seemed on the verge of taking off. i’d just published my first novel, i’d finished writing publishing e-books for dummies, which was to be published by wiley, and i’d launched an online membership site for writers. then i got pregnant. this was, of course, a lovely and joyous occasion. it was also – as you might imagine – the start of my writing career grinding to a halt. a couple of years on, with a nearly two year old daughter and a newborn son, a great writing day involved 15 minutes of writing while their naps (briefly) overlapped. if you have young children, i’m sure you know what it’s like. kids take up a huge amount of your time and energy – not just with feeding, changing and playing, but also all the extra laundry and food prep. not to mention the broken nights. you might well wonder if you should just give up on writing all together, at least until they’re in school. some writers do: for them, it may well be the right choice. but the majority, i think, want to keep up at least a bit of writing. the hard truth about being a writer with children becoming a parent is probably the biggest change you’ll ever go through in your life. when my daughter was born, i had the vague idea in my head that (after a brief spell of maternity leave), life would just … carry on as normal. but of course, once you become a parent, you simply won’t be able to carry on writing at the same pace as before. a great deal of your formerly free time is taken up by caring for your child – and doing all the extra chores that children create. i’m someone who likes to move fast, and it’s been hard to realise that i simply can’t write and work in the same way as i could pre-kids. it’s also been tough to watch other writers, without kids, zoom on ahead of me in their careers. if you’re fairly new to parenthood, i’m sure you’ll have been through many of the same emotions. some well-meaning friends or family members may tell you to “enjoy every moment” of your kids being young, or that the most important thing is to just focus on your children right now. please don’t let that sort of advice become a massive guilt trip. don’t give in to writers’ guilt when i’ve surveyed the writers i know, or looked at the discussions cropping up in writing-related facebook groups and forums, there’s often a lot of guilt associated with writing. writers feel guilty for taking the time to write … and parent writers can be particularly prone to this. it may seem self-indulgent, even selfish, to take the time to write when you could be playing with your kids (or putting on the third load of laundry that day). on the other hand, many writers also feel guilty for not writing – even when things are really hectic. they feel that they should be writing a certain amount per day, or per week, and they berate themselves for not achieving that. today, let go of the guilt. you’re not just a parent – you’re a person in your own right, and there’s nothing at all wrong with taking some time for yourself to do something that you find fulfilling. at the same time … if you need a break from writing, don’t feel at all bad about taking one. there’s honestly no “rule” that says you should write every day, or write a certain amount each week. three crucial steps for keeping writing around small children if you do want to keep up at least some writing while your children are young, here are three crucial things to do: #1: negotiate with your partner unless your partner is also a writer, they won’t automatically know what you need. tell them! be explicit about what you want: “i’d like to spend two hours every saturday afternoon writing. could you take the kiddo out to the park?” (in return, of course, you might make sure that your partner gets a couple of hours every week to focus on something they really want to do.) if you’re parenting on your own – firstly, i salute you; i can’t imagine how hard it must be. can you rope in a friend or family member to help, even once a week, so you can get some time to write? #2: make the most of the writing time you do have i’m a bit embarrassed to admit it, but i’ve actually written more fiction since having kids than i did before! because i now have to schedule in my writing time, i find that i’m more likely to actually do it – before kids, it was easy to wait for “a free saturday” or “a whole afternoon” to write. when you sit down to write, write. you might want to switch off your internet connection and silence your phone. short writing sessions can actually be an advantage here: most of my fiction writing happens in 30 minute chunks, and it’s easy to tell myself i can focus for 30 minutes! #3: don’t be a perfectionist writers, i’ve noticed, can have a tendency towards perfectionism. while this can be helpful at times (like when editing), it can also be seriously detrimental. a couple of sayings that i find useful are, “good enough is good enough” and “finished is better than perfect.” this doesn’t just apply to writing. if you’re struggling to find enough time to write, maybe you need to lower your standards when it comes to chores – or your children. it won’t do any harm to use ready-made meals or to let them watch a bit of extra tv, if that means you can free up some more time to write. if you’re about to start a family, or if you have young children, you can absolutely keep writing. you may even find, like i did, that you’re more efficient now that you have less time available. if, however, you want to take a break from writing while your children are young – then do. it doesn’t have to be one-time decision, either: you might decide to have a year off, but if you change your mind, you can always pick up writing again. whatever you decide, remember that you are an important part of your family (just as much as your kids are) and you are absolutely entitled to arrange family life in a way that makes you happy too. tweet pin share related posts how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) by dave chesson how to stop procrastinating and keep writing by daniel brotzel useful time management hacks every writer should know by kristen ford about the author ali luke ali luke’s free mini-ebooks time to write and the two-year novel are for any writer who wants to fit in some extra writing (and enjoy it more)! you can download them here when you sign up to her weekly email newsletter – which includes writing tips, discounts, and more. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >