should healthcare practices utilize local seo? - smartsites think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 seo should healthcare practices utilize local seo? march 2, 2020february 24, 2020 chad faith content manager with the widespread use of the internet and smartphones, medical practices are relying on digital marketing nowadays to promote their services. as compared to more traditional forms of marketing, digital marketing is a cost-effective way to increase customer base. search engine optimization (seo) is an important component of digital marketing and should be used in the marketing of products. understanding what seo is many of us use search engines in finding out about products, services and businesses. seo is a marketing discipline that focuses on increasing the number of visitors to a website by improving a webpage’s ranking on search engines. it is essentially a series of rules for websites to improve their rankings on search engines. one of the most essential rules of seo is having a site that is easy to navigate and is optimized for mobile devices. it is good to take advantage of seo and apply them to your websites. there are two types of seo-related principles – local seo and organic seo. difference between local seo and organic seo organic seo is a marketing principle of optimizing your website to rank higher on search engine results and getting websites ranked for relevant keywords. local seo focuses more on building relevance of their webpages to specific locations. organic seo is heavily used in online services, whereas local seo is used by brick and mortar businesses. so, what is the difference between the two? organic seo works on improving its ranking on search results based on having excellent content, whereas local seo works on improving its ranking by having relevant and trusted location. importance of local seo the number of internet searches on health-related information continues to increase. according to a study by pew internet and american life project, 80% of american internet users have searched for a health-related topic online. the study seems to suggest as well that medical practices can gain more customers by using the internet to market their services. local seo can help introduce more patients to your services by increasing the rank of your website on search engines. increased traffic to your website can help to boost your customer base and thus, this increases profits. according to google, 46% of all google search results are determined by the geographical location of the user, which is huge! many people are searching for local businesses online, apply seo to increase website traffic today. attract new patients by using seo today all medical practices want to have a strong customer base and have a stream of patients. employ seo strategies, both local and organic seo, to boost your website’s overall traffic. however, since medical practices are mostly brick and mortar establishments, it is essential that your website shows up on search engine results of people who live in the vicinity. according to a study by google, local searches result in more purchases than non-local ones. simple healthcare seo tips here are some simple tips you could use to ensure that your website can be found by local patients. include your city’s name and relevant keywords in your content every page of your website should contain the full address of your practice you could place your google maps listing on your website use local keywords in your headings, titles and content give us a call at 201-448-9010 to speak to one of smartsites’ digital marketing experts to find out how we could help you get the most out of local seo. learn more about smartsites by visiting our website here. related posts writing engaging content for pet sitting websites nj seo services: looking beyond the price tag post optimization: seo for the modern marketer don’t miss your seo health checkup appointment! get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha comments this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: blog seo should healthcare practices utilize local seo? recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect