skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us should i start a blog? 10 reasons we wish we had started sooner alex nerney updated: 12/13/19 home » create and go blog » blogging basics » should i start a blog? 10 reasons we wish we had started sooner disclosure: this page contains affiliate links, meaning we receive a commission if you decide to make a purchase through our links, but this is at no additional cost to you. please read our disclosure for more info. facebook0 tweet0 pin257 shares257 if you’re asking should i start a blog, chances are that are you already have some inkling of the financial freedom and time freedom that come from blogging, but it’s so much more than that. lauren and i started out no differently than probably most of you before we got into blogging. lauren was an overworked cpa at a mid-sized accounting firm in dallas, texas and i was a full-time personal trainer busting my butt for an hourly wage. i think the most important thing you can understand about our story is that there is nothing inherently special about our backgrounds. other than being pretty motivated and hard-working, we’re average joes. there is nothing that we have that you don’t that can attribute to our blogging success. and now we are millionaire bloggers help all kinds of people start and find success in blogging. anyone can succeed in blogging as long as they are committed to their goals, want it badly enough, and put in the work to get there. for all of you preferred video learners out there, here is a quick video on this topic from our youtube channel below. here is an overview of what we’re going to cover. table of contents close open 1. you can control your income 2. you can travel while working on your blog 3. you can completely design your days 4. blogging will challenge you (in a good way) 5. you will learn new, transferrable skills 6. it will give you confidence and help you make better decisions 7. you can make a difference in the lives of others 8. blogging creates opportunities for other businesses and projects 9. you can be your own boss 10. it costs less than a typical startup let’s get to it! here are the 10 reasons you should get started! 1. you can control your income here’s a cool little story for you… lauren was a certified public accountant before she became a blogger. she was doing pretty well for herself, but she was climbing the corporate ladder just like everyone else. translation: slow growth. in just two years of blogging, she was able to more than quadruple her annual salary as an accountant and she now makes close to 7x her annual salary! that’s pretty incredible, right? it’s all because she is now in direct control of her income! as a blogger, you decide when you want to work and how much you want to work. at some point, the more you work, the more money you can make. it does take work to set up, but now that we have created the ebooks and courses that we sell, written the emails that help sell them, designed the sales pages, etc., most of the work is done. all we have to do is write a couple of new articles, send a few emails, and do some customer service support to maintain most of our income from our two blogs. now, we choose to work a lot more than that because we love the work and are still trying to actively grow our blogs, but it can generally be as passive as you want it to be! if you really hustle your butt off, the sky is the limit as far as income is concerned. 2. you can travel while working on your blog you know what sucks? working your life away for two weeks of vacation a year. you have friends, family, unexplored countries… how can you possibly see it all while you’re still young? no one wants to wait until retirement to see the world. lauren and i have traveled to 6 different countries in the last two and a half years of blogging: peru, costa rica, mexico, portugal, nicaragua, and bali this is us traveling in the deserts of peru with our friends in the wifi tribe. during this time, we were still working and making money with our blog. but we were able to while while we traveled and take time off for fun activities whenever we wanted to. but here’s the really crazy part… we wouldn’t have been able to afford to travel internationally on the salaries we were making at our previous jobs. blogging freed up our time and paid for our travels. 3. you can completely design your days one of my biggest complaints while working as a personal trainer was deciding between sleep and having a social life. clients often want to train at the butt crack of dawn (think 5 am or worse), and it was really hard to justify spending time with friends when you feel like you have to go to bed at 9 pm every night to get adequate sleep. lauren had to completely give up weekends for months in tax season. we know those feels of early morning wake-up calls to commute to work. this doesn’t exist in the blogging world. now, we wake up whenever our bodies feel good and ready to. and for those of you who are moms or have other early morning obligations, having a blog will allow you some time to nap too! this is just a little taste of what it means to be able to “design your days:” wake up when you want to go to bed when you want to grocery shop when the aisles are empty workout when the gym is empty shop when the stores are empty drive without traffic buy the cheapest flights available during the middle of the week etc. you get the idea! it’s something that very few people in this world get to do and it makes all of the long, lonely hours that we put into our blog worth it. 4. blogging will challenge you (in a good way) looking back on our time blogging thus far, there were good times and bad times. it wasn’t all sunshine, roses, and pretty photos, and i hope that isn’t the message i have conveyed thus far. there have been some serious highs and some serious lows and a lot of blogging mistakes along the way. blogging will help you overcome fears and continually challenge you to be a better person. both lauren and i have grown a tremendous amount – both personally and professionally. there is no growth in the easy-going. true growth comes from facing challenges and learning how to overcome those challenges. some of the challenges that we faced along our blogging journey… our first blog failed. we created products that no one wanted. spent thousands of dollars on things that didn’t work spent a couple thousand more on copywriters that didn’t improve our sales page conversions. we quit our soul-sucking jobs before we were making a dime. we gave up our social lives and told friends and family “no” for many months while we were trying to get our new blog business off the ground. and so many more… we are still challenged all the time, and that is part of the reason why we love what we do! the thrill of the challenge is trying to make all of the pieces of the puzzle work together, and it is actually quite a rush when it does! 5. you will learn new, transferrable skills lauren and i have both noticed an improvement in the clarity of thoughts and conversations from blogging. it has helped us become better thinkers and writers. condensing thoughts and ideas down into actionable information others can use will sharpen your mind. if that wasn’t enough, writing is a great way to clear your head. when feeling stressed, it allows for a mental release from other activities. now, it wasn’t like from day one. writing didn’t always come that easily to us. there were days of staring at the wall, wondering what to write about and how to say it. but the amazing thing is that the more confident you become in your content over time, the easier it does come to let the words flow right out of you! 6. it will give you confidence and help you make better decisions expanding upon the previous point… publishing your thoughts and feelings about something to the world is a little scary the first time you do it. at least it was for us, and you will have nay-sayers trying to bring you down along the way. there will be ignorant people calling you names and nasty things because it’s the internet. but you ignore them because 99% of people will thank you for what you do and how much you changed their lives. this is definitely one of the cooler “bonus benefits” of blogging that we noticed over the last couple of years. both the positive and the negative feedback that you receive as a blogger will help boost your confidence and self-esteem over time. you begin to adjust to the feeling and have more confidence in your decisions because of it. this will have both an impact on how you write but also in your day to day life as well! the feedback brings us to our next point… 7. you can make a difference in the lives of others the weight loss program that we sold on our health and wellness blog impacted the lives of thousands of women. we helped women around the world lose an incredible amount of weight and learn how to live happier and healthier lives. some of the women in our community group for our program have lost over 100 pounds with our program!!! one hundred pounds!!! we got new testimonials about our challenge daily and the impact it made on the lives of others. here is one of our favorites: when we started, we had no idea what this health and wellness blog would and that it would end up having such an incredible impact on us. on this blog, we have now helped people quit their jobs, begin blogging, start earning money and even helped some bloggers double and triple their income. this is the kind of positive feedback were talking about in the point above! while you may blog to make an income or for any of the reasons that we outline in this post, the purpose of your blog should be to serve others. this is how you find true success as a blogger. 8. blogging creates opportunities for other businesses and projects since we started our first health and wellness blog, we have also started these other side projects and businesses: the health nerd (a youtube channel about health and fitness) create and go (this blog about making money blogging) wandr (a new business relating to travel with lauren’s brother) we used our health and wellness blog’s traffic and email list to cross-promote the health nerd and its success to give credibility to create and go. we then used create and go’s traffic to help the growth of wandr. once you find success in one area, you can use that success to leverage the growth of new projects or businesses that come across your path. it has allowed us the experiences to be able to teach others how to achieve what we have achieved and opened doors for us that we had never dreamed of. 9. you can be your own boss need i say more? i mean, it’s not without its downsides. you are responsible for generating your own paycheck and there are risks involved. many bloggers never make it out of “hobby blogger” stage and actually make real money. you are responsible for putting in the work and making it happen. but when it does happen… well, we don’t need to repeat the other points in this post. just remember: financial freedom time freedom the ability to design your days i think that covers the major benefits of being your own boss! 10. it costs less than a typical startup forget investing your life savings in a new business. the cost to start a blog is much lower than most other traditional start-ups. there are free blogging platforms out there, but most people need to start with a paid version if they want to get paid! free blogs in a nutshell: you have no control over the content, it looks super unprofessional, and you are limited in how you can monetize them. how can i get started? if you already know what you want to blog about, this is our step-by-step process of how to get started: → how to start a blog (step-by-step beginners guide) create something awesome today! if you enjoyed this article or have any questions for us, please leave them in the comment section below! get the free 5-day blogging bootcamp for beginners access to the free course will be sent right to your email! start my free course! we respect your privacy. you can unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. facebook0 tweet0 pin257 shares257 about alex nerney about alex nerney alex has been a professional blogger since 2016. with a business degree and the expertise he has attained over time, he has grown two blogs to 6 and 7 figures, avocadu and create and go. he’s an entrepreneurial adventure junkie who loves to teach bloggers how to achieve success. read his inspiring story on how he went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. read this next how to start a blog in 2020 – best guide for beginners (7 easy steps) open this window to get started with bluehost now.start with bluehost nowstart now are you looking for a simple, step-by-step guide to how to start a blog and actually make money from it!? our free guide on this page will show you how to create a blog that is beautiful and functional, all in an easy step-by-step […] keep reading > similar articles blogging basics how much does it really cost to start a blog? (2020 update) 10 popular and profitable blog niches that still work in 2020 how much do bloggers make? like, really? [2020 edition] what is a blog? blogging & how it works (simple guide) see all blog posts leave a reply subscribe notify of new follow-up comments new replies to my comments primary sidebar hey, yall! we’re alex and lauren! about alex & lauren alex and lauren are the co-founders of two six-figure blogs and have been featured on forbes, yahoo! finance, and others. last year, more than 5 million people read their blogs. read their inspiring story on how they went from broke and frustrated to $100k/month blogging in 3 years. table of contents 1. you can control your income 2. you can travel while working on your blog 3. you can completely design your days 4. blogging will challenge you (in a good way) 5. you will learn new, transferrable skills 6. it will give you confidence and help you make better decisions 7. you can make a difference in the lives of others 8. blogging creates opportunities for other businesses and projects 9. you can be your own boss 10. it costs less than a typical startup footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions wpdiscuz