skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: shows between two knees at the osf posted on jul 27, 2019 posted in: attractions, festivals, shows above photo: between two knees (2019): wotko long, rachel crowl, april ortiz, derek garza, shaun taylor-corbett. photo by jenny graham. minutes before the curtain rose on the night we saw between two knees, my husband rand received a text from our friend shaun, who is in the show. “sorry in advance,” shaun wrote,… keep reading osf opening weekend 2018: sense & sensibility, destiny of desire, and henry v posted on apr 6, 2018 posted in: attractions, shows a strange thing happens when you become a theater nerd of the highest order – you develop a relationship not just with the characters within a play, or even the play itself, but – if circumstances allow – with the theater company as a whole. every season takes on its own personality, and you find… keep reading osf 2016 season review: yeomen of the guard, twelfth night, great expectations, and the river bride posted on mar 23, 2016 posted in: attractions, shows let me begin with a disclaimer of sorts. for the last seven years on this blog, i have staunchly avoided accepting free trips, tickets, passes, gifts, upgrades, hotel stays, or products. last month, though, i caved. we were invited to opening weekend of the oregon shakespeare festival, and offered press tickets for the shows, which… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.