home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog shredded pork eggs benedict recipe – keto and gluten free september 16, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment if you’re looking for a new keto or gluten free recipe, you’ve gotta try this awesome shredded pork eggs benedict recipe. this recipe is so simple. you only need three ingredients and less than an hour from fridge to table! ingredients hormel pork tenderloin (18.4 oz) one half avocado one egg instructions using your instant pot, throw a hormel pork tenderloin that’s been seasoned with garlic salt, onion powder and pepper into the instapot. i’d suggest using the metal stand that you can put into the pot to keep it from sitting on the bottom completely. add 2 cups of water to the instant pot. set the instant pot manually to 30 minutes. when the timer is done, let the pressure auto release for about 5 more minutes. you can manually release the rest of the pressure at this point. take the tenderloin out of your instant pot and shred it. set aside cut up one half of an avocado and set aside. boil a pot of water with a tablespoon of vinegar in it. when the pot starts to boil, lower the heat until it’s simmering. gently add one egg into the water (it’s helpful to put into a small bowl first and slowly lower into the water). in about 3-4 minutes, your poached egg should be done. you can remove it with a serving spoon. on your serving plate, place your avocado at the bottom, shredded pork tenderloin in the middle and your poached egg on top. enjoy!!! to make this shredded pork eggs benedict recipe even better, the entire recipe above is only 2 net carbs! enjoy!!!! other posts that may interest you: my two week keto diet experiment (day 1) 50 funniest workout tanks you need what is a gluten free diet? filed under: keto diet, nutrition, recipes tagged with: nutrition you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in