skip to main content thanks for contacting us. we've received your submission. back to reading sections news metro page six sports business opinion entertainment fashion ny post shopping living media tech real estate video photos sub menu 1 covers columnists horoscopes sports odds email newsletters store home delivery sign in search type to search search tips sign up new york post new york post share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy news share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy shrimp vendor at wuhan market may be coronavirus ‘patient zero’ by amanda woods view author archive get author rss feed most popular today 1 woman gets coronavirus after bragging about not social distancing 2 cuomo wonders if coronavirus quarantine may have backfired in some cases 3 shrimp vendor at wuhan market may be coronavirus 'patient zero' 4 'perfectly healthy' dad of 6 dies after coronavirus diagnosis: family 5 bull monty: nude woman straddles wall st. bull amid coronavirus lockdown name(required) email(required) comment(required) submit march 27, 2020 | 9:15am | updated march 27, 2020 | 4:43pm share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic. share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy more on: coronavirus espn analyst fears coronavirus doomsday scenario for football workers laid off due to coronavirus can't get through to unemployment office four die aboard coronavirus-stricken cruise ship off panama tone-deaf nyu dean sends video of herself dancing to students seeking tuition refunds a shrimp peddler at the chinese market where the coronavirus pandemic likely began has been identified as one of the first victims of the disease — and possibly “patient zero.” the 57-year-old woman, identified by the wall street journal as wei guixian, was the first person from the now-notorious huanan market in wuhan to test positive for the deadly bug. she was at work dec. 10 when she developed what she thought were cold symptoms, chinese outlet the paper reported. so she walked to a small local clinic for treatment and then went back to work — likely spreading the contagion. “i felt a bit tired, but not as tired as previous years,” she told the paper, according to a translation by news.com.au. “every winter, i always suffer from the flu. so i thought it was the flu.” she visited a local clinic on dec. 11 and received an injection, but didn’t feel any better, so she went to the eleventh hospital in wuhan. “the doctor at the eleventh hospital could not figure out what was wrong with me and gave me pills,” wei told the chinese outlet — but those didn’t work either. “by then i felt a lot worse and very uncomfortable,” wei said. “i did not have the strength or energy.” on dec. 16, wei went to wuhan union hospital — one of the city’s biggest — to get checked out. a doctor there described her illness as “ruthless” and told her several other people from the same market had already come in with similar symptoms. medical staff treat a covid-19 patient at a hospital in wuhan.afp via getty images by the end of the month, she was quarantined when doctors finally established the link between the emerging bug and the seafood market, the chinese outlet reported. a dec. 31 statement from the wuhan municipal health commission revealed that wei was among the first 27 patients to test positive for covid-19, and one of 24 cases with direct links to the seafood market. wei, who has since recovered and left the hospital in january, said she thinks she contracted the infection from a market toilet in the market she shared with meat sellers and others, according to the journal. the vendors who worked on either side of wei, along with one of her daughters, a niece and the niece’s husband, also caught the deadly bug, the paper reported. “a lot fewer people would have died” in the country if the government had acted sooner, wei told the journal in february. wei may have been “patient zero” at the market, but it’s still unclear if she was the first person to ever contract the novel coronavirus in the country. security guards patrol outside the huanan seafood wholesale market. afp via getty images medical staff treat a coronavirus patient at a hospital in wuhan. afp via getty images ad up next close french teen is youngest known to die from coronavirus in europe a 16-year-old french schoolgirl with no underlying health problems has... 2 view slideshow back continue share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy advertisement march 27, 2020 since the start of the outbreak, 81,897 covid-19 cases have been reported in china, johns hopkins university data shows. worldwide, more than half a million have been infected. the us is the new epicenter of the outbreak, with at least 85,996 cases. share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy filed under china , coronavirus , illnesses , medical care , vendors share this article: share this: facebook twitter flipboard whatsapp email copy read next french teen is youngest known to die from coronavirus in e... read next french teen is youngest known to die from coronavirus in e... share selection coronavirus stay informed with our coronavirus daily update newsletter. subscribe now read latest updates trending now this story has been shared 222,515 times. 222,515 woman gets coronavirus after bragging about not social distancing this story has been shared 177,454 times. 177,454 disturbing video shows the real coronavirus crisis in nyc hospital this story has been shared 110,039 times. 110,039 shrimp vendor at wuhan market may be coronavirus 'patient zero' this story has been shared 93,673 times. 93,673 cancer-stricken man kills self in hospital room after learning he had coronavirus video video length 58 seconds :58 london cheers on health care workers in touching tribute more stories page six kathy griffin hospitalized with possible coronavirus symptoms nypost woman gets coronavirus after bragging about not social distancing new york post facebook twitter instagram linkedin messenger email youtube email newsletters mobile apps contact us tips facebook twitter instagram linkedin messenger email youtube sections & features news tech metro real estate page six video sports photos business alexa opinion covers entertainment horoscopes fashion ny post shopping sports odds living classifieds media newsletters & more email newsletters rss feeds store post headliners home delivery subscribe manage subscription delivery help help/support customer service app faq & help contact us tips newsroom letters to the editor reprints careers apps iphone app ipad app android phone android tablet advertise media kit contact post digital network page six page six style decider © 2020 nyp holdings, inc. all rights reserved terms of use privacy notice your ad choices sitemap california privacy rights do not sell my personal information new york post would you like to receive desktop browser notifications about breaking news and other major stories? not now yes please send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. click to copy