see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login keep getting better with reports help scout’s reports will do all the heavy lifting for you from day one — no customization required. don’t sweat it! reports conversations email chat phone docs company happiness evaluate your team’s volume by channel, busiest hours, and trending topics among your customers. conversations report an overview of your team’s email productivity, with response, resolution, and handle time metrics. email report all of the key metrics related to chat, such as wait time, response time and duration. chat report a summary of phone calls created and who on your team is talking with customers the most. phone report understand the performance of your articles via beacon and docs sites, including answer rate and time saved. docs report everything a manager needs in one place. see any individual’s key performance metrics, like number of conversations per day. company report track customer satisfaction ratings to give your team high-fives and quickly turn customer frowns upside down. happiness report take your data with you export reporting data to csv/xls, use the api endpoints, or leverage fivetran to integrate with the business intelligence tool of your choice. save time and reps with views sort your data with advanced filters and save custom views for quick access later. get started with help scout try a customer service platform that outshines the others, and celebrate your wins every day. your team will discover new strength in minutes. get started see help scout in action. get a demo tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout