wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » wordpress hosting » siteground siteground reviews siteground is one of the most popular and highest rated hosting provider in the wordpress community. they provide unique in-house wordpress speed and security solutions to make your site as fast and secure as possible. they are known for the best 24/7 support in the industry which is why they’re an official ‘wordpress’ recommended hosting provider. this is also why we use siteground for hosting the wpbeginner website. siteground features include automatic upgrades, built-in wp caching, cdn, one-click staging and git version control. they are also one of the few companies offering location specific hosting with 3 data centers in usa, europe, and asia. on top of all this, they have а special 70% discount for wpbeginner readers. last seen 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: siteground review from our experts siteground is one of the most recommended wordpress hosting companies. they are known for their top notch customer support and fast reliable hosting plans. their wordpress optimized hosting includes everything you’ll need to create and grow a successful blog. read our complete siteground review to find out if siteground is the right host for you. in this detailed siteground review, we will put their promises to test. these are the areas we will look into: performance: speed is crucial for the success of your website. how fast will your website load with siteground? reliability: will your website be available 24/7/365 without facing any downtime? customer support: can you count on their customer support? features: do they offer all the features and tools you will need to build your website? pricing: how much it would cost you? are there any siteground deals that can save you money? bottom line: don’t want to read all the details? let us summarize it for you. we found siteground to be noticeably faster and extremely reliable. their hosting plans are flexible, and their customer support is one of the best in the industry. that’s why we’ve chosen to recommend siteground as one of the best wordpress hosting companies. now let’s dive into our detailed siteground review, so that you can see how we reached that conclusion and decide for yourself. about siteground siteground was founded in 2004, and since then it has grown into one of the most well known hosting companies. it is headquartered in sofia, bulgaria with offices in 6 locations and data centers in three continents. today, the company has more than 400 employees and hosts more than 500,000 domains. pros and cons of siteground each hosting company has its own pros and cons. some advantages can overshadow the disadvantages, but some cons can be a total deal breaker for your individual needs. before making a decision, you may want to review these siteground pros and cons. pros here are some of the advantages that make siteground one of the top rated hosting companies in the world. super fast servers: all siteground servers are highly optimized for speed. they are equipped with latest hardware like ssd drives and custom software to make sure that your site is super fast. top notch customer support their customer support is amazing to say the least. they offer 24/7 phone, live chat, and ticket based support. free cdn and ssl they offer instant setup of cloudflare’s free cdn and free ssl certificate from let’s encrypt. multiple server locations they have data centers in three continents. you can choose the location you prefer during signup. cons as we mentioned earlier, there are some downsides with every hosting company. these are some disadvantages of choosing siteground as your host. limited storage: their plans come with fixed storage. however, this storage is quite large, and if you are just starting out, then you will most likely never need extra storage. setup fee for monthly billing: there is a $14.95 setup fee if you choose monthly billing. but if you sign up for a longer billing period, then you’ll get bigger discount and no setup fee. they offer a 30 day money back guarantee anyway, so it’s a good idea to choose a longer billing period when you sign up. siteground performance while price often plays a significant role when choosing a web host, you cannot compromise on performance. this is why we decided to run our own tests to thoroughly review siteground’s performance. siteground speed test results speed is one of the most important performance metric that you should look for. a faster website offers good user experience and boosts your seo at the same time. in fact, a single second delay can cause 7% decrease in conversions, 11% fewer page views, and 16% decrease in customer satisfaction. we created a wordpress powered test site on siteground and filled it with dummy content for theme development with images. after that, we used pingdom’s website speed test tool to run our tests. these were the results we got: as you can see, our test site loaded in less than a second (649 ms to be precise) for a server in dallas, texas. that means our site is faster than 95% of tested sites. this is incredible, but this website had almost no traffic so the pingdom test alone is not sufficient. to test how siteground servers would respond to increased traffic, we used a tool called loadimpact. this tool gradually sends up to 100 users to see how the server would respond to increased traffic from multiple connections. you can see the results in the chart below: the blue line is the number of active virtual users on the site, and the green line is the server load time. siteground performed almost consistently except for a spike when there were 50 users on the site. it quickly recovered and page load time remained steadily low even with more users. this test shows that if you are looking for a really fast website, then siteground can be a perfect choice for you. typically, websites hosted on shared hosting account slow down a bit during top traffic hours. that’s because your site is sharing resources with other websites on that server. most shared hosting companies automatically kill server process if your site is taking too many resources. this causes downtime on your website. we tested our siteground site for the downtime and got 100% uptime result. siteground server response time your website’s content has a huge impact on page load time. for example, if you have high resolution images on a page, then it will significantly increase the overall page load time. this means that speed test results may not accurately reflect how fast your hosting server really is. instead of analyzing page load time alone, we decided to test the actual server response time as well. to do this we used a tool called bitcatcha. it ignores page content, and only tests response time of the server. bitcatcha also gives you average loading speed from different global locations. the speed for each location is measured three separate times, and then the results are averaged. take a look at the results in the screenshot below. as you can see, siteground is a great choice if your target audience is mostly located in the united states. the server responded in fraction of a second in the united states. it responded within less than a second for all locations, except japan. if your target audience is mostly located in japan, then you can ask siteground to move your site to their asia-pacific data center. siteground hosting plans and features siteground offers shared hosting, wordpress hosting, cloud hosting, and dedicated hosting plans. if you are just starting out, then their shared hosting plans would be a perfect fit for your needs. however, your site will eventually grow, and you want to make sure that they have other plans that you can upgrade to. let’s check out siteground’s hosting plans and their features. shared hosting: shared hosting is recommended for new websites and beginners. it is suitable for low traffic websites as you will be sharing resources with other websites hosted on the server. wordpress hosting: this plan is wordpress optimized version of their shared hosting plan. it comes with siteground’s in-house wordpress optimizations to improve performance of your website. cloud hosting: cloud hosting is a flexible upgrade to shared hosting. it allows you to use resources of multiple servers on a cloud architecture. it is suitable for growing websites, popular blogs, or businesses. dedicated servers: dedicated servers give you a complete server for your website. it is more expensive but gives you a lot more power. the downside is that you will have to manage the server yourself. enterprise hosting: this plan is for large businesses and high traffic sites with challenging server requirements. get in touch with siteground team and they will create a tailor-made plan to suit your needs. breakdown of siteground’s shared hosting plans siteground’s shared hosting is the best way to start a new website. their shared plans are available in three levels to match different budgets. startup: this plan is limited to hosting one website. it includes 10 gb disk space and is suitable for hosting a website having 10,000 monthly visitors. you’ll also get all essential features like 1-click wordpress install, free setup, website transfer, daily backups, and more. growbig: the growbig plan lets you host unlimited websites. it comes with 20 gb disk space and is suitable for hosting websites having 25,000 monthly visitors. you’ll get all the features of the startup plan, plus you’ll get premium features like super cacher, 1-year free wildcard ssl, and more. gogeek: gogeek plan is suiteable for small ecommerce websites. it can handle websites having 100,000 monthly visitors. in addition to all growbig’s features, you’ll get access to more advanced features like one-click git repo creation, wordpress and joomla staging, and more. siteground support and customer service you will see high praise for siteground’s customer support service everywhere. they are remarkably good at offering quick, helpful, and knowledgeable support to their customers. their customer support includes 24/7 phone, live chat, and ticket-based email support. their phone and live chat response times are almost instant. email’s get first response within less than 10 minutes. for users who prefer to fix things on their own, siteground offers a large collection of knowledge base articles with screenshots, videos, tutorials, and guides. conclusion: is siteground the right choice for you? after reading our detailed siteground review, you might be wondering if siteground is the right choice for your website? if you want fast and reliable web hosting service with great customer support, then siteground is perfect for you. they have hosting plans for every budget and each plan comes with great set of features. all their shared hosting plans include ssd storage, easy setup of let’s encrypt free ssl and cloudflare cdn service, 1-click wordpress installer, and free migration. if you are just starting a website for the first time, then you will certainly appreciate siteground’s customer support. ready to get started with siteground? click here to choose your hosting plan today. siteground coupon wpbeginner users get an exclusive 70% off discount and free ssl with our siteground coupon code. all you have to do is click on this link to purchase. the discount will be applied automatically. 3,926 siteground user reviews mohammad sami hashimi says: feb 27, 2020 at 1:06 pm thank you so much for helping, your are great in it reply lou silva says: feb 25, 2020 at 10:27 am aleksannder was professional and super helpful in my request. i have always been happy with siteground’s support. reply laura a graham says: feb 25, 2020 at 8:45 am great support from the siteground team upon my first contact and requesting my site migration! looks like i made the best choice by switching from bluehost! reply silke says: feb 25, 2020 at 1:05 am i moved all our / clients accounts over to siteground and couldn’t be happier. fantastic and fast support. i prefer to focus on the design part of my business and need a hosting provider i can rely on and who takes care of the nitty-gritty stuff. reply david ("doc") gordon says: feb 24, 2020 at 5:22 pm my rep was excellent: courteous, patient, knowledgable, and had the answers i heeded. much appreciated reply ray sholes says: feb 24, 2020 at 2:40 pm the level of knowledge and willingness to help even in a chat was undeniable. i cone from the service industry and when i say something is on point its sharper than a brand new japanese kitchen knife. this experience was exactly that. reply brian scott says: feb 23, 2020 at 4:51 pm kiril b. was a great help. he (unfortunately) had to deal with my inept ability to expedite the google search three separate times. very much appreciate his knowledge and guidance. reply jonathan rozek says: feb 23, 2020 at 4:49 pm i have found siteground support to be excellent. i’ve had a few questions and self-generated issues, and they’ve solved or answered all of them. thanks! reply kevin enos says: feb 22, 2020 at 2:04 pm this operator was great! did everything i needed and then some. very proactive individual. makes me want to tell everyone to go use siteground. thanks for having such a skilled and dedicated tech team. always a pleasure! reply sheilla kalijja says: feb 21, 2020 at 9:26 pm excellent customer service reply thiwanka nawalage says: feb 20, 2020 at 5:56 am great team. they have done perfectly what i have ask. thank you siteground teach team. you all are the best. reply david dwyer says: feb 19, 2020 at 11:54 pm excellent as always reply michael says: feb 19, 2020 at 4:29 am again the great support team from siteground made my day! reply philip powell says: feb 18, 2020 at 3:26 am quick and efficient work by support – thank you so much reply darnell says: feb 17, 2020 at 7:55 pm i will echo many of the reviews that have already been posted. the support is phenomenal and the support personnel are always very professional. they are leaps and bounds above the competition. i have not created a new site or done hosting with any other provider in the last two years and will likely move my older sites over to siteground this year. 5-stars all the way! reply abbas abdulmajeed says: feb 16, 2020 at 9:49 am requested website transfer from old server to other. transfer was done in less than one day and was absolutely functional without glitches. you also have the option to view your website in a local host setting and verify it. great work. reply valentin says: feb 16, 2020 at 7:14 am as always, quick and professional help. reply richard cabrera says: feb 15, 2020 at 3:11 pm philip helped me with the installation of wp and ssl. in less than 10 minutes i was ready. perfect service. simply the best. reply russ spencer says: feb 15, 2020 at 12:02 am as always, i have received the best help ever from your staff. they are fast, knowledgeable and great to work with. i recommend your service when i can. reply gurer guncan says: feb 13, 2020 at 3:52 am great assistance from simon, thank you very much reply jessica maree says: feb 12, 2020 at 6:13 pm im scared to spell pailvan name wrong out of respect because he is such a kind kind soul. he helped me so much as i have cancer and he understood and took his time with me. i explained my horror story with another large host company and i use to actually be a company of site ground but i use purchase a lot of domain names so it was easier xyz. last night i wanted to join so bad as i wanted out of my plan with my host asap and he made it happen despite odds and went step by step helping me submit my form. i hope i get him again. he was amazing to work with. a++++++++++++++++++++++++++ service. ahhh feels good to be home! reply erwin says: feb 12, 2020 at 3:41 am super fast, no hassle, competent and professional support. as always, i must add, and that’s what makes siteground so special. reply helder lana says: feb 11, 2020 at 11:03 pm amazing support! the best! 4ever reply paul aydelott says: feb 11, 2020 at 12:26 pm although i’ve had few issues requiring support from siteground, their chat support has always been superior, friendly, and fast. reply isidro says: feb 9, 2020 at 6:28 pm the cad support was the best i have expirence. reply ian m says: feb 9, 2020 at 12:55 pm dimitar saved my bacon. thank you for help me find the most esoteric plugin clash bug imaginable. reply mili bhatia says: feb 8, 2020 at 4:28 pm fantastic service and brilliant at helping you solve issue with your site x reply hauwa abdulkadir says: feb 7, 2020 at 9:21 pm ivaylo was very helpful, he picked everything up from where i stopped with zhorzh, he stayed from beginning to end of the hosting payment and site transfer process, he was very patient in answering all my questions (i thought he would get tired but he didn’t) , so helpful, knowledgeable i totally recommend him! thank you! reply cherry yarrow says: feb 6, 2020 at 4:08 pm stefan was a wonderful supporter, very patient and explained things well. am more than happy reply evans crystal says: feb 5, 2020 at 12:26 am very responsive and helpful. reply sian scoulding says: feb 4, 2020 at 8:29 am i can’t thank siteground enough, i am a learner and they guide me through all my worries that i feel like a master at the end of the chats! reply austin sinclair says: feb 3, 2020 at 2:01 pm ivan is the man. appreciate the help! give this man a raise $$$ reply lindyanne e says: feb 2, 2020 at 11:42 am thanks for a quick & efficient resolution to my problem. reply boe boe htoo says: feb 2, 2020 at 11:42 am with always great support from siteground, i would like anyone who is not having much knowledge with coding and having a website, you should consider siteground to be one of your hosting provider. they are great with support. reply peggy sands says: feb 1, 2020 at 2:55 am ivan was so helpful, i asked all my questions, he explained everything to my non geek braiin… truly appreciate this kind of help and support reply jim somchai says: jan 31, 2020 at 2:10 am great service for siteground.com. i had problems on site migration and their chat team helps me tremendously. thanks. reply charles cleivin says: jan 30, 2020 at 6:22 pm best support ever. reply aiesha dhas says: jan 30, 2020 at 12:45 pm once again, stellar exceptional customer support by siteground. never fails to amaze me with how speedy, kind, and knowledgeable the tech support staff is! bravo! reply dallas waldon says: jan 28, 2020 at 11:59 am kristian was fantastic! super patient and helped me learn the way. the help and support siteground provides is top notch and the reason i won’t go anywhere else. reply solange says: jan 28, 2020 at 4:31 am julian was great. siteground is really a place where to be. the team is great. thanks for your support reply codi says: jan 26, 2020 at 2:33 pm vasil found a really odd error and helped me fix it right away. awesome customer service as always from you guys, appreciate it a ton! reply michael davis says: jan 26, 2020 at 10:44 am the people are great. my only issue is that i didn’t get the info i needed sent to my email. instead, i received this review form. now i have to go start over again. thanks. reply thomas olesen says: jan 25, 2020 at 12:02 pm i could not have done the wordpress migration without aleksandar’s help. siteground is great because of the support that is provided. reply deepak e says: jan 25, 2020 at 2:07 am very very good support reply stephen walker says: jan 24, 2020 at 2:00 pm an almost immediate response to my first livechat question as potential customer. got me a very detailed answer meaning i will most definitely be a new customer any day now. reply tim says: jan 24, 2020 at 1:37 am blown away with the help i received! my rep picked up the pieces and completely resolved all my issues. reply alexandre gaudette says: jan 23, 2020 at 9:52 pm siteground was good but has year by year gotten worst. actually now i think it is one of the worst. can’t talk to the panel bad customer service and much much more i would clearly not go with this company reply siteground says: jan 27, 2020 at 10:27 am we are sorry that you have been disappointed with our support. i was able to locate your account and i took the time to review thoroughly all of your chat and ticket sessions. indeed, during your latest interaction with our support, we did not assist you in accordance with our company standards. i have forwarded the case to our customer care supervisors who would take the necessary corrective measures. regards, siteground reply harry kisamwa says: jan 23, 2020 at 10:25 am thank you for excellent service. quick and friendly help reply jolanda says: jan 21, 2020 at 12:42 pm very happy with the fast & quick support reply harrys says: jan 20, 2020 at 7:37 pm i needed to transfer a client’s site to a new wp installation. anastas, helped me just in a few minutes make the transfer without any delay and no action from my part. five stars support once again! harrys reply load more comments add your review cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin monsterinsights google analytics made easy for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) media temple coupon get 20% off on all media temple hosting plans. all in one seo pro coupon get 50% off all in one seo pack pro, the most popular wordpress seo plugin in the market. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.