wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » hosting » siteground coupon siteground coupon siteground is a highly specialized wordpress hosting provider. they allow you to pick servers from one of their 3 different data centers located across the world. all of their servers are optimized for wordpress speed and security. they also offer automatic wordpress core and plugin updates, staging area and git integration, special “supercacher” technology to speed up your site, and top-notch 24/7 support. they’re offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 70% discount on their startup plan. use our siteground coupon below to get 70% off their web hosting. coupon code clickhere (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use siteground coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive siteground coupon code helps you get 70% discount on their startup hosting plan. all you have to do is follow the instructions below to properly redeem the siteground coupon code, so you can get the maximum discount on siteground. to automatically apply our exclusive siteground discount, be sure to click the link from this page to open the siteground website. you’ll see a banner that says “special deal for wpbeginner users only!” you can click the “choose plan” button, or scroll down the page to select your hosting plan. you can get 70% off the startup plan with our exclusive deal. this plan is a good choice for beginners creating their first wordpress site. we recommend the growing big plan, since it includes advanced wordpress managed services such as automatic updates, premium support and wordpress supercacher, that are usually only found in much more expensive managed wordpress hosting offerings. with our siteground discount, you can get 45% off this plan. click the “get started” button on the hosting plan you’d like to purchase. on the next page, type in your desired domain name (such as www.yourblog.com), then click the “proceed” button. on the next page, you can enter your email address and set up a password for your new siteground account, and enter your contact information. then scroll down to enter your payment information. under “purchase information,” you can verify again that your siteground discount has been applied. that’s all. go ahead and click the “pay now” button at the bottom of the page to complete your purchase. we hope you found our siteground coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals here. other amazing deals pixelgrade coupon get 15% off on pixelgrade premium wordpress themes. view this deal » premiumcoding coupon get 40% off on premiumcoding's collection of beautiful wordpress themes. view this deal » pankogut coupon get 20% off on pankogut's premium wordpress themes collection. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.