skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about latest posts log in register search go site news news about this site and other pepys-related events. full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 i recently mentioned an interview with me about this site in the samuel pepys club newsletter. although the newsletter is only available to members the interviewer and club secretary, lucie skeaping, has kindly offered the full interview to read for anyone interested. download the pdf samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 there’s been a parody samuel pepys twitter account running for a while at @pepys_diaries. it’s a modern-day take on pepys, imagining him writing in the modern world. unfortunately one of the account’s recent tweets, drawing parallels between the plague and 2020’s coronavirus, has been quoted out of context and spread around as if it’s a real excerpt from the diary. the tweet: continue reading… interview in the samuel pepys club newsletter 7 march 2020 the samuel pepys club has a newsletter and the march 2020 issue contains an interview with me about this site, aimed at people who don’t know much about it. the interview is a little out of date — it’s from nearly two years ago — but, er, if you’re one of the club’s 140 members then you can read it. continue reading… email discussion group has moved 13 november 2019 it’s possible that many regular readers of this site aren’t aware that there’s a related email discussion group. it’s been running for some years on yahoo groups but isn’t very prominently advertised here, which i’ll try to fix. however, because yahoo is deleting all its groups’ archives the pepys’ diary group has now moved over to groups.io. continue reading… one of samuel's plates at the museum of london 9 october 2019 the museum of london recently acquired a very rare silver plate that once belonged to samuel pepys. from their website: continue reading… new free ebook of the diary 12 september 2019 standard ebooks is a volunteer-run project to create free ebooks with high standards of typography, formatting and accessibility, readable on a number of devices. they recently released an edition of the diary, by samuel pepys so if you have an ebook reader of some kind you might want to download it so you always have a copy with you. continue reading… new search page 25 june 2019 i’ve just changed this site’s search page to a new version that is hopefully more useful than the previous google-powered one. continue reading… recent pepys articles 2 june 2019 i’ve noticed a few articles about pepys appearing recently: continue reading… walking tour in london, 14th may 24 april 2019 if you’re in or near london you may be interested in a new pepys walking tour hosted by alice ford-smith, the walking librarian on twitter: continue reading… new samuel pepys £2 coin 14 april 2019 the royal mint, who often produce special coins for special occasions, have produced a £2 coin to honour samuel pepys, 350 years after his last diary entry: continue reading… ← 1 (current) 2 3 4 5 … 27 → latest site news posts events housekeeping new features pepys in the media press for this site site statistics latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site