features search designer pricing blog about us our team our customers help center getting started knowledge base integrations examples faq developer chat login free trial custom site search that packs a punch site search 360 is a complete, feature-packed, and easy to install search engine, perfect for any website. tailor the look, feel and functionality of your search bar, improve content visibility, and utilize powerful analytical tools to discover the intention behind every search. yeah! your free trial is ready. please tell us which email we should send the login credentials to. the site could not be found / indexed. there is already an account with the given e-mail address. did you want to log in? watch the video fast & formidablepowerful search at super speed with all the power of google’s site search – and far greater customizability – site search 360 offers all you need from a website search engine. smart semantic search instant results with autocompleted suggestions analytics to help you get more from your search flexible featurescomplete customization site search 360 looks great “straight out of the box” but can be customized to perfectly fit your website’s design and structure. help customers find what they need and highlight your key content with simple options to boost and order your search results. search designer clever content grouping for great ux support for 19 languages good to goeasy-peasy installation no coding experience is needed to set up site search 360, and you can be up and running in 5 minutes! simple integration of your choice: javascript code snippet, api or plugin cross domain search support works on any website, with any cms sign up for a free trial powerful search in motion take a 70 second peek into all that site search 360 can offer, and see for yourself how we make comprehensive search simple. why site search 360? site search 360 was created by the search experts behind semknox, which offers superlative semantic product search for online shops. based in dresden, germany, we have over ten years of experience in the search space. customers love how easy our custom search engine is to install and use, as well as the excellent support we offer. read more about us take their word for it our pricing’s no mystery with our simple, affordable pricing structure, site search 360 is the perfect choice for any website. free $0/month 150 pages indexed 1,000 queries a month monthly recrawl sitemap support community support full dictionary support complete result control site search 360 branding start your free trial no credit card required. columbo $9/month 1,500 pages indexed 5,000 queries a month weekly recrawls doc, ppt, xls indexing e-mail support less site search 360 branding all free plan features start your free trial no credit card required. holmesmost popular $39/month 3,000 pages indexed 10,000 queries a month weekly recrawls pdf image extraction doc, ppt, xls indexing e-mail support api access no site search 360 branding all free plan features start your free trial no credit card required. batmanflexible plan $99/month 15,000 30,000 50,000 100k 175k 250k 500k 1m 2m 5m pages indexed 25,000 50,000 100k 175k 250k 500k 1m 2m 5m queries a month up to daily recrawls pdf image extraction doc, ppt, xls indexing e-mail support api access no site search 360 branding all free plan features start your free trial no credit card required. compare all plans 10% annual discount available. looking for a better on-site search solution? for excellent, intuitive search, start your free trial now. yeah! your free trial is ready. please tell us which email we should send the login credentials to. the site could not be found / indexed. features search designer pricing about us knowledge base faq developer chat google alternative affiliate program terms of service privacy policy imprint system status wordpress plugin weebly plugin lightspeed plugin integromat integration cloudflare plugin login en de fr get in touch © 2020 semknox website by blend