skip directly to site content skip directly to page options skip directly to a-z link self-checker coronavirus self-checker × centers for disease control and prevention. cdc twenty four seven. saving lives, protecting people centers for disease control and prevention. cdc twenty four seven. saving lives, protecting people search search icon close icon × coronavirus coronavirus all cdc submit for a full list of topics: all a-z topics coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) section navigation cdc home facebook twitter linkedin email syndicate situation summary other languages español繁體中文tiếng việt한국어 minus related pages this is a rapidly evolving situation and cdc will provide updated information and guidance as it becomes available. updated march 26, 2020 cdc is responding to a pandemic of respiratory disease spreading from person-to-person caused by a novel (new) coronavirus. the disease has been named “coronavirus disease 2019” (abbreviated “covid-19”). this situation poses a serious public health risk. the federal government is working closely with state, local, tribal, and territorial partners, as well as public health partners, to respond to this situation. covid-19 can cause mild to severe illness; most severe illness occurs in older adults. situation in u.s. different parts of the country are seeing different levels of covid-19 activity. the united states nationally is in the acceleration phase of the pandemic. the duration and severity of each pandemic phase can vary depending on the characteristics of the virus and the public health response. cdc and state and local public health laboratories are testing for the virus that causes covid-19. view cdc’s public health laboratory testing map. all 50 states have reported cases of covid-19 to cdc. u.s. covid-19 cases include: imported cases in travelers cases among close contacts of a known case community-acquired cases where the source of the infection is unknown. most u.s. states are reporting some community spread of covid-19. view latest case counts, deaths, and a map of states with reported cases. on this page situation in u.s. cdc recommends covid-19 emergence severity covid-19 now a pandemic risk assessment what may happen cdc response highlights of cdc's response other available resources confirmed covid-19 cases global map view larger image and see a list of locations map icon covid-19 cases in the u.s. cdc recommends everyone can do their part to help us respond to this emerging public health threat: on march 16, the white house announced a program called “15 days to slow the spread,”pdf iconexternal icon which is a nationwide effort to slow the spread of covid-19 through the implementation of social distancing at all levels of society. older people and people with severe chronic conditions should take special precautions because they are at higher risk of developing serious covid-19 illness. if you are a healthcare provider, use your judgment to determine if a patient has signs and symptoms compatible with covid-19 and whether the patient should be tested. factors to consider in addition to clinical symptoms may include: does the patient have recent travel from an affected area? has the patient been in close contact with someone with covid-19 or with patients with pneumonia of unknown cause? does the patient reside in an area where there has been community spread of covid-19? if you are a healthcare provider or a public health responder caring for a covid-19 patient, please take care of yourself and follow recommended infection control procedures. people who get a fever or cough should consider whether they might have covid-19, depending on where they live, their travel history or other exposures. more than half of the u.s. is seeing some level of community spread of covid-19. testing for covid-19 may be accessed through medical providers or public health departments, but there is no treatment for this virus. most people have mild illness and are able to recover at home without medical care. for people who are ill with covid-19, but are not sick enough to be hospitalized, please follow cdc guidance on how to reduce the risk of spreading your illness to others. people who are mildly ill with covid-19 are able to isolate at home during their illness. if you have been in china or another affected area or have been exposed to someone sick with covid-19 in the last 14 days, you will face some limitations on your movement and activity. please follow instructions during this time. your cooperation is integral to the ongoing public health response to try to slow spread of this virus. covid-19 emergence covid-19 is caused by a coronavirus. coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are common in people and many different species of animals, including camels, cattle, cats, and bats. rarely, animal coronaviruses can infect people and then spread between people such as with mers-cov, sars-cov, and now with this new virus (named sars-cov-2). the sars-cov-2 virus is a betacoronavirus, like mers-cov and sars-cov. all three of these viruses have their origins in bats. the sequences from u.s. patients are similar to the one that china initially posted, suggesting a likely single, recent emergence of this virus from an animal reservoir. early on, many of the patients at the epicenter of the outbreak in wuhan, hubei province, china had some link to a large seafood and live animal market, suggesting animal-to-person spread. later, a growing number of patients reportedly did not have exposure to animal markets, indicating person-to-person spread. person-to-person spread was subsequently reported outside hubei and in countries outside china, including in the united states. some international destinations now have ongoing community spread with the virus that causes covid-19, as do some parts of the united states. community spread means some people have been infected and it is not known how or where they became exposed. learn more about the spread of this newly emerged coronavirus. severity the complete clinical picture with regard to covid-19 is not fully known. reported illnesses have ranged from very mild (including some with no reported symptoms) to severe, including illness resulting in death. while information so far suggests that most covid-19 illness is mild, a reportexternal icon out of china suggests serious illness occurs in 16% of cases. older people and people of all ages with severe chronic medical conditions — like heart disease, lung disease and diabetes, for example — seem to be at higher risk of developing serious covid-19 illness. a cdc morbidity & mortality weekly report that looked at severity of disease among covid-19 cases in the united states by age group found that 80% of deaths were among adults 65 years and older with the highest percentage of severe outcomes occurring in people 85 years and older. learn more about the symptoms associated with covid-19. covid-19 pandemic a pandemic is a global outbreak of disease. pandemics happen when a new virus emerges to infect people and can spread between people sustainably. because there is little to no pre-existing immunity against the new virus, it spreads worldwide. the virus that causes covid-19 is infecting people and spreading easily from person-to-person. on march 11, the covid-19 outbreak was characterized as a pandemic by the whoexternal icon. this is the first pandemic known to be caused by a new coronavirus. in the past century, there have been four pandemics caused by the emergence of new influenza viruses. as a result, most research and guidance around pandemics is specific to influenza, but the same premises can be applied to the current covid-19 pandemic. pandemics of respiratory disease follow a certain progression outlined in a “pandemic intervals framework.” pandemics begin with an investigation phase, followed by recognition, initiation, and acceleration phases. the peak of illnesses occurs at the end of the acceleration phase, which is followed by a deceleration phase, during which there is a decrease in illnesses. different countries can be in different phases of the pandemic at any point in time and different parts of the same country can also be in different phases of a pandemic. source: cdc’s “updated preparedness and response framework for influenza pandemics.”. risk assessment risk depends on characteristics of the virus, including how well it spreads between people; the severity of resulting illness; and the medical or other measures available to control the impact of the virus (for example, vaccines or medications that can treat the illness) and the relative success of these. in the absence of vaccine or treatment medications, nonpharmaceutical interventions become the most important response strategy. these are community interventions that can reduce the impact of disease. the risk from covid-19 to americans can be broken down into risk of exposure versus risk of serious illness and death. risk of exposure: the immediate risk of being exposed to this virus is still low for most americans, but as the outbreak expands, that risk will increase. cases of covid-19 and instances of community spread are being reported in a growing number of states. people in places where ongoing community spread of the virus that causes covid-19 has been reported are at elevated risk of exposure, with the level of risk dependent on the location. healthcare workers caring for patients with covid-19 are at elevated risk of exposure. close contacts of persons with covid-19 also are at elevated risk of exposure. travelers returning from affected international locations where community spread is occurring also are at elevated risk of exposure, with level of risk dependent on where they traveled. risk of severe illness: early information out of china, where covid-19 first started, shows that some people are at higher risk of getting very sick from this illness. this includes: older adults, with risk increasing by age. people who have serious chronic medical conditions like: heart disease diabetes lung disease cdc has developed guidance to help in the risk assessment and management of people with potential exposures to covid-19. what may happen more cases of covid-19 are likely to be identified in the united states in the coming days, including more instances of community spread. cdc expects that widespread transmission of covid-19 in the united states will occur. in the coming months, most of the u.s. population will be exposed to this virus. widespread transmission of covid-19 could translate into large numbers of people needing medical care at the same time. schools, childcare centers, and workplaces, may experience more absenteeism. mass gatherings may be sparsely attended or postponed. public health and healthcare systems may become overloaded, with elevated rates of hospitalizations and deaths. other critical infrastructure, such as law enforcement, emergency medical services, and sectors of the transportation industry may also be affected. healthcare providers and hospitals may be overwhelmed. at this time, there is no vaccine to protect against covid-19 and no medications approved to treat it. nonpharmaceutical interventions will be the most important response strategy to try to delay the spread of the virus and reduce the impact of disease. cdc response global efforts at this time are focused concurrently on lessening the spread and impact of this virus. the federal government is working closely with state, local, tribal, and territorial partners, as well as public health partners, to respond to this public health threat. highlights of cdc’s response cdc established a covid-19 incident management system on january 7, 2020. on january 21, cdc activated its emergency operations center to better provide ongoing support to the covid-19 response. the u.s. government has taken unprecedented steps with respect to travel in response to the growing public health threat posed by this new coronavirus: foreign nationals who have been in china, iran, the united kingdom, ireland and any one of the 26 european countries in the schengen area within the past 14 days cannot enter the united states. u.s. citizens, residents, and their immediate family members who have been any one of those countries within in the past 14 days can enter the united states, but they are subject to health monitoring and possible quarantine for up to 14 days. people at higher risk of serious covid-19 illness avoid cruise travel and non-essential air travel. cdc has issued additional specific travel guidance related to covid-19. cdc has issued clinical guidance, including: clinical guidance for management of patients with confirmed coronavirus disease (covid-19). infection prevention and control recommendations for patients, including guidance on the use of personal protective equipment (ppe) during a shortage. cdc also has issued guidance for other settings, including: preparing for covid-19: long-term care facilities, nursing homes discontinuation of home isolation for persons with covid-19 cdc has deployed multidisciplinary teams to support state health departments in case identification, contact tracing, clinical management, and public communications. cdc has worked with federal partners to support the safe return of americans overseas who have been affected by covid-19. this is a picture of cdc’s laboratory test kit for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2). cdc tests are provided to u.s. state and local public health laboratories, department of defense (dod) laboratories and select international laboratories. resize iconview larger close this is a picture of cdc’s laboratory test kit for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (sars-cov-2). cdc tests are provided to u.s. state and local public health laboratories, department of defense (dod) laboratories and select international laboratories. download icondownload imageimage icon[jpg, nan ] an important part of cdc’s role during a public health emergency is to develop a test for the pathogen and equip state and local public health labs with testing capacity. cdc developed an rrt-pcr test to diagnose covid-19. as of the evening of march 17, 89 state and local public health labs in 50 states, the district of columbia, guam, and puerto rico have successfully verified and are currently using cdc covid-19 diagnostic tests. commercial manufacturers are now producing their own tests. cdc has grown the covid-19 virus in cell culture, which is necessary for further studies, including for additional genetic characterization. the cell-grown virus was sent to nih’s bei resources repositoryexternal icon for use by the broad scientific community. cdc also is developing a serology test for covid-19. other available resources the following resources are available with information on covid-19 world health organization, coronavirusexternal icon page last reviewed: march 26, 2020 content source: national center for immunization and respiratory diseases (ncird), division of viral diseases homecoronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) how to prepareplus icon how it spreads protect yourself protect your familyplus icon caring for children pregnancy & breastfeeding if you have animals protect your homeplus icon household checklist disinfecting your home detailed disinfection guidance detailed planning guidance stress & coping symptoms & testingplus icon symptoms should you get tested reducing stigmaplus icon key facts are you at higher risk for severe illness?plus icon people who are at higher risk older adults people with asthma and covid-19 people with hiv steps to prevent getting sick if you are sickplus icon what to do if you are sickplus icon caring for yourself at home caring for someone frequently asked questions travelplus icon travelers returning from international travel returning cruise ship travelers travel in the us travel health notices travelers prohibited from entry to the us faq for travelers public health resources cases & latest updatesplus icon cases in the us testing in the us world map situation summary cdc in action schools, workplaces & community locationsplus icon 15-day pause disinfecting your facility resources for home schools & child careplus icon guidance for school & child care faqs for administrators checklist for teachers and parents talking to children colleges & universitiesplus icon interim guidance for administrators of us institutions of higher education guidance for student foreign travel for institutions of higher education faqs for administrators businessesplus icon interim guidance for businesses and employers gatherings & community eventsplus icon interim guidance for event planners election polling locations faqs for event first responders and law enforcementplus icon information for law enforcement personnel community- and faith-based organizationsplus icon interim guidance for community and faith leaders checklist to get your organization ready environmental cleaning and disinfection recommendations homeless populationplus icon interim guidance for homeless service providers people experiencing unsheltered homelessness interim guidance retirement communities correctional and detention facilities public health communicators healthcare professionalsplus icon evaluating and testing pui postmortem guidance interim guidance for ems infection controlplus icon interim infection prevention and control recommendations dental settings faq on infection control hcp hand sanitizer faq on hand hygiene clinical careplus icon therapeutic options for patients with covid-19 pediatric healthcare providers disposition of hospitalized patients with covid-19 inpatient obstetric healthcare guidance underlying conditions what healthcare personnel should know strategies to optimize ppe & equipmentplus icon eye protection isolation gowns facemasks n95 respirators ppe burn rate calculator ventilators healthcare personnel with potential exposure to covid-19 preparedness resourcesplus icon healthcare providers preparedness checklist hospital preparedness checklist implementing home careplus icon preventing covid-19 from spreading disposition of non-hospitalized patients with covid-19 healthcare supply of personal protective equipmentplus icon faq about personal protective equipment release of n95 filtering facepiece respirators faq for healthcare professionals healthcare facilitiesplus icon steps healthcare facilities can take interim guidance for healthcare facilities long-term care facilities, nursing homes alternate care settings dialysis facilitiesplus icon screening at intake return-to-work criteria for healthcare workers prepare to care for covid-19 health departmentsplus icon evaluating puis residential reporting a pui or confirmed case risk assessment and management pandemic preparedness resources households with pets covid-19 publications water transmission and covid-19 laboratoriesplus icon faqs for laboratories cdc lab workplus icon testing cdc grows sars-cov-2 guidelines for clinical specimens lab biosafety guidelines requests for diagnostic tools and virus research use only real-time rt-pcr primer and probe information communication resourcesplus icon buttons and badges print resources videos what's new email_03get email updates to receive email updates about covid-19, enter your email address: email address what's this? submit have questions? visit cdc-info call 800-232-4636 email cdc-info open 24/7 cdc information about cdc jobs funding policies file viewers & players privacy foia no fear act oig nondiscrimination accessibility connect with cdc facebook twitter youtube instagram syndicate cdc tv rss email u.s. department of health & human services usa.gov cdc website exit disclaimer external icon facebook twitter linkedin email sas stats exit notification/disclaimer policy close links with this icon indicate that you are leaving the cdc website. the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) cannot attest to the accuracy of a non-federal website. linking to a non-federal website does not constitute an endorsement by cdc or any of its employees of the sponsors or the information and products presented on the website. you will be subject to the destination website's privacy policy when you follow the link. cdc is not responsible for section 508 compliance (accessibility) on other federal or private website. for more information on cdc's web notification policies, see website disclaimers. cancel continue