home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library christmas holidays latest articles travel prevnext six simple ways to decorate your home for christmas leyla preston thu 15th nov 2018 4shares share tweet pin the christmas season is a great excuse to start dressing up your house in fancy festive decorations. grab your old christmas cards, colourful scrap paper and all the sparkle you can muster, and let’s decorate your home in time for christmas! here are six simple ways: table of contents decorate your floors with shine dress your front door with a bow wreath use your christmas cards as decorations decorate your table and chairs get into the festive spirit decorating your desk make lots of christmas food! jazz up your christmas tree! decorate your floors with shine during home improvements, one of the biggest changes can be made in the simplest way – by changing your floors. a large red rug can really make a room pop in time for christmas. or, if you want to be fancier than that, then why not walk on glass instead? glass floors can not only make a room brighter, but they can create an illusion of a larger room, meaning you can cram in more christmassy decor without making the room look too boxed in. dress your front door with a bow wreath (photo credit: haeley giambalvo) shout “merry christmas!” from the rooftops with a super bright and colourful wreath on your front door. you can grab a nice simple wreath from any pound shop for just £1, but it would be so much more fun to make your own. hot glue different colourful bows together to a styrofoam wreath and you’ve got yourself a unique wreath that you can use time and time again that won’t burn a hole in the pocket. use your christmas cards as decorations when we were kids our mum used to hang our christmas cards up like bunting and we knew that the christmas season was upon us. everything may seem so technical these days, but christmas cards are still in full flow. decorate your bare walls with your old and new christmas cards – there are so many pretty and colourful cards available these days that you’d have to be made of stone if they don’t brighten up your mood – and your house. decorate your table and chairs photo credit: https://www.shelterness.com/15-christmas-chair-decorating-ideas/pictures/1591/ decorating your main table with christmas colours can really make an impact on the whole christmas theme, but dressing up your dining chairs will spice up the whole room altogether. you don’t have to go all out – a simple wreath at the back of each chair and a lovely colourful centrepiece across the table will do the trick. you can go one step further and add a ‘holiday’ decoration to your windows, like the image above from shelterness.com, or around the table to get you into the spirit of christmas. if you’re looking for some new dining chairs for your home, furnish your home, have a great selection of chairs and if you order now, you can get them just in time for christmas! get into the festive spirit decorating your desk (photo credit: https://i.pinimg.com/originals/76/bf/cd/76bfcdf0994190980b6932aef53e3fe1.jpg) working over christmas? then bring christmas to you with furniture-work.co.uk! grab some tinsel from poundland and some cheap fairy lights and brighten up your work desk, so you don’t feel like you’re totally missing out over the christmas period. why not do one better and enter the #deckyourdesk social competition created by furniture at work? the aim is to get you in the mood for christmas and i can’t think of a more fun way to do it. just share a photo on social media of your decked-out christmas desk and reply to @furniture_work using the hashtag #deckyourdesk for the chance to win £500. full details can be found by clicking on the link above. make lots of christmas food! my favourite bit about christmas, apart from the presents, is pigging out on the delicious food. you may be going for a traditional roast turkey and all the trimmings, but this is your chance to get creative! i especially love the above little green christmas pancakes, which are so easy to make. just add some green food colouring to the batter and cook the pancakes in different sizes. then you just stack them up on top of each other and cover with sprinkles and a star made from apple to decorate the top. i also love making a christmas tree out of puff pastry, it’s so easy to make – watch out for the recipe coming very soon! jazz up your christmas tree! no christmas house is complete without a christmas tree. involve your children and get creative by throwing on some tinsel, baubles (don’t forget chocolate baubles!) and fairy lights. complete your tree with an angel or a star at the top and dress up the whole look with lots of presents. job done! christmas is a time of happiness, cheer and a whole lot of giving. you don’t have to be religious to enjoy the sheer joy this season brings, so make sure you pass on the good cheer and enjoy this beautiful and very magical winter season. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:christmasdecorationinterior design related posts top five tips for spreading the cost of ... the ultimate parenting gift guide – give... how to help reduce poverty and change pe... simple hacks to spruce up your nursery f... 7 floor layout plan mistakes to avoid christmas spiced apple and walnut chutne... half term fun at ora’s cookery event looking after your money after christmas kids bedroom ideas on a budget creating the ideal family bathroom fun things to do with the kids over wint... what you should consider before buying a... ho, ho, ho! jolly christmas pancake idea... superfood christmas tree salad – the big... top 10 best educational christmas toys a... home hacks to revamp a tired home call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... have you visited the winter wonderland y... how to give back a little during christm... quick and simple fashion tips for busy m... bathrooms.com ultimate diy guide for hom... interior design: is minimalist living ou... create the ultimate pirate bedroom for y... four steps to a perfectly styled living ... how to redecorate your room on a budget great ideas for what to include in a mod... how to save money on gifts this christma... personalised gifts for the family this c... how you can use matched betting to save ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 4shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok