toggle navigation create and go home all courses login six-figure blogger the formula for making six figures from your blog with digital products and services, without being scammy or spending thousands on over-priced courses! off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! maybe some of these feelings will resonate with you… overwhelmed about making the correct next step. webinars, launches, email funnels, ads, etc. what’s the right next step? if you’ve been blogging for more than a moment, you know it can be a bit frustrating trying to figure out what direction you should go in. the sad truth is that it can also turn out to be overwhelming and disappointing when you find out most “strategies” and “guru tricks” out there don’t actually work without buying some $2,000 course. everyone is now an expert about being an expert. launches about launching. blogging about blogging. webinars about webinars. i can’t scroll through my facebook feed these days without some new “guru” popping up trying to sell me their webinar system for $1,000+. from personal experience, we know how different it is making money from our health blog than it is from our make money blog at create and go. that why we share the lessons from avocadu (our health blog) because we don’t want to be those people who only blog about blogging. spending a lot of time working for little money. if you’re a little more seasoned blogger, this can be a very real feeling. you just don’t understand why some bloggers can make so much while you hustle your butt off and hardly make anything. you constantly feel like they know something you don’t. losing your motivation. you know you are a smart person and able to be a full-time blogger, but some of the doubts are starting to creep in. “will i ever make this work?” or “are the people who make it just lucky??” sick of working your job and ready to become a full-time blogger. it can be so draining waking up and working at a job you don’t like to build someone else’s dream. you want to be a full-time blogger, but you need a formula for making a full-time income! if you’re feeling any of these, you are in the right place, my friend. we went from $1,000 blogging to making over $20,000 per month from our blogs… in just 3 months! and now we make over $50,000/month blogging... it might sound insane, but lauren and i started in the exact same seat as many of you are sitting in now. we had a blog and were making some money from it using affiliate marketing and other methods, but we were not close to our goal of living the dream as full-time bloggers. many of you are probably feeling like there’s some sort of ceiling preventing you from earning serious money from your blog. i get it. as a blogger, there are two problems you face when trying to scale your blog and what you do. ironically, they have very little to do with overall traffic and much more to do with how you monetize that traffic. but more on that in a minute. in our first year of blogging, we were able to progress into this... stripe earnings: paypal earnings: those are snapshots from our first year blogging. where we made over $103,457.98 with our health and wellness blog. i know that might be frustrating for some of you to hear if you’ve been blogging for a few years and are still trying to break out of the $500 - $5k per month range, but hear me out... our health and fitness blog, avocadu.com, was registered on sep 25, 2015, and a year later on sep 25, 2016, that’s how much money we had earned! over 90% of the total sales volume came from sales of our digital products and services. we figured that we’d rather sell our own products than affiliate products. this process led to massive increases in revenue. ...and it didn’t stop there! actually, it got wayyyy better over time... these are the monthly reports from our health and fitness blog, avocadu, for just one month (march 2017). stripe earnings: paypal earnings: we currently make over $20,000/month with our health and wellness blog, and the income that we make on create and go puts us over the $50,000/month mark, which is just mind-boggling to us! plus, more importantly than making money is what the money has done for us and the experiences it has allowed us to have! the life it has shown us… we’ve gotten to travel to machu picchu, bali, and all over the world because of blogging. it has allowed us incredible time and life freedom that we really never dreamed of. but again, i need to emphasize to you that we were standing exactly in your shoes not very long ago... you can successfully sell thousands of digital products and services through your blog, while being honest and never scammy! we do it everyday. i know when we started blogging, we had no idea if we would ever make the whole blogging thing work. the only thing we knew is that it would be worth trying. seeing dozens of people not only making a living, but making hundreds of thousands of dollars blogging, sounded like a dream to us. so, we went for it... we spent a couple months trying things out and then decided to go all in on blogging when we quit our full-time jobs, sold our cars, moved back in with our parents' home, and decided we would give ourselves 1 year to succeed with this whole “internet blogging thing.” and at that time, we were not making any money. not a single cent. it was crazy, but we decided to make some sacrifices to give blogging an honest effort. in january in 2016, we had made our first little bit of income from the amazon associates program ($85 for the month). this was proof that it was possible to actually make money with our blog! but we were still nervous to try selling digital products again...you see, we had created a digital product before (back in november 2015), and it failed. big time. we had one person buy it. perhaps it was the confidence from the amazon sales that pushed us to keep moving forward, but we decided to try selling affiliate products first before spending any more time creating another product. after a lot of trial and error trying to sell an inexpensive affiliate product about yoga, we stumbled upon one of the major lessons found in this course. and everything started working… we started to making $20 a day, then $50 a day, then over then next month we had our first $100 day! we couldn’t believe it. we would scream with excitement over those first few sales and high five and hug like we had won the super bowl. i will never forget it. this was because every digital product sold pushed us one step closer to our dream. many late nights we spent hunched over our computers drinking copious amounts of wine trying to figure it all out were starting to actually pay off. more importantly, we felt like we were going to make it. despite our parents, friends, and family all doubting us and thinking we were crazy, we would prove them wrong. we would make it as full-time bloggers and live life on our terms. you can have all of this and more with the system that we have created... meet kelan from new york! kelan and his wife, brittany, took their blogging income from $2,000-3,000/month to over $13,000/month in just 2 months! -- "we had no idea what we were doing before six-figure blogger and after taking it, it was a complete reversal. we focused all of our attention and time to creating good opt-ins, to getting people on our list, to build that relationship, to get traffic to the offers that they need and solve their problems." our lives have done a complete 180 from those long days of work in seattle. we wake up every day to hundreds of dollars in our bank account just from the money we made while we were sleeping. we work on what we want to when we want to. we are able to travel while blogging and experience a kind of fullness to life that is hard to put into words. we’ve even made it up to $50,000 a month now, which was another milestone for us! and if it was not for blogging, it would have never happened for us. there are lots of bloggers out there that are frustrated and searching for the process that will take their blog to the next level. this is how you do it. our product is a step-by-step walkthrough of how to make an incredible income selling digital products and services with your blog. but before we show you the product, let’s look at the common mistakes you are probably making (we know, because we've made them all!) …. 7 common mistakes you’re probably making as a blogger 1. you don’t know how to create sales-centered content. creating content that is sales “centered” may seem simple enough, but it’s the difference between what made our blog thrive and just survive in the beginning. 2. you think quantity of visitors matters more than quality. there are blogs with low visitors that make six figures in a single month, and there are blogs with millions of visitors that hardly make any money. it’s all about the quality of the visitor you are bringing in to your blog. 3. you don’t understand how to build an email trust funnel. you may be using email, but chances are you’re not using it right. the right way both creates an amazing connection with your audience and provides immediate sales after subscribing. 4. you don’t believe you’re good enough. hahahahaha, no. let’s get this out of the way. you absolutely awesome just as you are. being a bad-ass blogger is something you can and will accomplish. don’t ever let those doubts drown out your dreams. 5. you don’t know the stupidly insane importance of building a high-converting sales page. you know the difference between a sales page that converts at 1% vs. 3% - triple the profits. if you get 100 visitors to that page, you will sell 3 products instead of 1. that difference alone is why many bloggers fail, but you’ll have the exact formula. 6. you think building a product sounds scary. it’s not. it just sounds scary when haven't done it yet. after completing 5+ successful digital products, we know the exact formula for making sure it’s a success every time. 7. you don’t have proper guidance. yes, you can be a professional “value” hunter on the internet, scouring for information on how to make money blogging, but it will leave you with a bunch of fragmented advice that won’t fit together. the key is understanding how everything works, a-z, for your blog. "since implementing some of the things from the six-figure blogger course, my affiliate funnel has gone from $300-600 in monthly revenue to $1,200 in august and $3,000 last month. at the moment, i find myself more energized and optimistic than ever before with the blog." - benjamin, six-figure blogger student meet natalie bacon from ohio! natalie made $14,273.92 in a single month using the strategies that she learned from six-figure blogger! meet tim, physical therapy blogger and founder of ptprogres.com! “i started focusing on creating products and funnels for my niche in physical therapy and that generated over $1,000/month in extra income. and that was in the first couple months.” take a second to imagine a world where you could… sell digital products that actually change the lives of your customers. you can not only sell things, but when you truly learn the art of helping solve people’s problems, your customers will not only thank you but love you for selling to them. here is a testimonial from the online weight loss program that we created: make thousands of dollars every month on autopilot. wake up every morning, check your email with a warm cup of coffee in hand, and see new sales being deposited into your bank account. yes, it’s a real thing… have supreme confidence around the products you sell. it’s easy to sell products you love. you may not consider yourself a salesperson, but there’s no need when you are simply helping other people find solutions to their problems. never be scammy or feel weird about selling. you’ll have the firm confidence and ultimate belief in the products you recommend to your readers. selling will never be weird for you, because you’ll actually be helping other people. turn your blogging business into your full-time career. you’ve achieved what most people in this industry dream about. you’ll get to wake up everyday working on something you care about. make blogging not only your career, but your lifestyle. the final step is when blogging takes over your life. you have complete freedom and control over the direction you’re headed, thanks to your blog. introducing... six-figure blogger the ultimate formula for making six figures from your blog with digital products and services, without being scammy or spending thousands on start-up costs – guaranteed let’s take a look inside what you will learn in each of the 9 modules... modules 1 & 2 – foundations and framework of the six-figure blog we will show you the entire framework and structure behind a six-figure blog. you’ll see the insider framework of our multiple six-figure blogs, learn how to build better relationships with your audience, and discover the real way 99% of six-figure bloggers make their money. it is incredibly valuable for your mindset and perspective on blogging going forward! module 3 – selling digital products via affiliate marketing did you know you can sell thousands of digital products and services without having to actually create your own? we make six-figures via affiliate marketing and will show you exactly how to do it. you will be able to find and discover incredible products to promote on your blog that your readers will love you for recommending. module 4 – creating digital products (idea forming and planning) if you’ve ever sat down and tried to create your own digital product, you know that the process can be confusing and overwhelming. well don’t fret any longer – we've got you! from forming the idea, to gathering research, and actual product creation, we break down everything for you. that way you know your product has the best chances of massive success module 5 – creating a profitable ebook from scratch, step-by-step creating an ebook can be a daunting process. that’s why we give you the exact formula we have used to launch 5+ successful products in a step-by-step process. everything from creating your product's name to outlining your product and finalizing the design is covered for you in this section. by the end, you’ll have your very own beautiful ebook ready to share with the world! module 6 – creating a profitable ecourse from scratch, step-by-step a lot of the processes behind creating a successful ebook are the same for creating a successful online course. however, we want you fully prepared for the differences if you decide to go that route! you have the exact system we use to launch our courses (including this one) in another step-by-step, virtually impossible to mess up, format. module 7 – how to create high-converting sales pages you know the difference between a sales page that coverts at 1% versus a sales page that converts at 3%? – it’s triple the profits. in this lesson, we bring you the lessons we learned while split-testing hundreds of thousands of visitors on our own sales pages. once again, everything is broken down step-by-step, so a complete beginner can do it without breaking a blogging sweat. module 8 – get thousands of the right visitors to your sales pages one of the biggest differences between a blog that makes millions and a blog that make $0, is visitors. in this module, you’ll learn how to get thousands of the right visitors to your blog and to your sales pages by creating sales-centered content. because it’s not just about getting visitors, it’s about getting the right visitor to the right page at the right time to make a sale. module 9 – building relationships with the email trust funnel most bloggers will tell you the importance of building a list. it’s true. email is where the money is at, but we take it one step further for you. we show you exactly how to build an automated trust funnel that turns your new subscribers into raving fans and customers in less than a week! it is the final frontier in being a six-figure blogger and a must-watch lesson for any blogger! and sooo much more! meet amanda, health blogger at blissfulhealthcoaching.com! “i’m actually having better communication with my audience. i’m building trust with my audience. my audience is engaged more with my content, and i’m getting to share my heart with those people. all from restructuring my email marketing from six-figure blogger” "finally launched my course today. i've had 2 sales even before it was launched. i'm starting to product content around the course to drive more traffic to it. thank you again lauren & alex. your course simplified the process for me and i really think the quality of the course was 10 times better because of your instruction." - michael, six-figure blogger student meet faith hawks from south florida! faith says, "before six-figure blogger i was making nothing except google ads... i'm now making $1,200 a month and haven't even finished the course!" she also got to quit her job she didn't like and work part-time at a better job while she continues to build her blog! course curriculum resources available in days days after you enroll start private support group start our favorite resources introduction and expectations available in days days after you enroll start thank you from alex & lauren! (1:07) start course focus strategy start course objectives start where to start (12:07) the six-figure blog framework available in days days after you enroll start the strategy behind a six-figure blog business (9:52) start blog sales equation simplified (14:40) start the customer journey (11:44) start the six-figure blog equation (4:55) start sponsored posts and ads (12:14) start affiliate products vs. your own (13:37) affiliate marketing available in days days after you enroll start why you should start with af (9:21) start the basics of affiliate marketing (8:13) start common mistakes (8:08) start finding great affiliate products (11:18) start great affiliate programs right now start review articles and videos (21:01) start where to link affiliate products start selling affiliate products: email (7:10) creating digital products and services (idea forming & planning) available in days days after you enroll start ideas, data, and research (14:30) start using surveys (16:12) start define your customer and problem (7:23) start setting a date and schedule (6:51) creating an ebook from scratch available in days days after you enroll start ebook product and content outlines start creating the product opt-in (15:25) start creating the product name (3:26) start creating the product headline (11:16) start creating product bonuses (12:03) start creating the product outline (8:18) start creating the first draft (7:31) start creating covers and images (22:41) start finalization and delivery creating an ecourse from scratch available in days days after you enroll start course product and content outlines start creating the product opt-in (15:25) start creating the product name (3:26) start creating the product headline (11:16) start creating product bonuses (12:03) start creating the product outline (8:18) start creating and recording presentations how to sell: high-converting sales pages available in days days after you enroll start where to host and sell your products start sales page sequence (8:29) start sales page headlines (5:50) start sales page body copy (10:00) start product intro and bonuses (7:28) start product price and guarantee (12:04) start frequently asked questions (14:09) start getting testimonials (6:25) start tools to boost conversions getting visitors to your sales page available in days days after you enroll start sales-centered content (13:57) start article structure (24:08) start video structure (14:33) start getting honest clicks (8:35) start home page sales boost (9:28) email marketing mastery (trust funnels) available in days days after you enroll start why email works (4:51) start trust funnel overview (4:54) start why people subscribe to a blog (1:19) start product-focused opt-in (6:09) start email marketing services (3:47) start switching to convertkit (5:01) start setting up a form & sequence (17:21) start trust funnel template (days 1-4) (9:39) start trust funnel template (days 5-8) (5:00) start automations and rules (5:39) start setting up the trust funnel template automation in convertkit (14:14) start importance of cleaning out your list post-purchase (after the product is sold) available in days days after you enroll start post-purchase funnel (5:47) start post-purchase funnel structure (15:04) final thoughts available in days days after you enroll start key points to remember (5:57) start some honest blogger shit (40:29) start why traffic cures all bonuses available in days days after you enroll start fast cash flash-sale email templates start keeping track of financials (19:14) bonus lessons available in days days after you enroll start how to get more google traffic to your blog with seo (47:32) start secrets to growing an instagram account (10:00) become an affiliate for create and go available in days days after you enroll start become an affiliate for create & go start six-figure blogger images (for affiliate use) pssssst. someone told us you liked bonuses…! well okay, everyone likes bonuses. so, not only are you going to get those incredible modules, but you're also going to get... bonus #1. fast cash flash sale email templates ($497 value) already got a list of fans? that’s awesome, because this simple email template is going to show you how to turn your new product or affiliate product into fast cash with a proper flash sale. it’s likely you will probably soon pay for the entire course with this one product alone. these are pre-made templates, where all you have to do is plug in your name, a few minor details, and hit send to start rolling in the dough. it's great for brand new bloggers too, for later on down the road. bonus #2. blog financials and spreadsheets ($297 value) keeping up with your blog's progress and money can be a pain in the a$$. that’s why we have given you the exact same spreadsheets we use to organize and keep track of of blog's finances. remember that saying, “if you treat it like a business, it will pay you like a business?” it’s true. these spreadsheets are awesomesauce and a huge timesaver for any blogger. bonus #3. private community support ($47/m value) in this group, you will be able to ask us questions about the program, get updates, discuss strategies, etc. you can also chat with other members to toss around ideas, develop new strategies, and get feedback on your progress! bonus #4. lifetime access and updates as we all know, the world of blogging is changing constantly. it seems like every month a major change happens changes everything and we’ll be there for you when that happens. we will update the course as needed and help you overcome any unforeseen hurdles that may arise (as they will!). off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $297 enroll in course for $297 meet rachel paul, a current student at columbia! rachel was able to make $3,858 just four months after buying the course and while still working on her dissertation! "you guys are really down to earth and tell the truth... i rave about it to my friends and other people." "these courses give you everything you need in order to succeed and make money blogging. thanks alex and lauren for what you're doing... you make everything so easy to understand in this complicated blogging world!" - kari, six-figure blogger student meet bola sokunbi from clever girl finance! bola was able to immediately increase her sales page conversions by 25% in her first week using six-figure blogger, leading her to more sales and customers. "you delivered on what you said you'd deliver on your sales page!" who is six-figure blogger for? intermediate bloggers this course is not suitable for brand new bloggers. if you've started a blog and have made your first bit of income ($0-$1,000) but are looking to expand that growth, this course is for you! if you've just launched your blog and don't have any traffic yet, this course is going to be a bit too advanced for you! people who actually want to help others. if you want to create some slimy product and trick people into buying using our methods, this ain't for you, holmes. this is about creating real and honest products that truly help people reach their goals. these methods are powerful and you don’t get to 6 figures being a jerk. those interested in creating your own products or learning how to sell to your audience better. both are covered extensively. there is some more advanced affiliate marketing training in this course, because there is a lot of crossover between selling any digital product. there is also tons of sales page and email marketing training in this course as well that can really make a huge difference to your bottom line. busy people! we know many of you still have full-time jobs, so we do our best to break down everything in as simple of a manner as possible. there’s a ton of content in the course (there’s no way around it), but we included only what’s absolutely needed and left out the fluff. who is six-figure blogger not for? people looking to get rich quick. you won’t buy this course and wake up a millionaire. if that’s your expectation or desire, this course is not for you, my friend. it takes time to become a successful blogger, but this course is designed to cut down that time drastically for you! anyone who has just started their blog and hasn't started driving traffic yet. if you are still working through wordpress and trying to design your blog, our launch your blog course is a better option for you. personal blogs that don’t really want to make money. blogging as a hobby is fine, and there’s nothing wrong with it, but this course is about making actual money from your blog. if you’re just blogging for fun and have no real vision for a future, this course is not for you. anyone scared of rolling up their sleeves and doing some work. no, you don’t become a six-figure blogger or become elite at anything without putting in work. welcome to life. who are the bloggers that are teaching this madness?? alex nerney & lauren mcmanus co-founders, avocadu & create and go hey there, blogger! we're alex and lauren, and we own a health and wellness blog at avocadu.com as well as a blog called createandgo.com, where we teach people just like you how to turn your passion into a profitable business you love. we absolutely love what we do here at create and go, and we've been featured on some major websites for what we do. in less that 9 months of working online together, we turned our health and wellness blog into a passive income machine that generates over $20,000 per month in blogging income. we were able to quit our full-time jobs working as a personal trainer (alex) and a cpa (lauren) to pursue our dreams of being able to work from home and we now make over $100,000/month with our two blogs. we have even been able to travel to countries like nicaragua, peru, bali, portugal, and more - all while working on our blogs! don't get us wrong... it takes hard work and dedication, but you'll find that working on something you love and that has the ability to majorly impact your future is a million times more rewarding and fun than a job that you hate. now, it's your turn to experience the fun and success that we've been able to achieve! let's do this thing together! frequently asked questions what if i am a newbie blogger? if you are in the beginning stages of trying to drive traffic to your blog and make your bit of income blogging, this course is not for you. our make money blogging course is designed to help new bloggers drive their first bit of traffic to their site and make their first $1,000/month. only if you have already gotten the traffic thing down and are ready to consider creating your own digital products or services should you grab this course! what if i haven't started my blog yet? if you haven't started your blog yet, this course will not be ideal for you. our launch your blog course is dedicated to teaching you how to start, build, and launch your blog and we recommend starting there first. you can always hop into six-figure blogger afterward when you are ready! :) what if i’ve been blogging for a while (1 year or more)? if you have an audience already and have a good foothold on blogging, this course will change the game for you. there is not a doubt in our hearts. the lessons are from thousands of different experiments with our own blogs from our two-headed dynamic team. even if you have a product, you’re going to learn more about automating the sales process than any other blogging product on the market. just the section on sales pages alone could mean thousands of extra dollars in your pocket every month. will this course help me get traffic to my blog? no, it will not. we do provide some insight on how to get more visitors to your sales pages, but this course is specifically about monetizing a blog through selling products and services (both affiliate marketing and/or your own). it's not about driving traffic, because that's a whole different ballgame, my friends. that is why we created pinterest traffic avalanche. will i need to purchase anything else once i get the course? it depends on whether you are building your own product or not. if you plan to just use affiliate marketing exclusively, then there is nothing else you need to purchase! we do recommend a paid software for email marketing, because of the ease of use, customization, and power. it actually saves you so much time (and therefore money - time is money in our book), but it's completely optional, we have included free options as well. now if you do want to build your own product, you will need a platform to host that product. this will cost anywhere from $39-99/month. we have recommendations inside the course. can i find this information for free online? not really! 90% of the information you will find on blogging is incredibly fragmented and incomplete. this is just the nature of blogging and how the internet works. yes, you can start trying to hunt out this information on your own, but you will spend hundreds if not thousands of hours like we did looking in the wrong spots. this is 100% the course we wish we had when we started out. it would have saved us so much time and money, it's painful for us to think about! is there a time limit to complete the course? how long do i have access? there is no time limit to going through the content in this course. it's a completely go-at-your-own-pace thing! your access to the course doesn't expire. the blogging world is an ever-evolving and changing monster that you have to stay on top of if you want to win! this is why you get lifetime access to this content, including videos, worksheets, and any future updates to the course! do you offer any refunds or guarantees? absolutely. if you go through the course, implement our strategies, and don't see any results, then you can email us within 60 days for a full refund. all we ask is that you provide evidence that you've put these methods into place with your blog or website and can show that they have not worked for you. all refunds are subject to the terms of the full refund policy linked on the footer of this page. what format is the content delivered in? video! you will have video instruction and step-by-step walkthroughs of every major topic. this is by far the best way to learn the material we provide - by us demonstrating exactly what we have done to have so much success. is my credit card secure? credit card security is extremely important to us. that's why we've partnered with stripe to handle the billing and provide a secure socket layer, 128-bit encryption. frankly, your credit card data is safer making an online purchase through our secure site than it is using it to pay for gas or buy food at a restaurant. so feel comfortable knowing your transaction is 100% completely protected from fraud. off original price! the coupon code you entered is expired or invalid, but the course is still available! get started now! paid course coupon discount $297 enroll in course for $297 © create and go 2020 terms of use privacy policy refund policy create and go home affiliates