skip to content menu about me contact me my toolbox services seo/site consulting and coaching insider25 premium my course how to use pinterest to drive more traffic to your niche site march 27, 2020march 26, 2020 by shawna newman are you relying primarily on google for traffic to your site? do google algo updates make you a nervous wreck? if you answered ‘yes’ to both of those questions, then i can relate because i used to be you. in fact, it wasn’t until 2018 that i started getting serious about diversifying the traffic sources … read more categories social media marketing leave a comment website speed optimization: how i improved page speed on an ads-heavy and images-heavy site march 13, 2020march 13, 2020 by shawna newman like most affiliate and content site owners, i often struggle with finding that perfect equilibrium between page speed and lots of ads, images, and other on-site content. and when i added ezoic to one of my sites last year, getting serious about page speed improvements became more of a priority for me. of course, the … read more categories seo, websites leave a comment it’s all (really) starting now: case study & income report [feb 2020 edition] march 9, 2020march 6, 2020 by shawna newman as i sit here to write up this report, i can’t help but think, what the hell have i gotten myself into? so, that’s where i’m at — how was your february? but seriously, this is not only a big commitment but kinda nerve-racking. i mean, normally with a case study if it’s a failure, … read more categories business & money, websites 8 comments my all-bases-covered checklist for publishing new articles on a site march 6, 2020february 16, 2020 by shawna newman since i got back into consulting and coaching late last year, i’ve had the good fortune of helping out people who are completely new to niche sites and site building in general. for me, this has been a treat because i truly love helping out people who are just starting on their journey. but it’s … read more categories websites 1 comment so, i hear you like case studies & income reports february 12, 2020 by shawna newman in recent months, i’ve gotten a few emails from people asking when i’m doing a new case study. but here’s the thing with case studies – they can be hella boring in the beginning when nothing is going on and you’re waiting to get some traction in the serps. yeah, i know that people like … read more categories business & money, websites 3 comments post navigation older posts 1 2 … 14 next → level up your inbox i don't post a lot. you don't wanna miss it when i do. be awesome and get my updates by email. subscribe the latest how to use pinterest to drive more traffic to your niche site website speed optimization: how i improved page speed on an ads-heavy and images-heavy site it’s all (really) starting now: case study & income report [feb 2020 edition] my all-bases-covered checklist for publishing new articles on a site so, i hear you like case studies & income reports my #1 website hosting choice wpx hosting my favorite backlink service topics i cover business & money seo social media marketing websites © 2020 skipblast digital llc | powered by extreme amounts of coffee, swearing & sarcasm disclaimer | privacy policy