i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: totoro pumpkin scone recipe baking bread recipes round up small batch small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies. posted march 23, 2020 by stephanie we’re living in crazy times. usually, when i’m stressed, i eat. actually, scratch that, i eat all the time, but when i’m stressed, eating makes me feel even better. if you’re at home, practicing social distancing and self isolation, maybe you need a sweet treat but also don’t want to bake an entire batch of cookies that will be eaten by you and your other. here are 11 small batch baking ideas that are perfect for one, two, or three – perfect for rationing those baking supplies. stay safe and healthy out there friends :) small batch french yogurt lemon loaf cake this is the sweetest little small batch loaf that you can eat for breakfast, with coffee or tea, or as dessert. since a mini loaf is so much smaller than a regular one, i think it pretty much means you can have as many slices as you like, am i right? this yogurt cake comes together super quickly and there’s a nice little part where you can get meditative and rub lemon zest into sugar. it’ll bring a little sweetness into your life for sure and fill up your home with the most delicious baking cake smell. small batch buttermilk biscuits everyday can be brunch day when you’re working from home. treat yourself to these buttery, flaky, crisp-on-the-bottom tender on the inside biscuits. if you don’t have buttermilk, there’s a little tip on how to make your own at home with regular milk and vinegar :) small batch mini sticky bun cinnamon roll monkey bread this is what you make when you need some serious comfort. the warming smells of brown sugar and cinnamon are sure to warm your heart and remind you of all that’s good in the world. now is the time to make cinnamon buns! the best small batch brown butter chocolate chip cookies this is my all time favorite chocolate chip cookie recipe for so many reasons. it’s perfectly plush and chewy in the middle with pools of melted dark chocolate, crisp rippled edges, and nutty brown butter. there’s a full on recipe and a small batch one, so feel free to make as many (or as little) cookies as needed. i recommend you make the full batch because warm chocolate chip cookies are pure love. small batch banana bread you just need two super ripe bananas for this lil loaf. it’s essentially a small batch version of flour bakery’s super popular famous banana bread. it’s a little more finicky than most banana breads but so worth it. if you haven’t had it or haven’t tried it, please do! it’s one of the best banana breads out there. moist and just the right amount of dense and fluffy and full of so much banana goodness. try a slice warm, it’ll change your life. small batch carrot cupcakes with cream cheese icing if you’re looking for a sweet little nugget of carrot cake, this is it! i decorated these like miffy, that super cute dutch bunny with an x for a mouth. i just love her. you can definitely make these as regular carrot cupcakes too, but why not break out the white chocolate candy melts and make some ears?! we all know we could use some happiness right now and i can’t even with how cute these are. oh, and they taste good too: moist and carrot-y with just the right amount of cinnamon and ginger. small batch yogurt lemon poppyseed loaf this little loaf reminds me of spring with its sunshiny lemon flavor and crunchy poppyseed bite. not too sweet and tender from the yogurt this is a simple mix and bake loaf that is perfect right out of the oven and maybe even better in the days to come or lightly toasted. small batch black pepper parmesan chive scones to be honest, i call these both biscuits and scones because for the life of me i can’t figure out what the difference is between the two. doesn’t really matter though because these are insanely delicious: crisp on the outside, tender on the inside, and super savory. best of all, they’re a mix, drop, and bake situation. make yourself some coffee and pretend you’re at your favorite cafe! small batch one bowl blueberry bread speaking of cafes, are you missing out on all the slices of loaf cakes you use to buy? i mean, what’s coffee without something sweet, right? this is the little blueberry loaf that will make your days inside all the more sweet. you can use fresh or frozen berries, which makes life just a little easier. this recipe makes a mini loaf or you can make it in muffin tins too. small batch jiggly fluffy japanese cheesecake since travel in the foreseeable future is out, why not drown your sorrows in a cheesecake? a super fluffy, jiggly, small 6 inch cheesecake that is so light and tender that eating the whole thing won’t seem too insane. it’s seriously so tasty and perfect because who wants a giant cheesecake? wait…maybe i do?! if you want a big one, i have a recipe for that too! small batch triple coconut loaf if you’re in love with coconut flavors, you’ll get a triple hit with this mini triple coconut loaf. it comes together super quickly and gets it coconuttiness from shredded coconut, coconut yogurt, and coconut oil. this one stays nice and moist for days, if you want to keep it around that long. that’s it! hope you guys are inspired. don’t forget to take care of yourselves and don’t go too crazy reading the news. 6 comments faith says: march 23, 2020 at 8:49 am i watched my brother bake when we were all kids at home. a family of 10. i thank god i have her recipes. when i smell those familiar aromas it automatically call me. bake its a wonderful experience. reply georgeanna says: march 23, 2020 at 11:17 am been looking for these kind of deserts for long time. thanks for putting them out here. going to try some today. got 2 boys 4&7 they like to help. good for now esp since no school and stay at home. reply jeanie says: march 23, 2020 at 10:34 pm steph, this is genius! i don’t bake but i will definitely try some of these “small batch” recipes! those chocolate chip cookies look sooo decadent!!! reply stephanie says: march 24, 2020 at 1:02 pm ooh i hope you try them, i love them so much :) reply alice says: march 25, 2020 at 10:33 am thank you, steph!! i made the poppyseed loaf yesterday and it made me so happy. so adorable and delicious. it was exactly what i needed to eat. reply stephanie says: march 25, 2020 at 1:22 pm so happy it brought you a bit of joy! aren’t mini baked things just so cute?!?! stay safe and cozy xoxo reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website pastryround upsmall batch bakingsweets 9 romantic-ish easy valentine’s day dinner ideasread 11 keto recipes to make right nowread the best part of thanksgiving is leftoversread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved