 services online audit strategy first website review local marketing system professional services marketing a la carte seo websites pay per click guides local marketing professional services consulting business marketing strategy plan content marketing customer journey referrals mobile marketing email marketing seo paid search social media crm marketing automation website design advertising small business finances sales about company john jantsch speaking books blog podcast contact us contact our team find a consultant become a consultant menu the ultimate guide to small business keyword research keyword research is an important strategic marketing practice that, when thought of correctly, never really ends. while many people think of this… read more most recent popular categories advertising certified marketing manager consulting business content marketing interviews lead conversion lead generation local marketing marketing tools mobile seo online marketing podcast professional services referrals restart seo seo guide small business finances social media strategy strategy first top podcasts on duct tape marketing transcript podcast finding success and whole-life wealth marketing podcast with rock thomas on this episode of the duct tape marketing podcast, i visit with motivational speaker, best-selling author, and podcaster rock thomas. after achieving great financial success himself, thomas began to think about what true success really meant. he saw many others who had reached their financial dreams, but floundered in their […] read more podcast becoming your best virtual you marketing podcast with john jantsch on becoming your best virtual you virtual and work from home is getting a lot of hype right now, for obvious reasons. i’ve been a big fan of virtual work for many years, and there are some tools i’ve come to love and rely on over the years. i’m going […] read more podcast the 5 steps to writing persuasive copy marketing podcast with anik singal today on the duct tape marketing podcast, i visit with anik singal. he is the founder of lurn.com, a speaker, author, and expert in digital business and marketing. singal is passionate about helping fellow entrepreneurs to grow their businesses and achieve their biggest goals. that’s why he created lurn.com, a […] read more join john jantsch for the next live benefits discovery webinar where he will showcase the many benefits of partnering with the duct tape marketing partner network. during the call you’ll learn: how the network can help you scale your business how you can increase the scope of your engagements how to create long-term retainer engagements how to seriously increase your client retention every benefit our members enjoy click here to save your seat weekend favs march 21 my weekend blog post routine includes posting links to a handful of tools or great content i ran across during the week. i don’t go into depth about the finds, but encourage you to check them out if they sound interesting. the photo in the post is a favorite for the week from an online source […] read more podcast timeless habits for cultivating success marketing podcast with stephen m. r. covey today’s guest on the duct tape marketing podcast is speaker, author, and global practice leader at the global speed of trust practice, stephen m. r. covey. m. r. covey is the former ceo of the covey leadership center, where he helped his father, stephen r. covey, launch his […] read more subscribe to the duct tape marketing podcast if you know your small business needs marketing, but don’t have the time or resources, look no further. the duct tape marketing podcast covers everything from earning referrals to managing time and being more productive. listen to podcasts podcast making the world a better place through a community of changemakers marketing podcast with jayne warrilow on this episode of the duct tape marketing podcast, i sit down with speaker, author, and resonance expert jayne warrilow. in may 2019, warrilow received a transmission during her meditation practice from her spirit guides. it was inspiring and, she soon realized, was a message that she needed to share. […] read more podcast how to make partner marketing work for you marketing podcast with robert glazer on this episode of the duct tape marketing podcast, i sit down with founder and ceo of the performance marketing agency acceleration partners, robert glazer. acceleration partners is a global leader in partner marketing, helping brands to start or grow their affiliate marketing program. in addition to being globally recognized […] read more the 3 essential seo tools for any marketing consultant to manage a strong seo strategy, you need to keep a lot of balls in the air. from comprehensive keyword research to keeping tabs on the competition to tracking backlinks, you need a great set of tools to help you manage it all. we use a suite of tools to help us manage the many […] read more weekend favs march 14 my weekend blog post routine includes posting links to a handful of tools or great content i ran across during the week. i don’t go into depth about the finds, but encourage you to check them out if they sound interesting. the photo in the post is a favorite for the week from an online source […] read more 1234…442next > all categories advertising certified marketing manager consulting business content marketing interviews lead conversion lead generation local marketing marketing tools mobile seo online marketing podcast professional services referrals restart seo seo guide small business finances social media strategy strategy first transcript most recent popular categories advertising certified marketing manager consulting business content marketing interviews lead conversion lead generation local marketing marketing tools mobile seo online marketing podcast professional services referrals restart seo seo guide small business finances social media strategy strategy first top podcasts on duct tape marketing transcript 5 questions you should ask every customer constantly seeking feedback from your customers is a great way to learn how to market your business more effectively. if you’ve never done this before, do it immediately as it is one of the best ways to discover what you do that actually differentiates you from your competition. i can’t tell you how many times […] read more 5 reasons why you must advertise sending email is free, creating a facebook page is free, twitter outreach is free, cold-calling is free, publicity is free, referrals are free, and advertising costs money. so why is it that even with all of these wonderfully low cost and free ways to promote your business i contend that you must make advertising one […] read more the biggest marketing challenges for small businesses i’ve written about marketing for small business for years and spend enough time with business owners that some might consider me an expert on the topic. in order to ensure i stay on top of trends and provide you with the most current information and tips, i continue to conduct my own research and get […] read more the duct tape marketing blog serves to deliver simple, effective, and affordable small business marketing advice. join over 10,000 subscribers and get our best articles delivered via email. sign up 3 types of content that gets more traffic, links and shares than all the others why waste time creating content that doesn’t get you traffic, links, and shares? the problem for many content creators is they aren’t sure what type of content to focus on, so they try creating everything and anything they feel like creating in the moment. that works for some, but not for all (especially not for […] read more nine ways to get new mileage from worn out content people don’t have enough time to continue to create the amount of content they need to attract visitors and convert them into leads. i get it. creating content can be challenging and time-consuming, and coming up with new material regularly can seem impossible. i’m here to tell you it’s doable, and you don’t even have […] read more subscribe to the duct tape marketing podcast if you know your small business needs marketing, but don’t have the time or resources, look no further. the duct tape marketing podcast covers everything from earning referrals to managing time and being more productive. listen to podcasts why your website needs a storyteller instead of a designer your website is the hub of your online presence – period. (well, maybe that’s not exactly true from you right now, but it must be!) as such, it has to do some heavy lifting and that heavy lifting must extend far beyond the interactive brochure still built today by many business owners. your website must […] read more disrupt or be disrupted in a few short years much of what you do, make, fix, sell, and ship, won’t mean much to anyone. in fact, there’s a pretty good chance that if you stay put doing whatever it is your business does right now – you’ll be out of business. if you want to survive, let alone thrive, […] read more no one cares how many followers you have – how to properly measure social media success when social media first started being used by businesses, it was all about the numbers – the bigger, the better. your performance was measured in follower counts or the volume of likes, shares, retweets or pins you could accumulate. but as social media has evolved to become a core marketing channel, the way we interpret […] read more seo isn’t dead, it’s simply hiding look around today, and you’ll find any number of pundits declaring that seo is dead. no, seo is most certainly not dead, it’s just moved to a new location and didn’t leave a forwarding address. (in fact, in that new home, it’s more important than ever.) seo has come out seo used to hide in […] read more 6-step checklist for revamping your small business’ online presence it’s 2016. the days of prospective customers sauntering down main street or even flipping through the yellow pages in hopes of stumbling upon your business are long gone. we live in the age of information now, and the internet is king of the castle. when someone needs a service or product, they go online to […] read more the ultimate guide to small business keyword research keyword research is an important strategic marketing practice that, when thought of correctly, never really ends. while many people think of this type of thing as a technical aspect of search engine optimization (seo), i would like to suggest that it’s so much more. if fact, the practice of seo has changed so dramatically over […] read more all categories advertising certified marketing manager consulting business content marketing interviews lead conversion lead generation local marketing marketing tools mobile seo online marketing podcast professional services referrals restart seo seo guide small business finances social media strategy strategy first transcript home a la carte seo websites pay per click services online audit strategy first website review local marketing system professional services marketing consultants overview live benefits presentation about company hire john jantsch to speak books blog podcast contact us contact our team find a consultant     866-duc-tape (382-8273) made with <3 in kansas city privacy policy home a la carte services consultants about contact us 866-duc-tape (382-8273) made with <3 in kansas city privacy policy     this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled close get the guide to growing your small business in the 7 steps to small business marketing success you'll learn: check why strategy must come before tactics check why and what customers really buy how to make google your new best friend how to install an integrated marketing system subscribe now and get our guide