events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: ecommerce salesforce coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise small business magazine selections from the best content of small business trends packaged into digital magazines. convenient. organized by topic. click to read on flipboard. makers and crafters kidpreneurs business ideas main st. business office organization website traffic food business holiday business franchise business green business start a business women in business hr management business travel marketing business social media sales strategy tech business farming business home business archived editions download the archived editions below in pdf format. business planning legal online traffic loans young entrepreneurs profitability your website office tech planning cyber security staffing strategic planning social media hiring selling finance sales advice cloud marketing travel tips lifestyle business travel about the magazine our story started in 2003 when our founder, anita campbell, had a vision. she wanted to create a digital destination packed with practical resources for small business owners. a space with high editorial standards and well researched, reliable business information. a go-to source for practical small business advice. soon she was joined by a team of dedicated business experts, professional editors and talented writers. a large community of small business people just like you were attracted to the site. year after year, the community grew. fast forward to today. small business trends has created a vast library of 25,000 articles. and now we have collected the best of our best for you, assembled into digital magazines. we’ve made it convenient and portable for you to delve deep into a particular topic while on the go. enjoy! by entrepreneurs, for entrepreneurs our editor, joshua sophy meet our magazine editor, joshua sophy. a journalist with 20 years of experience in traditional and online media, joshua leads the magazine’s operations. joshua got his start in the rough-and-tumble newspaper business of pennsylvania’s coal region, first as a sports writer and later as a beat reporter covering daily news. he eventually founded his own local newspaper, the pottsville free press. joshua is a member of the society for professional journalists. he studied professional writing at waynesburg university. joshua is pictured enjoying curling, one of his favorite passions. he is backed by an experienced and professional team of business experts and writers. meet more of our editors and journalists here. professional, experienced behind the scenes we use a 3-step process to create the small business trends magazine. we: choose the perfect topic for each edition. we try to anticipate your most pressing business questions and answer them. assemble and produce the magazine. in today’s age where entrepreneurs are buried under content, we aim to carefully select the best and most relevant pieces from our content library, so you and your employees don’t have to do the digging. we also design a compelling cover that visually conveys the topic at a glance. publicize the magazine. content may be king, but promotion is queen. we use social channels, email marketing and our site to alert readers when a new digital magazine is up. here at small business trends media we are running a small company, just like you. so efficiency is always top of mind. we continually look for tools and technology to make the job go faster and help us work smarter. since starting the magazine in 2015 we’ve evolved our production process to maximize results and leverage new trends. no more labor intensive laying out of content manually into magazine pages. instead, we take advantage of technology to do the heavy lifting. we made the strategic decision to adopt a modern format for the magazine — one that recognizes how small business people consume content today. the magazines are now more like digital content collections, rather than printed documents. and they are more mobile friendly. who says you can’t start a small business magazine in today’s world? you can. you just have to think differently. "small business owners read more than ever. increasingly they read on mobile devices. so we have adapted ... and watched readership grow." joshua sophymagazine editor “we carefully examine analytics and social sharing data to decide on magazine topics. that's how we know what resonates best with readers." shawn hessingerexecutive editor small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit