video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map small businesses small businesses are now hiring apprentices. should you? the old plumber and electrician trainee model has been reimagined for the new world -- and could be exactly what a startup needs. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: viktor koen maggie ginsberg magazine contributor march 3, 2020 7 min read this story appears in the march 2020 issue of entrepreneur. subscribe » fiona mcdougall never thought she’d hire an apprentice. the practice was common in her native australia, but as a principal at the marketing company oneworld communications in san francisco, she had no time. plus, here in the u.s., the concept of it seemed like it was for…electricians? plumbers? certainly not her. but in 2017, she was invited to an unusual roundtable series with other local businesspeople. it was organized by the city of san francisco to help them develop an apprenticeship program — which is to say, paying a potential employee to work part-time while also providing on-the-job training and education. mcdougall came away thinking it could work for her. “small businesses have limited resources,” she says. “you wear many hats, and we expect people to be specialized but nimble and resourceful.” so why not train someone specifically for the role? about a year after the roundtables, the city started distributing small grants to help companies hire apprentices. mcdougall’s firm received one: $2,500 to pay for her time to manage the apprentice, plus tuition for outside training costs. the goal was to fill a digital marketing position. stories like this are becoming more common, as businesses of all sizes discover (or, in a way, rediscover) the value of apprenticeships. the conversation is being pushed along by public initiatives, policymakers, commercial education companies, and entrepreneurs themselves, who are now preaching the value of earn-and-learn arrangements. they say it’s an affordable way to train employees or upskill existing staff, and that the long-term effect is strong. according to the department of labor, every dollar spent on apprenticeships returns $1.47 in increased productivity and innovations. related: how apprenticeships can benefit your company's bottom line to understand why apprenticeships suddenly became so popular, look no further than the tech skills gap. there just aren’t enough candidates to fill the open jobs in fields like artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, and software development. currently, more than 500,000 of these “new collar” jobs are unfilled, and analysts predict the number will grow by 20 percent in three years. as silicon valley tech giants wrestled with this problem, some came to the same conclusion: if we can’t hire great employees, we have to create them. and so, a new interest in apprenticeships was born. between 2013 and 2018, the number of apprentices in the u.s. increased 42 percent, and the programs to facilitate them more than doubled, according to the department of labor. from there, enthusiasm for the concept spilled out into the broader business world. two years ago in california, then lieutenant governor gavin newsom announced a plan to add half a million high-skilled apprenticeships by 2029 — a 500 percent increase for the state. and last year, ibm and the consumer technology association (cta) launched a coalition to scale thousands of these on-the-job tech training positions across the country. as this has happened, though, many small businesses have asked a reasonable question: how can they afford the time and money to put together a whole education program? this is where a third-party company like openclassrooms comes in to connect the dots. openclassrooms was founded in france in 2013, and it works like this: when a company needs apprentices, the openclassrooms team finds and vets applicants. selected candidates then split their time between work and online classes that are project-based and designed for the specific needs of the employers. each apprentice is also matched to a dedicated mentor for weekly hour-long meetings via videoconference. it’s a 12-month program that, according to openclassrooms founder pierre dubuc, usually ends with the company hiring its apprentices full-time. in europe, two-thirds of openclassrooms clients are startups and small businesses. after expanding to the u.s. two years ago and becoming part of the cta coalition, dubuc says he’s committed to serving small businesses here as well. if his program is financially out of reach for some entrepreneurs (it typically costs around $5,000 to $15,000), the government can help with grants that are available from the u.s. department of labor. “it’s pretty cool, especially for startup companies and small businesses that want to hire one developer or two data analysts,” says dubuc. “they can have access to this program and actually be subsidized to run these apprenticeships.” related: 4 key ways to create a culture of learning as companies consider whether to bring on apprentices, many often ask dubuc the same question: what if i invest all this time and money training an apprentice, only to have them jump ship when it’s done? that’s a possibility, as it is with any employee. but advocates argue that the benefits outweigh the risks. first, they say, the arrangement cuts both ways. companies get to fully test out a potential hire for a year, without having to commit to them. and for what it’s worth, studies find that the process breeds employee loyalty. one survey in the u.k. of more than 4,000 employers who had used an apprenticeship program found the mean retention rate (of the trainees still working for the company) at 73 percent. advocates say that programs like this can level the playing field, giving smaller companies a way to staff up despite all the perks being offered by their larger competitors. “for me, the war for talent has been never-ending, trying to compete against both the shortage of talent and the resources of huge tech giants who also have deeper pockets,” says marty reaume, a former tech executive at twilio and fitbit, who now sits on openclassrooms’ u.s. advisory board. “but ultimately, some of us are getting future-focused by looking to build and develop our own talent.” and critically, they say, apprenticeships can draw in diverse and unconventional talent. many of the public-private apprenticeship programs have formed around the goal of increasing diversity in all kinds of higher-skilled jobs — from apprenticeship 2020, a $3.2 million effort in chicago, to techsf apprenticeship accelerator, the name of the san francisco program, which focuses on women and people of color. related: for entrepreneurs, apprenticeship is the ideal solution for addressing the labor market chaos jocelyne umanzor is one of the women who went through techsf’s program. the 22-year-old says she never would have thought of working in it. meanwhile, the silicon valley delivery startup postmates would likely never have found umanzor in the open market. she went to skyline college, not mit, and didn’t have the network a place like that often affords. but through the san francisco program, umanzor connected with postmates and apprenticed there while getting an online education in it, and then transitioned into a full-time role there. “it’s like a big door has opened for me,” she says. postmates is happy, too. “we need people in it who look like the people they support, and we need people writing the code who look like the end user,” says claire sands, the company’s director of communications and engagement. “that’s something that techsf apprenticeships have really been able to fill for us.” meanwhile, at oneworld, fiona mcdougall used her apprenticeship program in a slightly different way: she plucked her office administrator off the front desk and trained the woman to become the digital marketer they needed. “it was a great experience overall,” says mcdougall. “there’s some very resourceful, employable talent in the bay area, and this is a way of helping small businesses leverage that talent in a realistic way.” more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now are you paying too much for business insurance? do you have critical gaps in your coverage? trust entrepreneur to help you find out. get your quote now related books ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from entrepreneur voices on elevator pitches buy from amazon barnes & noble indiebound books-a-million entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on the science of success buy from entrepreneur voices on the science of success buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read entrepreneur voices on growth hacking buy from entrepreneur voices on growth hacking buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read the innovation mentality buy from the innovation mentality buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to platform building buy from ultimate guide to platform building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account small businesses these city programs are giving minority- and women-owned businesses access to capital small businesses how does that independent coffee shop survive? small businesses amid small business's surging optimism, 5 insights from main street can guide your entrepreneurial path small businesses how you can win the 'david and goliath' battle with big brands business ideas 7 businesses you can start with almost no cash