events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: small business growth motivational coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise small alcohol distillers step up to meet hand sanitizer demand published: mar 26, 2020 by samson haileyesus in small business news 2 30 shares | 30 email this article 30 shares 30 email this article with hand sanitizers going out of stock in stores and distribution centers, it is leaving many without during the coronavirus outbreak. alcohol distillers are trying to fill the gap. this is in part due to the tax and trade bureau giving the green light for alcohol beverage producers a special exemption to make hand sanitizer. before the coronavirus outbreak, the production of sanitizer was minimal due to low demand. however, the demand for sanitizers has peaked exponentially because of the growth of the outbreak. hand sanitizers generally decrease infectious agents on the hands. they are believed to be more effective at killing microorganisms and better tolerated than soap and water. this is because hand sanitizers are made mostly of alcohol. and because distilleries make alcohol or ethanol, the key ingredients in sanitizers, it is proving to be a great match. the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc) recommends that an alcohol-based hand sanitizer have at least 60% alcohol. alcohol distilleries making hand sanitizer below are some distillers who are working towards easing the shortage by switching from producing liquor to hand sanitizers. jack-azz distilling, llc. this pennsylvania based distiller has diverted production towards sanitizers to ease the shortages and has also donated some of their product. “we’re were able to produce so far approximately 5 cases of sanitizer which have been donated to two different nursing homes, one hospice agency and the local fire company,” reads the message on their facebook page. short path distillery this distiller has started making and providing hand sanitizers of 2 oz bottles for $3 with sales limited to 2 bottles per person. smoky quartz distillery smoky quartz distillery now offers its very own hand sanitizer for free. and a recipe for those who want to make their own hand sanitizer. steadfast spirits distilling company this distiller from new hampshire is providing free sanitizers for personal use. those seeking some sanitizers can either bring a bottle or take one free from the distiller. tito’s handmade vodka this vodka distiller has announced it testing its sanitizer formula. once it finalizes the formula and packaging, it plans initial production of 24 tons of hand sanitizer over the next several weeks. yahara bay distillery yahara bay has come out with a nifty marketing strategy by combining vodka and a hand sanitizer. it’s just vodka, a 140-proof, 70 percent alcohol by volume (abv) vodka, which also functions as a hand sanitizer. berkshire mountain distillers this distillery has opened its doors for hand sanitizer pick up and sale. it has however set limits on the volume of purchases people can make. the maximum purchase per person is 4. 5 oz bottles and 1 quart size container. coppercraft distillery michigan based coppercraft distillery has announced in addition to regular production, it would produce and donate about 10,000 gallons of hand sanitizer to ease shortages. the distiller says it’s following a formula from the world health organization (who) by primarily using glycerol and a grain spirit to create a hand sanitizer that’s just under 80% alcohol. asbury park distilling company asbury park distilling co. has shifted its spirit production in favor of producing hand sanitizers. this distillery is offering two free 2-ounce bottles of its hand cleaner to retailers and restaurants who remain open to serve the community in a bid to keeping communities resilient. big brands anheuser-busch the brewing giant anheuser-busch the maker of budweiser has too joined the fray into producing sanitizers. it has announced it is using its supply and logistics networks to begin producing and distributing bottles of hand sanitizer to accommodate the growing needs across the nation. bacardi the behemoth rum distiller has also announced that it will be supplying ethyl alcohol, or ethanol to produce the much-needed hand sanitizers that are in high demand as a result of covid-19. in addition, it has pledged over half a million of the 10-ounce hand sanitizer units produced in partnership with bacardi to be donated to local communities. the number of companies helping the nation and the communities they serve is growing by the day. so, this is just a partial list. image: short path distillery more in: coronavirus biz advice 2 comments ▼ 2020-03-26 editor's picks hootsuite launches social listening tool geared for small businesses 23% feel unsafe at their coworking space small alcohol distillers step up to meet hand sanitizer demand samson haileyesus linkedin facebook 2 reactions robert brady march 26, 2020 at 9:03 pm i believe that we can all band together and overcome this pandemic. i appreciate efforts like this. thanks for sharing. reply aira bongco march 27, 2020 at 1:26 am i love how businesses are working together for the benefit of the public. this will help more people who don’t have access to antibacterial products. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website report this ad subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad small business spotlight spotlight: spacebase makes room for better business meetings view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit