events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: marketing 101 small business growth coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise small business resources: business information for small business owners 452 shares | 49 320 52 101 email page 452 shares 49 320 52 101 when it comes to small business resources, we’ve got you covered. browse through this ever-expanding collection of free marketing resources for small business, from in-depth guides, to actionable social media templates, checklists, business guides, business tools and more. below is a mix of small business resource articles, templates, checklists or quizzes written by small business experts for small business owners just like you. you can use the menu on the left to select the type of resource you’re looking for or just click on any of the resources below to delve into a mix of business information on a specific topic that’s written for small business owners. category please select a category management marketing sales finance technology view all type please select a type guides templates checklist research quiz whitepaper view all show all resources apply for a small business loan today when banks say no, you want yes! our small business loans center, powered by biz2credit, offers quick business funding answers. biz2credit has arranged over $2 billion in funding for amazing businesses like yours! get funded do you qualify for a small business loan? do you know what it takes to qualify for a small business loan? this tool analyzes how a business lender will view your personal credit score, debt-to-income ratio, and how attractive your cash flow position is. learn more your guide to incorporate a business browse this online guide that walks you through the process to incorporate a business. also included is a short quiz that can help you decide which business structure is right for you and your business. view guide your guide to business gift giving gift giving at the holidays is not just a way to strengthen bonds with family and friends. it can also cement business relationships. this online guide to business gift giving can help you accomplish that. view guide your guide to buying a franchise decide if a franchise is right for you. walk through the basics on how to buy a franchise and view this guide online or in a convenient, 64-page downloadable pdf document that you can save, print out and refer to later. view guide choose your business structure not sure which business structure is right for you? this quiz will help you determine what type of business structure is right for your situation: llc, incorporation or dba. it's fast, fun, easy and only takes a minute. learn more conduct competitive research have you ever wondered, "how does my business compare?" if so, this free competitive intelligence tool can help research your business. need help with new business development? this tool can identify geographical areas to target, too. learn more social media calendar template this social media calendar template for small business is based on the calendar format we use internally here at small business trends llc. get your social media marketing campaigns on track using this calendar. download make a one page marketing plan would you like to make a one page marketing plan for your business? if so, you've come to the right place! to generate a one page marketing plan, simply complete the steps on the form you'll find here. create a plan download this cybercrime security ebook study after study highlights a sad fact. small businesses are treated as “soft” targets by hackers and cybercriminals. those of us in small businesses need to be on guard when it comes to cybersecurity. download sponsored by microsoft energy tax savings ebook this ebook will tell you how to control your energy budget, where to look for little known energy rebates and loan programs for small businesses and much more. get the ebook sponsored by constellation clever tips for home improvement contractors pointers and advice for starting, owning and operating a home improvement contracting business. for small businesses in landscaping, cleaning services, handymen, plumbers, remodelers and more. read more smart advice for running your healthcare business a collection of advice articles for small businesses in healthcare, including doctors, dentists, chiropractors, audiologists, eye doctors and more. read more top franchise opportunities - lists and more lists we list the top franchise opportunities, including our favorites: food franchises, storage, retail, service businesses and much more. get started business ideas: over 1,000 startup ideas! a huge collection of business ideas you can start today! lists of ideas to choose from -- for entrepreneurs of every experience level (including no experience at all). get started high octane tips for running an automotive business secrets to running your small automotive business. for small businesses including car dealers, repair shops, salvage, auto detailers, motorcycle dealers, small auto parts dealers and more. start it up! what is digital knowledge management & why should you care? artificial intelligence like siri, alexa, and google assistant are changing how consumers find and interact with your business. find out how these services determine what answers to give. watch it now! sponsored by yext check your small business credit score get free personal and business credit scores and reports you can actually understand. it takes two minutes to sign up. check it now sponsored by nav.com motivational gallery let your innovative spirit soar with this collection of motivational content! everything from motivational quote images, to lists of quotes, to advice on how to stay motivated. leverage it to inspire you and your team. get motivated how to fix your business credit ebook learn about small business lending myths and the mistakes entrepreneurs make when applying. get actionable tips to fix your business and personal credit scores -- and improve your chances of getting a business loan. download how to close sales quickly download this free whitepaper to begin streamlining your contract signing procedures and processes so that you can close sales faster and get paid sooner. download sponsored by docusign small business advertising guide learn how to advertise your small business. in this guide we answer all your questions about advertising including how much to pay, where to advertise for free and which ads work best. read more list of national days for marketing national days of observance have become popular on social media -- especially as hashtags. use this huge national holiday list to draw attention to your posts by celebrating days important to your customers. view list here 9 point sales tax compliance checklist there are now more than 11k sales tax jurisdictions across the u.s. sales tax compliance can be an arduous task. use this checklist to get started. download how to start a business with no money checklist lack of funds should not deter you from pursuing your entrepreneurial dreams. use this checklist to get started and make sure you cover all your bases. download finding a small business mentor checklist finding a business mentor that meets all of the requirements ensures you find one who is going to be helpful and relevant to your business. download checklist to negotiate a business deal this 9-point negotiating checklist has been honed specifically for small business. these nine points are critical for successful small business negotiations. consider each of them when negotiating a business deal. download the infographic resume: pros, cons and how-to pictures are not only worth a thousand words, they can also help you get a job. visual content is more appealing to look at and can illustrate … learn more download free landing page templates a successfully designed landing page converts website visitors into taking action. get landing pages, a css style sheet, and even the thank-you page that your website visitor is directed to upon completing the lead form. learn more download free marketing plan templates developing a marketing plan is nothing more than setting goals and making a to-do list that will get you there. it's really not much different than planning a party. get started today using this template. learn more no resources found no resources were found for the criteria that you have chosen. please make sure that you have at least one category and one type selected. would you like to be seen here? contact our sales team at: info@smallbiztrends.net small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit