events resource center magazine contact us march 26, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: what is marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise small business marketing need marketing ideas, advice and strategies? our experts have created original articles, guides, checklists and tools. explore the small business marketing content below to see how to leverage a wide range of marketing approaches to grow your customer base and make your business a success. small business advertising guide in this guide, we explain the ins and outs of advertising your business in newspapers, tv, radio, online and more. advertising guide list of national holidays for marketing marketing around “national days” and holidays is trendy. bookmark and use this list to develop marketing campaigns. national holidays marketing explainers what is partnership marketing? what is the anchor tag? what is affiliate marketing? what is click bait and why be careful? what is influencer marketing? what is brand storytelling? marketing articles marketing is a broad area that includes advertising, social media, email marketing, search engine visibility, event marketing, lead generation, public relations, content marketing and much more. how to use the psychology of colors in marketing psychology tells us that color affects human behavior. a choice of color can cause people to feel upbeat, energetic, calm, or some other feeling or emotion. see how large brands and small businesses can use color to evoke different reactions. most popular 25 marketing strategies for beginners 50 small business advertising ideas top free business listing sites places to turn your website into an app tips for creating great marketing videos 15 examples of great integrated marketing campaigns business headshots: best 20 tips most recent how to create an unforgettable unboxing experience for your customers these old school marketing techniques are making a comeback 14 essential roles to fill when building your marketing department more marketing articles content marketing email marketing event marketing direct marketing 1 % of b2b buyers this is the % of business buyers using linkedin during their purchasing journey. linkedin is clearly important in b2b. social media statistics $ 1 spent on direct mail u.s. businesses spend $167 per person on direct mail. in return, they sell $2,095 worth of goods. that’s a 1,300% return. direct mail statistics 1 % use email marketing the vast majority of businesses (80%) are using email marketing to help with customer retention. email is key to maintaining loyalty. customer retention stats marketing tools use this template for the simplest marketing plan you can imagine. one page marketing plan use our free template to establish a regular schedule for your social media accounts. social media calendar template learn how to stay in compliance when it comes to collecting and remitting sales tax. sales tax compliance checklist social media marketing social media blew onto the scene over a decade ago. fast forward to today and it is an essential part of most small business marketing. here are some of our most popular articles: complete history of social media how to use social media for business 8 ways to stand out on social media 50 business ideas to start on instagram 20 popular social media sites right now 20 apps for better instagram pics and videos 6 benefits of social media 20 great instagram ideas 45 creative social media marketing tips 7 insider tips to rock your social media presence recent in social media 10 tips for improving your small business marketing through content and visuals what is social commerce? what is linkedin live and how can it help your company? how to use instagram to generate leads for your small ecommerce brand you can thank us later – 15 blogs to help with your social media all social media sales marketing and sales go hand-in-hand. marketing gets you on the buyer’s radar. selling, on the other hand, is the act of turning an interested party into a purchaser. to grow a small business, your organization must become adept at both. reader favorites sales tips for non-sales types 10 sales mistakes to avoid 5 steps to better sales presentations 7 things to know about selling services master online sales with these 20 tips learn about sales inside sales: what is it? outside sales: 15 techniques to improve sales reps: how to hire your first one cold calling: 25 phone sales tips role playing: don't be fooled, it won't improve sales recent in sales how to start selling gift certificates 4 tips to manage sales during the coronavirus outbreak motivational sales quotes to inspire you take these 5 small daily steps toward bigger sales results all sales articles local marketing do you get most of your customers from within a 50 mile radius, like millions of small businesses? learn about google my business; map placement; online reviews; attracting local buyers; and more. guide to content marketing for local businesses people search millions of times of day for something local. this guide shows you how to make your online content relevant to local searchers. most popular 20 local marketing strategies 31 tips for digital marketing to local buyers how does local search work? 12 ways to get noticed in local markets lead generation strategies for local biz should you join a local chamber of commerce? why hyperlocal advertising works so well recent in local 25 ways you can help small businesses now how can the klosebuy app help your local business? small business saturday quiz: test your knowledge all local articles about our marketing content here at small business trends, we’ve been writing about marketing for more than a decade and a half, since 2003. our in-the-trenches experts — who have hundreds of years of combined marketing experience — keep you up to date on the latest techniques, ideas and strategies. and our staff of professional journalists cover marketing product news, trends and events. our mission is “small business success .. delivered daily” and we try to live up to that mission through the original content we produce. here’s what others say about us: a well-regarded media company serving the small business community; plenty of strategic and how-to advice …. – bill furlong, founder, squarestack search last updated: november 9, 2019 small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit