home articles podcast tabletop graphic design about menu home articles podcast tabletop graphic design about smash bros. brawl tutorial videos august 3, 2014 i made this series of ten short tutorial videos for super smash bros. brawl. they appeared on the official nintendo channel accessible through the wii and on nintendo's website. nintendo asked me to explain the game to new players in a way that shows them there is more going on than they might think. remember, these videos are for new players, not for tournament champions and they were intended to help the smash scene grow. according to nintendo, smash bros. sold well in the us and in japan, but struggled more in europe. it sold more in both the us and japan, while the perception in europe was that it's "that kids game with the mario kart characters." that's an ironic statement considering that the "mario kart characters" aren't even originally from mario kart, but that game sold well in europe so it's a point of reference for many. nintendo hoped that i could help european gamers see the game more competitively, so they asked me to create this series of videos. special thanks to david "scamp" cantrell and cedric "ceirnian" qualls for gameplay advice, rich "fmjaguar" delauder for editing, and mike "bocci" boccieri for video capture. part 1: the two games part 2: attack types part 3: evasion and throws part 4: movement part 5: kos part 6: the edge part 7: controlling space part 8: super armor and auto-cancels part 9: items part 10: tournament finals match tags videos, set1 ← the secrets of donkey kong country 2street fighter tutorial videos → best of sirlin.net playing to win book codex design (23 articles) designing pandante blivand design designing yomi game balance and yomi designing puzzle strike street fighter hdr articles balancing puzzle fighter solvability slippery slope subtractive design multiplayer game balance: part 1: definitions part 2: viable options part 3: fairness part 4: intuition game balance handout tutorial videos: street fighter tutorial smash bros. brawl tutorial more articles... chat my tabletop games | my online games | playing to win | recommended books | about | contact