skip to main content jump to list of all articles search topics articles . design & development books . physical & digital books events . conferences & workshops jobs . find work & employees membership . webinars & early-birds browse all topics clear search browse all topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow seriously, red? switch contrast seriously, red? switch contrast don’t miss these latest articles shane hudson wrote how to make life easier when using git meow! git 5 tools 209 techniques 233 suzanne scacca wrote how to increase mobile conversions with category page design meow! mobile 332 design 432 paul hanaoka wrote how should designers learn to code? git, html/css, engineering principles (part 2) meow! tools 209 workflow 321 design 432 drew mclellan wrote smashing podcast episode 12 with paul boag: what is conversion optimisation? meow! smashing podcast 12 all you want is a fast, secure web? that's why we use ad blockers, too, you know. we gotta keep those servers running though... so we've set up membership for smart cookies like you. coming up next: smashing tv session with yuriy artyukh on “power of shaders”, new discounts on tools, services and tutorials, ...plus a seasoned selection of fancy cats.about smashing membership → hide notification latest posts mar 23, 2020 announcing smashing online workshopsby rachel andrew with so many people — including our workshop leaders — working from home, we thought we would bring our smashing workshops from our home offices to yours.→ read more mar 23, 2020 inspired design decisions with otto storch: when idea, copy, art and typography became inseparableby andrew clarke in this seventh instalment of inspired design decisions, andy clarke will explore how american art director and graphic designer otto storch inspires his designs for the web.→ read more mar 20, 2020 creating sortable tables with reactby kristofer giltvedt selbekk making your tables sortable in react might sound like a daunting task, but it doesn’t have to be too difficult. in this article, we’re going to implement all you need to sort out all of your table sorting needs.→ read more mar 19, 2020 a practical overview of css houdiniby adrian bece in this article, we take a look at each part of houdini, its current browser support, and see how they can be used today using progressive enhancement.→ read more 1,651 smashing members a friendly community that keeps this website alive. with books, webinars, discounts and networking — for just 1 coffee a month. join the family.explore features → already have an account? sign in! mar 18, 2020 how should designers learn to code? the terminal and text editors (part 1)by paul hanaoka for the purpose of this two-part series of articles, we’re going to assume the answer for “should designers code?” is “it depends.” in this first part of the series, we’ll take a look at getting comfortable with the command line and text editors.→ read more mar 17, 2020 how indigo.design usability testing takes the guesswork out of web designby suzanne scacca this article explains the process of usability testing: what it is, when you should use it and how to generate data-backed insights while developing your website using indigo.design.→ read more mar 16, 2020 implementing infinite scroll and image lazy loading in reactby chidi orji in this tutorial, we’re going to learn how to use the html intersection observer api to implement infinite scrolling and image lazy loading in a react functional component. in the process, we’ll learn how to use some of react’s hooks and how to …→ read more mar 13, 2020 stay calm and read smashing magazineby iris lješnjanin it’s that time of the month! join us as we share the latest news and highlight the things we’ve been working on and have also enjoyed reading over the past month.→ read more new on smashing tv a channel where seasoned developers show how they design, build, work and play. coming up next: power of shaders with yuriy artyukh (apr 2).see all upcoming episodes → already have an account? sign in! see all latest articles march 2020 • shipping now ethical design handbook: leaving dark patterns behind. with practical techniques & strategies to make honest design work for digital products. help your business grow sustainably — without dark patterns — and comply with gdpr and ccpa.learn more about the book → community links person of the week niels leenheer has been fascinated by the web ever since he saw the very first web browser by tim berners-lee. today, he is a mozilla tech speaker, google developer expert, and chairman of the fronteers conference committee. passionate about web standards and open source, niels created html5test.com and whichbrowser. you can find him on twitter as @html5test. thank you for everything you do for the web community, dear niels! fedor parfenov wrote optimizing hero images with machine learning march 27, 2020 — machine learning at work in design: fedor parfenov shares an interesting case study on how expedia optimized hero images on hotels.com using multi-armed bandit algorithms. chidume nnamdi wrote native errors in javascript march 26, 2020 — chidume nnamdi wrote a handy overview of common types of native errors in javascript so that whenever an error is thrown either in your terminal or browser, you can easily spot where and how it occurred. michelle barker wrote compound grid generator march 25, 2020 — a compound grid is two or more grids of any type (column, modular, symmetrical, asymmetrical) on one page. they can occupy separate areas or overlap. michelle barker’s compound grid generator helps you save time drawing endless variations. mark robbins wrote good email code march 24, 2020 — to help us write email code that is semantic, funtional, and accessible, mark robbins created the library good email code. you are welcome to simply copy and paste code or you can read up and learn the theory behind it. max böck wrote emergency website kit march 23, 2020 — in cases of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. but cms websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic. max böck put together a small, static boilerplate for this use case. hugo giraudel wrote making sense of node march 20, 2020 — if you want to make sense of all the node/npm/npx jargon, hugo giraudel put together a quick little guide with the most important things. more links on twitter featured smashing book design systems meet design systems, a recent smashing book in which alla kholmatova explores how to set up an effective design system to create great digital products. with common traps, gotchas and lessons learned.table of contents ↬ curated posts guides new front-end challenges to master css grid layout pattern library progressive web apps switching to https http/2 guidelines react & vue.js redux for designers vue components guides performance optimization & strategy quick performance wins building for performance front-end optimization back-end optimization better compression progressive web apps perceived performance guides design patterns & checklists responsive art-direction perfect configurator perfect web form perfect accordion perfect date picker perfect slider perfect comparison table perfect infinite scroll perfect carousel privacy ux guides improving workflow & data protection gdpr for developers privacy framework estimating time dealing with irrational clients getting deliverables right meeting deadlines convincing clients invoicing clients smashing newsletter imagine you wrote a beautiful song and nobody discovered it. that would make any cat sad. don't let that happen! your (smashing) email subscribe → useful tips for web designers. sent 2× a month. you can unsubscribe any time — obviously. see all articles browse all smashing magazine topics accessibility android animation apps css design design patterns design systems e-commerce freebies graphics html illustrator inspiration ios javascript mobile pattern libraries performance photoshop plugins react responsive web design service workers sketch typography ui usability user experience wallpapers web design wordpress workflow with a commitment to quality content for the design community. founded by vitaly friedman and sven lennartz. 2006–2020. smashing is proudly running on netlify. fonts by latinotype. ✎ write for us contact us about us (impressum) privacy policy membership login delivery times advertise back to top