news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals deals snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 listen, paying $20 vs. the regular $60 is an absolute no-brainer. by knowtechie deals march 25, 2020 image: knowtechie borderlands 3 has been out since september and if for some reason you still haven’t picked up a copy, now is the time because amazon has the game down to just $20 for both the ps4 and xbox one. walmart is running the same deal too if you prefer to do down that route. borderlands 3 is simply more borderlands 2 – more story, more characters, more guns. new updates to skills and skill trees are all interesting, and i’m sure some min-maxers will make some absolutely bonkers builds in the weeks and months to come. it doesn’t push any boundaries, but for me, that is ok. read our full review of the game here for more. listen, paying $20 vs. the regular $60 is an absolute no-brainer. we’re not sure how long this price will be around for, so we suggest pulling the trigger on this sooner than later before the price drop expires. click the button below for more information. see at amazon editors’ recommendations: razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now this infrared forehead thermometer is down to just $56 right now this iphone x/xs battery charging case is only $13 right now for prime members whoa, civilization vi is down to just $15 for the nintendo switch just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. related topicsamazondeals knowtechie deals hooking you up with the best deals on gadgets, gaming, technology and everything else under the sun. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) these are a whole lot better than standard airpods and a whole lot cheaper. this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers $139 is a great price for a robot vacuum. don't pass this up. one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now probably wouldn’t hurt scooping up a few at this price. razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now this is one of the best prices we've seen to date on this. this infrared forehead thermometer is down to just $56 right now in times like these, you might really need this. this iphone x/xs battery charging case is only $13 right now for prime members it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out this is a deal that... snag a philips hue starter kit for just $120 in this one-day sale if you're looking to dip your toes into the world of smart lights, this... whoa, civilization vi is down to just $15 for the nintendo switch if animal crossing isn't your thing, this sure is. razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie