skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me snap stories around the world the best way to follow my travels is on snapchat (@drewbinsky). i treat my snapchat like daily vlog, where you can get a behind-the-scenes look at my travels and witness unique cultures, people and food. i am currently getting about 20k views per snap from people all around the world. click on a country below to watch the highlights on snapchat (or click a link below the map): snap stories around world choose a country below: north america: canada, united states caribbean: barbados, dominica, grenada, st. lucia, st. vincent, trinidad and tobago, cuba south/central america: bolivia, brazil, colombia, guyana, peru, suriname, guatemala, el salvador europe: albania, amsterdam, belarus, belgium, bulgaria, czech republic, germany, hungary, iceland, ireland, latvia, liechtenstein, lithuania, luxembourg, macedonia, malta, moldova, monaco, romania, russia, san marino, serbia, slovenia, ukraine, united kingdom asia: armenia, azerbaijan china, georgia, hong kong, india, indonesia, japan, kazakhstan, laos, macau, malaysia, north korea, philippines, russia, singapore, south korea, taiwan, thailand, turkey, vietnam middle east: bahrain, kuwait, oman, qatar oceania + aus + nz: australia, new zealand, fiji, vanuatu africa: egypt, tunisia *other snapchat stories* – how i got started w/ traveling & making a living on the road – most bizarre foods i’ve ever eaten – behind the scenes of filming travel hungry – world record attempt – 12 unecso sites in 24 hours! – scuba diving in vanuatu – scuba diving in st. lucia – snap geo-filters in 50+ countries – learn how to say “hello” in 15 languages – “where in the world are you?” a snapchat game – eating mcdonald’s in my 50th country – brail – can you guess which country i was in? – 5 awesome facts about indonesia – 2 months recap in se asia, pacific islands & aus/nz – a day in the life of a snapchatter – top 10 travelers to follow on snapchat too lazy to watch all my stories? no problem — i’ve compiled all my top moments on snapchat from 80+ countries into this 1 minute highlight reel: i encourage you to snap me anytime with travel questions, advice, or just to say hello. even though i receive about 100+ snaps everyday, i try to respond to every one! snapchat in the press –kevin jonas (from the jonas brothers) featured me on “this week in snapchat,” where he talked about my trip to london and dublin. – ktla interviewed me on “how i’m using snapchat as my full-time job” – az central did a full length story on “how i snapchat the world for a living” – channel 12 news did a live interview on me as “the snapchat traveler” – fox 10 did a live interview on “how i make a living snapchatting the world” – elite daily listed me as #3 in their top travelers to follow on snapchat – yahoo travel – 5 snapchat accounts that will inspire your wanderlust – uproxx – the best travelers to follow on snapchat – thought catalog – this is how i’m using snapchat to host my own travel tv show – getting stamped listed me as #1 on their list of top 10 travel bloggers to follow on snapchat – adventurous kate listed me as #1 on her list of top snapchat travel bloggers to follow – the hostel girl included me in her list of top 14 travelers to follow on snapchat – eva travels included me in her list of the definitive list of travelers to follow on snapchat – two drifters listed me as #2 on their list of 7 travel bloggers that i religiously follow – anna everywhere – top travel blogger to follow on snapchat in 2016 – featured as one of the “best snapchatters” on the story star mobile app – listed as the best travel snapchatter in ghost codes mobile app – thought catalog – top 8 travelers to follow on snapchat – elite daily interviewed me for how to have awesome snapchat stories – paste magazine included me in what influencers things about instagram vs. snapchat – under 30 experiences listed me as the #1 travel snapchatter to follow – koovs included me in their top 5 celebrities to follow on snapchat – st. chrisopher’s listed me in top travel snapchatters to follow in 2017 what people are saying: recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.