skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: snapchat stories snap geo-filters in 50+ countries […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in barbados i spent 8 nice days in barbados in sept. ’16, during my 6 week trip across the south caribbean. i really enjoyed the relaxing lifestyle around the island, as well as hanging out at some of the best beaches in the carib! oh – and the caribbean music blasting everywhere was awesome! you can watch the snapchat […] read more… posted in snapchat stories1 comment snap stories in st. lucia i spent more than 2 weeks in st. lucia in sept – oct ’16, during my 6 week trip across the south caribbean. out of all my travels in the caribbean, st. lucia is my absolute favorite for it’s natural beauty, amazing beaches and friendly people. you can watch the snapchat highlights of my time in st. […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in the philippines the philippines is my favorite country on earth, and i have been to more than 20 islands on 8 different trips. filipino culture is amazing, and i highly recommend visiting if you get the chance! you can watch the highlights of my trips around the philippines on video and snapchat (below). top 7 islands in the […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in georgia in september 2015, i spent a week a few days touring around tbilisi, georgia. i had no idea what to expect from this country before my visit, and it turned out to be pretty amazing. you can watch the top highlights of my trip below on snapchat. if you want to learn more about my experiences in tbilisi and get […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in belgium i’ve visited belgium for the first time in july, 2015 and i attended tomorrowland music festival. it was the best 3 days of my entire life! you can watch the highlights of my trip to brussels and tomorrowland on snapchat (below). if you want to learn more about my experiences at tomorrowland and get exclusive […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in germany i’ve been to germany more than 10 times, and i think it’s one of the most fascinating countries in the world. you can watch the highlights of my trips on video and snapchat (below). is cologne the best city in germany? big hallo from #germany! i love this country! it's my 8th time here, but […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in hungary in august 2015, i spent 5 days back in one of my favorite cities in europe – budapest! i attended sziget music festival, which i had only heard about a week before going, and it was one of the most insane weekends of my life. i have been back twice since that as well. you can […] read more… posted in snapchat storiesleave a comment snap stories in south korea i lived and taught english in south korea for 18 months, and i absolutely love it there! seoul is my second home, and it’s always a place that i’ll visit in the future. below, you can watch some of my recent trips to korea on video and snapchat. 12 wacky things about korean culture […] read more… posted in snapchat stories1 comment snap stories in macedonia in august 2015, i spent a few days exploring the baltic country of macedonia. it actually turned out to be one of my favorite countries in europe! you can watch the highlights of my trip on snapchat (below). […] read more… posted in snapchat stories1 comment posts navigation older posts categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.