skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me snap stories in the philippines the philippines is my favorite country on earth, and i have been to more than 20 islands on 8 different trips. filipino culture is amazing, and i highly recommend visiting if you get the chance! you can watch the highlights of my trips around the philippines on video and snapchat (below). top 7 islands in the philippines the philippines has more than 7,000 islands… do you need inspiration for which ones are the best to visit? in this video, i share my top 7 favorite islands in this lovely country after spending more than 7.5 months here since 2014. what are your favorite islands in the philippines? comment them below so everyone can discover them! 'like' drew binsky on facebook for more fun travel videos, and join me on insta/snap @drewbinsky. see you next from zanzibar, tanzania!! music: epidemic sound posted by drew binsky on wednesday, january 3, 2018 is boracay the world's craziest party island?! it's party time in the philippines! as you know, the world is filled with party islands — ko phangan, bali, mykonos, gili trawangan, ios, hvar — and the list goes on… i've been to all of the above, and in my humble opinion, no island is more fun than boracay in the philippines. 365 days a year, as soon as the sun goes down, the tiny island comes alive. hundreds of bars, lounges and clubs that are lined up along the 5km sanded boardwalk, open their doors and are crowded with people from all over the world who are sharing drinks, dances and having wild fun until the early hours of the morning. even if you hate drinking, loud music and partying — you will find happiness in boracay. i just spent the past 4 days partying on this island with my family, and it was so much fun that i'm already planning my next trip back… and have i mentioned yet that boracay is also one of the most beautiful islands in the philippines?! 'like' drew binsky on facebook for more fun travel videos, and join me on insta/snap @drewbinsky music: epidemic sound posted by drew binsky on tuesday, january 2, 2018 about latest posts drew binsky a graduate from the university of wisconsin-madison, drew binsky has visited 190+ countries since 2012.he first caught the travel bug while studying abroad in prague, then taught english in korea, and now he's on a mission to visit every country on earth.follow his journey on youtube & instagram @drewbinsky 🙂 latest posts by drew binsky (see all) my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited - january 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!! - july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) - may 22, 2018 posted in snapchat stories post navigation snap stories in georgia how i got 50k followers on snapchat (8 tips) leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment * name * email * website recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.