cnet también está disponible en español. ir a español don't show this again unemployment spike space force launch coronavirus updates nintendo switch game reveals polaroid now zoom, skype, facetime tips covid-19 best products all the best products award winners versus best headphones best laptops best phones best tvs best speakers best routers best smart home best tablets best digital cameras best hard drives best av receivers best media streamers best iphone apps best coffee machines best cash back credit cards best tv streaming services best vpn services best massage guns best mattresses reviews all reviews appliances audio cameras cars desktops drones headphones laptops media streamers monitors networking phones 5g phones printers smart home speakers tablets tvs vpns wearables & vr web hosting news all news 5g apple computers culture google health & wellness internet microsoft mobile newsletters sci-tech security tech industry special features photo galleries videos how to all how to appliances computers gaming home entertainment internet mobile apps personal finance phones photography security smart home streaming tv tablets wearable tech forums smart home all smart home best smart home devices guide to smart living news tour our smart apartment tour our smart house product compatibility amazon alexa apple homekit belkin wemo google assistant lutron nest philips hue samsung smartthings wink cars roadshow reviews video news pictures recalls autocomplete carfection cooley on cars car audio electric cars auto buying program best cars best affordable cars best crossovers best electric cars best family cars best fuel-efficient cars best hybrids best sedans best suvs best trucks deals all deals the cheapskate antivirus deals identity theft protection deals mattress deals meal kit deals password manager deals pillow deals prescription glasses deals tax service deals vpn deals web hosting deals all coupons best buy promo codes ebay coupons expressvpn coupons groupon promo codes grubhub coupons hp coupons office depot coupons postmates coupons samsung promo codes staples coupons target coupons turbotax discounts verizon promo codes walmart coupons download 5g editions editions english español china france germany japan korea search go hi, settings my profile forums sign out join / sign in snowden warns government surveillance amid covid-19 could be long lasting governments could look for reasons to continue tracking people's activity, he says. abrar al-heeti march 26, 2020 2:31 pm pdt listen - 01:35 edward snowden says he's worried amplified government surveillance could extend beyond the covid-19 outbreak. getty images edward snowden on monday warned that high-tech surveillance measures governments use to fight the outbreak of covid-19, the disease caused by the newly identified coronavirus, could have a long-lasting impact. that's according to an interview with the copenhagen international documentary film festival. the us government, for instance, is reportedly in talks with tech companies like facebook and google to use anonymized location data from phones to help track the spread of covid-19. while some say the measure could be a helpful tool for health authorities to track the virus, others have expressed concerns about their information being shared with the government. snowden, a former national security agency contractor who leaked documents about mass surveillance activities, said governments can extend the access they have to people's personal information during a crisis and use it to monitor their actions. during this pandemic, for example, governments might say they're worried about public health and could send an order to every fitness tracker to look at measures like pulse and heart rate, and then demand access to that kind of activity, he said. after the virus is gone and the data is still available to them, governments can use new causes like terrorist threats to justify continually gathering and analyzing people's data, he said. "they already know what you're looking at on the internet," snowden said during the interview. "they already know where your phone is moving. now they know what your heart rate is, what your pulse is. what happens when they start to intermix these and apply artificial intelligence to it?" in 2013, snowden revealed details of nsa surveillance programs to journalists, which led to heightened concerns about privacy in the digital era. he faces charges of espionage and theft of government property in the us, and has been living in russia since 2013. comments edward snowden privacy government surveillance notification on notification off security close discuss: snowden warns government surveillance amid covid-19 could be long lasting sign in to comment be respectful, keep it civil and stay on topic. we delete comments that violate our policy, which we encourage you to read. discussion threads can be closed at any time at our discretion. english | español more from cnet upgrade to windows 10 for free right now amazon shopping hack best instant pots best live tv streaming services windows 10 tips and tricks about about cnet newsletter sitemap careers help center licensing policies privacy policy terms of use mobile user agreement ad choice ca privacy/info we collect ca do not sell my info get the cnet app app store | google play follow © cbs interactive inc. all rights reserved.