skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about social best social media management tools 2020 by jamie latest update: 16th march 2020 if you are on the internet, you are likely to have a social media account as well! that is how spectacular the rise has been with regard to the use of social networking platforms by users around the globe. whether it is individuals, professionals or businesses, most have a significant … read morebest social media management tools 2020 categories blog traffic, social twitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com by jamie if there’s one social media platform that has had the biggest impact on the gaming industry, it’s twitch. while youtube has also been a huge online money-maker for the industry, twitch has basically created an entirely new career. some of the biggest names on the platform are raking in millions of dollars a year! it’s … read moretwitch stats for 2020 – interesting facts and figures about twitch.com categories business, social facebook live stats – 2020 by jamie while facebook has been a powerhouse in the social media world for well over a decade, it wasn’t until recently that the platform began offering live streaming services. facebook live is a relatively new feature of the platform, but it has become incredibly popular among users and marketing professionals alike. facebook’s popularity has made it … read morefacebook live stats – 2020 categories social, business linkedin stats for 2020 by jamie originally founded in 2002, linkedin is a unique social networking platform that focuses on professionalism and business. while other sites are centered on uniting friends and family, linkedin is all about creating industry connections. it’s a place for working professionals to upload their resumes, network, search for job opportunities, and ultimately advance their careers. with … read morelinkedin stats for 2020 categories business, social 2020 social media image sizes cheat sheet by jamie social media platforms are forever changing the image sizes and formats, so to keep you all updated i have re-created the 2016 social media image sizes cheat sheet and updated it to 2017. the need for strong social media presence has soared in 2016 and will only increase in prominence in 2017. this is why you really need to keep up to speed with your business… categories social, cheat sheets, photography 30 best social sharing plugins for wordpress – 2020 by jamie make no mistake; social media plays a big role in the success of any modern website. social networks have completely changed the way that people communicate. this doesn’t just apply to family and friends, but businesses too. some of the biggest social media networks have hundreds of millions of active users. think about all of … read more30 best social sharing plugins for wordpress – 2020 categories social the best link bio tools for instagram 2020 – instagram bio link optimization tools by jamie do you hate having to swap out your instagram bio link weekly, daily, or even several times a day? want to supercharge that link and get more from it? guess what, you’re not alone. the good news is despite being limited by instagram to a single bio link, we can do a lot more with … read morethe best link bio tools for instagram 2020 – instagram bio link optimization tools categories social the best time to post on instagram – 2020 by jamie instagram is and will continue to be insanely popular amongst all ages and demographics. you only have to look at these instagram stats to realise how important this platform is to online businesses, offline businesses and individuals. so, you’re trying to build your empire on instagram. or maybe you’re starting a blog and want to … read morethe best time to post on instagram – 2020 categories social instagram stats – 2020 – crunching the numbers by jamie instagram is used by over 500 million people each and every day, making a presence on this social media platform a must for any brand hoping to extend their reach online. however, as is the case with any social media network, the brands who are smart about who they target, what they post, and how … read moreinstagram stats – 2020 – crunching the numbers categories social 99 incredible youtube stats – 2020 edition by jamie when youtube launched way back in 2005, no one knew back then how many hours upon hours of youtube videos we’d end up watching years down the road. apparently, everyone loves watching videos, so much so youtube was experiencing over 100 million video views each and every day just one year after first making its … read more99 incredible youtube stats – 2020 edition categories social 2020 social media keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet by jamie save yourself loads of time every day by speeding up your social network browsing with some lightning fast keyboard shortcuts! last year we put together a long list of keyboard shortcuts for all the major social media platforms. this year we have done the same and made it even bigger with the addition of ello … read more2020 social media keyboard shortcuts cheat sheet categories cheat sheets, social the 2020 social media holiday calendar by jamie whether it’s international bubble bath day, pizza day, or talk like a pirate day, it seems like almost every day on the internet there will be a day celebrating a holiday. with all these different days assigned to different causes, foods, people etc, you have no excuses when it comes to coming up with content … read morethe 2020 social media holiday calendar categories social how to make money on instagram in 2020 by jamie want to know how to make money on instagram? then you are in the right place. this comprehensive guide will cover six strategies to help you earn money on instagram. these include how to… become an affiliate marketer on instagram promote affiliate products via shoutouts sell physical products with ‘shopping on instagram’ make money through … read morehow to make money on instagram in 2020 categories make money online, social 16 best instagram analytics tools: a guide to the most effective analytics tools by jamie with instagram recently announcing that there are now over 1 billion instagram accounts in active monthly use, this social media giant is a key platform for any business or brand that is looking to market products or services. but if you want to be truly successful on instagram, then you need to track your social … read more16 best instagram analytics tools: a guide to the most effective analytics tools categories social 65+ social networking sites you need to know about by jamie updated 5th june 2019human nature by default has been programmed to be socially active to a certain extent. some people are more active, while others are less so! however, people have always been looking for ways to connect and network with each other. and, in this age of digitisation, people have found ways to be … read more65+ social networking sites you need to know about categories blog traffic, social post navigation older posts 1 2 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub