events resource center magazine contact us march 26, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: what is small business growth coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise social media marketing statistics important to small businesses published: dec 6, 2016 last updated: dec 4, 2019 by matt mansfield in social media 15 1.7k shares | 819 798 222 18 email this article 1.7k shares 819 798 222 18 email this article we’ve collected these social media marketing statistics for small businesses from a variety of sources. note: to discover how many users each social network has, see our social media statistics 2016 post. general social media marketing statistics: 77.6 percent of small businesses report using social media to promote their businesses and among them, facebook is far and away the top platform used: 44 percent of local businesses said they depend on social media to generate brand awareness, and 41 percent depend on it to drive revenue. almost 90 percent of marketers say their social marketing efforts have increased exposure for their business, and 75 percent say they’ve increased traffic. more than 50 percent of marketers who have been implementing social media marketing tactics for two years have reported improved sales. more than 1 in 3 internet users say they go to social networks when looking for more information about a brand or product. the likelihood of doing this is linked very strongly to age: facebook social media marketing statistics: 8 percent of social media marketers worldwide said facebook produced the best roi. images are responsible for 75 to 90 percent of an ad’s performance on facebook. since so many facebook users watch video without the sound on, captioned video ads can increase video view time by an average of 12 percent. the most effective length for an ad title on facebook is four words, and 15 words for a link description. 32 percent of influencers say that facebook is the best social media platform for influencer marketing. 9 percent of online consumers turn to facebook for holiday shopping ideas. twitter social media marketing statistics: the statistics below reveal that marketing on twitter is a short and sweet way to convert customers: 53 percent of users say they bought a product they first saw on twitter. 81 percent of users say that twitter impacts their purchasing decisions more than tv. 70 percent of small business followers re-tweet content. promoted tweets boost offline sales by 29 percent. 72 percent of brand followers are likely to buy in the future. linkedin social media marketing statistics: 7 out of 10 professionals describe linkedin as a trustworthy source of professional content. 50 percent of b2b buyers use linkedin when making purchasing decisions. marketers that flesh out their products and services page have 2x as many company followers. posts that include a link receive 200 percent more engagement. posts that end with a question receive 50 percent more engagement. pinterest social media marketing statistics: the numbers show that pinterest is a very effective network for ecommerce conversions: almost 3/4 (73 percent) of active pinners—and 89 percent of daily pinners—have bought something new they discovered on pinterest. 5 percent of pinners make a pinterest-inspired purchase at least once a month. 60 percent of active pinners are likely to search and browse on pinterest than browse catalogs. about half of the active pinners who have noticed promoted pins on pinterest have clicked on them to get more information. more than 40 percent have made a purchase, suggesting promoted pins inspire future action. the effect of business categories on promoted pins: instagram social media marketing statistics: 68 percent of instagram users engage with brands regularly. instagram has 58 times more engagement per follower than facebook. 50 percent of instagrammers follow a business. 60 percent of instagrammers say that they learn about a product or service on the platform. 75 percent of instagrammers take action after being inspired by a post, like visiting a website, searching, shopping or telling a friend. bottom line as the number of social media users continues to increase, these platforms have become more critical to marketing success. after all, one of the tenets of marketing is to draw attention from the right people at the right time and social media provides the perfect place to do just that. social media photo via shutterstock more in: online marketing 15 comments ▼ 2016-12-06 editor's picks when contacting your business, generation z prefers phones over social media famous sports quotes to inspire your team to success facebook libra: give us 5 minutes, we'll give you the facts matt mansfield bizsugar linkedin facebook twitter matt mansfield is the tech editor and seo specialist at small business trends where he is responsible for directing and writing many of the site’s product reviews, technology how-to’s, and lists of small business resources as well as increasing the reach of our content. 15 reactions aira bongco december 7, 2016 at 1:37 am really useful statistics you have here. i think it would be better if it was an infographic though. such useful information. reply ivan december 7, 2016 at 2:03 am i agree. i would love to see an image of that as well. reply aira bongco july 9, 2017 at 9:11 pm these are definitely useful especially if you are planning to create some infographics that are geared towards small business owners. thanks. bizepic december 7, 2016 at 1:59 am more than knowing statistics. it is important to look for the social media channels that is most important to your target market. reply bizbuzz marketing partners december 13, 2016 at 8:31 am my thought exactly! who are these people? where do they live? how old are they? are they professionals or students, blue collar workers, etc? reply pingback: 5 local marketing statistics affecting your business right now! local internet marketing pingback: social media presence | are you a lurker or a lover? pingback: grow your business with search engine optimization | tech talk radio show pingback: what is social media marketing (smm)? – venturoutconsulting.com pingback: how social media drives small business pingback: social media marketing in today's world of business | portland seo by search marketing team pingback: what is social media & why it is a must for your businesses growth pingback: how to promote your podcast and grow your audience - www.podcastkings.net pingback: 8 things you need to know if you run your own business | promo.com blog pingback: is social media necessary for a small business? | on point marketing leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website report this ad subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad coronavirus biz advice zoho launches remotely, a remote collaboration and productivity platform view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit