content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip by jodi harris published march 18, 2020 how to create visual content that’s worth a thousand shares take a fresh look at how your photos, videos, and graphics do the talking for your brand. here are some of our top visual content tips – with examples – to help you find or reinforce your signature visual style. continue reading → by dennis shiao published march 4, 2020 how to do visual content with low, medium, and high budgets you don’t need the deepest pockets to create strong visual content. follow this advice that covers three budget levels from low to high – $5,000 or less; $5,001 to $29,999, and $30,000-plus. continue reading → by cathy mcphillips published february 26, 2020 most agencies bet on this distribution model [new research] how do agencies use content marketing to promote their own businesses? read on to learn. discover how many use paid distribution models, which social media platform brings in the most business, and much more. continue reading → by carina rampelt published february 11, 2020 the what, why, and how of tiktok for b2c brands [examples] the social media app of gen z, tiktok is a surprisingly friendly place for b2c marketers. just look at e.l.f. cosmetics’ campaign that sparked over 3 million videos on the platform. learn the what, why, and how of tiktok. continue reading → by jodi harris published february 3, 2020 how to create a strategic social media plan [template] not sure if you are distributing your content on the right social channels or in the right way to drive action? here’s how to build a social media marketing plan to put all the essential decision-making info right at your fingertips. continue reading → by thibaud clement published january 22, 2020 3 creative ways to promote content with carousel ads want to improve your content promotion mix? add in facebook and instagram carousel ads. read on for three creative ways (and examples) to attract viewers to your content through social ads. continue reading → by erika heald published january 8, 2020 how to write social media guidelines that help employees and protect your brand enterprises can reap the benefits of thousands of employees as eager brand ambassadors. but doing it successfully requires social media guidelines to help them thrive and protect your brand at the same time. continue reading → by dennis shiao published january 1, 2020 7 helpful social media marketing tips for 2020 in the new year, how can your business and personal brands get the most out of social media? here are seven helpful takeaways culled from cmi’s 2019 posts to give you a head start on 2020 social media marketing. continue reading → by andre oentoro published december 18, 2019 9 must-use apps to spice up your instagram one-third of the most-viewed instagram stories are told by businesses. how can your brand up its game on the visual social media platform? these nine instagram-focused photo, video, and content management tools may help. continue reading → by ann gynn published november 26, 2019 how 7 brands are using text and social messaging apps for content marketing you can’t overestimate the power of a positive one-to-one relationship with your audience. that’s why discerning content marketers evaluate the power of direct messaging via text and social media. find out what seven brands learned. continue reading → 1 2 3 … 9 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree