skip to content (press enter) home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers rahul yadav digital marketing consultant & seo expert delhi, india home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers social media and internet marketing consulting need help promoting your business with social media? you’ve come to the right place. my team of social media experts and i can help your company : generate more leads and sales via social media develop a custom social media marketing strategy design your social network accounts create and post to your social networks daily run world-class social media contests and sweepstakes manage social media advertising campaigns whether you’re looking for help getting started in facebook and twitter, want to increase your social media buzz or presence, promote a product or special on groupon or foursquare, or simply speak to a social media consultant about your ideas or questions about promoting your business, products or services using social media, contact us today for a free phone consultation. located in delhi india and serving clients in the canada, usa, uk, australia, asia and around the world, rahul yadav is a social media consultant and owner of rahul digital marketing a full service social media marketing company. social media marketing & advertising consulting services be fearless. get social. enquire now 》 5 reasons why social media is necessary for your business social media became an essential part of everyone’s life. it is a fact that the social media is mostly used for the promotion of the business or in simple words it is a promotional tool. but don’t forget that it is also applying for the entertainment purposes. however social media engagement is the relationship of the business or brand with its customers. the things which everyone should know about social media marketing are explaining here. boost sales cycles business growth is measurable through the business’s profit, and profit is directly proportional to the sales of the product of the business. you can boost the profit of your business through the help of the social media. just post the offers which you want to offer to your customers. not only this also displays the packages which you want to originate in the coming season or post all the products which you are going to launch shortly. if you arrange some event, must share event updates with every customer. through this tactic, you get more latent customers, and ultimately your sales cycle will boost. establishing relationship with customers social media engagement is all about the customers and owner relationship, and no one can ignore this reality that the business is nothing without its potential customers. business progression is directly dependent on customers trust and loyalty. if you are planning your business setup in india or in any city of the world you must use social media effectively to build a strong relation with your customers. so achievement of customers trust is possible through the social media profiles or accounts. you have to give replies to customer’s posts or have to provide answers to their questions to build the relationship with them. don’t ignore your customers. if you think, you have not enough time to give replies to your customer’s individually so you can use automation software. automation software can provide instant responses to customer’s queries. show things that your customers want to see social media is a fruitful business’s tool if you consider customers choice. to get the understanding of the customer’s choice is not an easy task. you have to make efforts to gain the clearer understanding of the customer’s interest. you can conduct online surveys through the social media platforms and post the different type of multiple-choice questions. not only this, but you can also visit the customer’s profile to get some idea. when you get an idea about the choice of the targeted customers, post things on your page or profile accordingly. it is a general observation that the visual content is more appealing as compared to the text so try to post beautiful images with the plaintexts as images are self-explanatory. keep an eye on co-competitors activities business owners adopt different types of tactics to get the mind-blowing results. everyone wants to give best to its customers, and in the race of customer’s satisfaction, one has to observe the strategies of its competitors in the market. social media platforms are the best platforms through which one business owner can keep his eye on the work of its competitors and simultaneously can change its strategies quickly. grab attention of the social visitors through the blog post social media is capable of reaching to your new customers, but it’s not the magic as it needs some time to get results. you have to post updated blogs on your social profile frequently. informational blogs work a lot more to grab the attention of the number of visitors and to get the potential customers at the end. keep in mind that the content of the blogs is the king so don’t compromise with it and give your best. social media engagement is becoming more intense with the passage of time as it is the era of technology. it is evident that everything has some pros and cons, same the case exists with the social media as it has the positive impact as well as negative impact. with the social media, many entrepreneurs are getting best results, but some are just doing wastage of time. some waste their time because they use social media without proper guideline and planning. to win the race of business, you have to use social media with the intelligence of your mind. search for: “i’m an indiblogger!” hi, i am rahul yadav a digital marketing consultant and seo expert in delhi, india. i work with new startups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and bloggers. i am a professional blogger and i write, speak, and consult mostly about how to blog tips, seo news, products reviews, inbound marketing, social media marketing etc. related posts: 5 proven customer retention strategies for your… 10 reasons why your business should use social media 11 common digital advertising objectives you need to know an interview with linkedin expert melonie dodaro of… 14 top sales techniques to spice up your sales top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi 15 best twitter marketing tools for social media marketers the importance of seo in internet marketing how to use facebook to promote your brand and drive sales 7 simple ecommerce conversion rate optimization tactics 4 social media strategies to promote lodgings lead generation: key tips on boost your leads for… 6 communication tools that every business should have top 5 digital marketing agencies in hyderabad how digital marketing companies make money recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing legal and technical hurdles surrounding online casino in india top 10 digital marketing training institute in ahmedabad top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi top 10 best tech websites you should bookmark right now top 5 digital marketing institutes and training course in ambala 9 ways to really boost your ecommerce project about us rahul yadav is a digital marketing consultant from new delhi, india. he is also an author, speaker and trainer in the field of digital marketing. he trains students, professionals and business men on digital marketing. related posts: 5 proven customer retention strategies for your… 10 reasons why your business should use social media 11 common digital advertising objectives you need to know an interview with linkedin expert melonie dodaro of… recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing categories categories select category adsense affiliate marketing ahmedabad amazon analysis android apps australia blogger blogging business chennai content coupon courses deals delhi digital marketing dubai ecommerce email marketing facebook fashion food guest blogging guest post guwahati haryana health hosting hyderabad ias iit instagram interview interview questions jaipur kerala keyword research laptop link building linkedin make money malaysia mumbai new zealand noida orm paid post pakistan patna pinterest podcast ppc pune seo singapore snapchat social media sri lanka startup tool travel twitter uncategorized updated vlogging web design wordpress youtube partner with rahul digital copyright © 2020 rahul yadav. creative business | developed by rara theme. powered by wordpress.