products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media social media marketing social media marketing social media management in times of crisis these are times of fast-changing news around covid-19. so what does social media management look like over the coming weeks and months? we’re still figuring... read more analytics introducing best time to post: personalized recommendations to increase your reach on instagram search “best time to post on instagram” and you’ll find countless articles telling you when to post according to studies of a few million instagram... read more analytics introducing buffer + shopify: simplified shopify reporting in your buffer dashboard one thing we’ve heard over and over is that logging into social media analytics tools can leave marketers feeling a little lost. sure you can... read more instagram stories the best instagram stories of 2019 instagram stories was one of the most dynamic social media channels in 2019. so much happened with stories — from new developments with the product... read more social media marketing the keys to epic engagement on social media join us as we run through some of the reasons why investing in engagement makes business sense, and how to master engagement on instagram, facebook,... read more social media marketing instagram stories: how 18 brands and influencers are using it (and you can too!) 10 billion. that’s the number of videos people watch on snapchat every day. the same potential consumption (maybe more) exists for instagram stories — quick... read more instagram stories how to schedule instagram stories since the feature was introduced in august 2016, stories have completely changed how people, and brands use instagram. more than 500 million instagrammers use stories... read more the science of social media can you make a great six-second ad? here’s what we learned from the best we’ve taken youtube’s best practices plus the list of the best six-second ads to find all the secret ingredients behind short and snappy video marketing. read more case studies 5 marketing lessons from daily harvest’s journey to shipping one million smoothies launched in 2015, daily harvest has become one of the fastest growing direct-to-consumer food brands in the world. read more online marketing a crash course in microcopy: how to craft the perfect words for social media captions copywriting tips and techniques for social media managers to write really good microcopy in social media captions, tweets, stories, and more. read more social media marketing reddit marketing strategies for those who don’t have time for reddit marketing reddit marketing strategies for every marketer. find out how to use reddit for customer research, audience engagement, traffic, and more. read more posts navigation 1 2 3 … 60 next about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it