statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr internet› social media & user-generated content social networking in china - statistics & facts overview key figures statistics published by lai lin thomala, nov 7, 2019 china is the world's largest social network market. its market composition varies considerably from the rest of the world. due to the great firewall of china, as the chinese government’s internet censorship project is commonly called, facebook, twitter and youtube, the leading international social-media players, are all blocked in china. however, china’s social media landscape is not incomparable with its western counterparts. tencent’s qzone, one of the most famous social network sites across the world, is a combination of facebook and tumblr, where users share photos, leave messages and blog. micro blogging services tencent weibo and sina weibo ranked second and third in the most valuable social network brand ranking after qzone in 2013. the initial idea of micro blogging is similar to twitter. users are allowed to use 140 to two thousand chinese characters in one post. in 2018, a majority of sina’s revenue was generated from the advertising and marketing from its micro blogging platform. owing to the growing microblog users and higher user engagement, advertising on microblog platforms is expected to be more important. another commonly used social media form in china is instant messaging. as of 2019, the almost 15 percent of the mobile screen time was spent on instant messaging apps. at that time, the most popular instant messengers in china were wechat and qq. both are operated by the chinese tech giant tencent. in addition to their already existing aptitude for mobile devices, recent instant messenger versions have integrated vital social network properties such as sharing pictures, raising once more the future of social media platforms. this text provides general information. statista assumes no liability for the information given being complete or correct. due to varying update cycles, statistics can display more up-to-date data than referenced in the text. read more interesting statistics in the following 4 chapters, you will quickly find the 23 most important statistics relating to "social networks in china". statistics on the topic general overview social networks microblogging instant messaging projected number of social network users in china by 2023 800m share of chinese population who are using social networks 48% ad revenue generated from social media 50.96 bn yuan general overview number of global social network users 2010-2021 social network users in selected countries in 2018 and 2023 global social networks ranked by number of users 2020 monthly active social media users in apac countries 2019 active mobile social media users in apac countries 2017-2019 social media ad revenue in china 2012-2021 show all statistics (6) social networks number of social media users in china 2017-2023 penetration rate of social media in china 2013-2019 china: most popular social networks 2018 monthly active users of momo in china 2012-2019 time spent with internet media in china q2-q3 2018, by type top-tier kol's impressions per post in china by channel 2019 show all statistics (6) microblogging user numbers of microblogs in china 2010-2018 penetration rate of microblog users china 2010-2018 number of monthly active users of sina weibo china q4 2017-q3 2019 share of weibo users among china's online population 2010-2018 china: share of microblog sina weibo users 2018, by age group key figures of sina weibo microblog leading user activities in china 2018 show all statistics (6) instant messaging china: number of instant messaging users 2012-2018 number of monthly active tencent qq im user accounts in china 2010-2018 number of active wechat messenger accounts q2 2011-q3 2019 wechat: distribution of users 2019, by age average amount of time spent on wechat per day as of march 2019 show all statistics (5) subscribe dossier on the topic all important statistics are prepared by our experts – available for direct download as ppt & pdf! go to report top seller important key figures the most important key figures provide you with a compact summary of the topic of "social networks in china" and take you straight to the corresponding statistics. leading social networks the second most popular social network in china baidu tieba detailed statistics china: most popular social networks 2018 sina weibo's daily active users in china 216 mn detailed statistics sina weibo's daily active user number in china q4 2017-q3 2019 share of female users in wechat 42.8% detailed statistics wechat: distribution of account users 2019, by gender microblogs number of microblog users in china 350.57 mn detailed statistics user numbers of microblogs in china 2010-2018 share of weibo users among china's online population 42.3% detailed statistics share of weibo users among china's online population 2010-2018 number of words published on microblogs every day in china 130 mn detailed statistics key figures of sina weibo microblog leading user activities in china 2018 interesting statista reports more interesting topics related topics twitter china e-commerce in china online video usage in the united states internet usage worldwide internet usage in china infographics on the topic tencent vs facebook other studies on the topic social networks in china any more questions? any more questions? get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! do you still have questions? feel free to contact us anytime using our contact form or visit our faq page. contact kyle gordon group director get in contact now yes, let me download! ...and make my research life easier. we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr