content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search social media consulting we make social media work for companies and organizations, social media can be rough sledding right about now. changes to social network algorithms have largely punished organic posts from non-individuals, rendering obsolete most social media strategies. but that doesn’t mean you cannot succeed with organic and paid social media. you can. you just need a new strategy that takes into account the current realities of how social works. we can help. we’ll work with you to determine what your customers really want, where you’re exceeding those expectations, and where you may be falling short. we’ll evaluate your social media versus your key competitors (if you like) and determine where you can create social that informs and delights your customers and prospects. we’ll also work to make sure you’re measuring organic and paid social media optimally, whether you’re doing so from a b2c or b2b perspective. we use our decades of experience, proprietary audience insights, competitive analysis, advanced metrics system, and detailed research to craft social media marketing programs that drive meaningful business results. our clients and case studies speak for themselves. how we work while we’ll tailor to your organization’s circumstances, many of our assignments look like this: deep research. we look at your business/organization, category, competition, current content and social media, customer insights, analytics, and more. qualitative analysis. 1:1 conversations with key stakeholders on your team, as well as interviews with prototypical customers and prospects quantitative analysis. detailed surveys of current customers, prospects, and lapsed customers to study key perspectives, attitudes, content and social media consumption patterns, and more. strategy summary. assessment and overview of social media current and future states, including themes, messaging, calls to action, audiences, social media “shows” and channel alignments, metrics and measurement, and amplification. this deliverable also includes an unveiling of the key strategic transformations necessary to meet business objectives for content. this is the “what” of our work. operations playbooks. highly detailed documents (typically 2-4) that specify precisely what needs to be done to consistently and accurately put into practice the new/improved organic and paid social media program described in the strategy summary. this is the “how” of our work. ongoing counsel. lightweight weekly support to answer questions, refine playbooks, connect dots, and pitch in where needed. this is like personal training for social media optimization. in addition to our social media consulting programs, we also create content marketing for our clients, and provide social media training via workshops, keynote presentations, and boot camps. speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept