skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: social snapchat takeovers with tripit if you’ve been following me on snapchat, then you may have realized i’ve been doing several “snapchat takeovers” for my good friends at tripit (@tripitcom). if you’ve never heard of tripit, it’s an all-in-one mobile application that organizes your travel plans in convenient place. i’m talking about all of those flight confirmations, hotel reservations, travel bookings, etc. they […] read more… posted in socialleave a comment understanding snapchat marketing (insider tips) this blog post is an up-to-date guide for understanding the business aspect of snapchat, and to learn how to build a following to market yourself. i launched an original snapchat marketing guide back in april 2015, but as you can imagine, that content has quickly become outdated. this post is an updated version of the old one. […] read more… posted in socialleave a comment how i got 50k followers on snapchat (8 tips) over the last year, snapchat has emerged as my #1 most engaging social media network to connect with my audience around the world. it’s a ground-breaking platform, which has allowed me to show a behind-the-scenes perspective of my life as a full-time and enable my followers to get to know me on a personal level. […] read more… posted in social4 comments categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.