products plan, collaborate, and publish thumb-stopping content learn more respond to social conversations from a shared team inbox learn more analyze social media performance and create gorgeous reports learn more pricing resources about customers try buffer for businesslog in products publish reply analyze pricing resources about customerstry buffer for business log in your full stack of brand building tools monthly billing annual billing save up to 20% choose a plan pro $15/mo billed monthly ideal for getting started 8 social accounts 100 scheduled posts 1 userstart a free 14-day trial or see more features premium $65/mo billed monthly ideal for growing brands 8 social accounts 2,000 scheduled posts 2 usersstart a free 14-day trial or see more features business $99/mo billed monthly ideal for larger teams 25 social accounts 2,000 scheduled posts 6 usersstart a free 14-day trial or see more features at the end of your trial, you may downgrade to our basic free plan: 3 social accounts, 10 scheduled posts, 1 user. "buffer has made sharing our story and building our brand on social media so much easier." luis cancel, managing editor compare plans, side by side easy to switch at any time the basics pro premium business the basics start trial start trial start trial monthly price $15 $65 $99 social accounts the number of social accounts/pages you can connect to buffer. for example: 5 twitter profiles, 3 facebook pages, and 2 instagram accounts would count as 10 social accounts in total. 8 8 25 scheduled posts per social account the number of posts you can store in your queue at any one time (per social account). there is no daily, monthly, or yearly limit. 100 2,000 2,000 users the number of users who can access and contribute content to your buffer account. 1 2 6 social networks instagram personal accounts and business profiles. facebook pages and groups. twitter profiles. linkedin profiles and pages. pinterest boards (only on our pro and business plans). planning and scheduling directly schedule posts scheduling your social media posts couldn't be easier! our vision is for users to have a unique voice on social media, and to be able increase engagement and reach of posts by targeting the message to the right audience on each social network. create a posting schedule each of your connected social accounts will have its own posting schedule. each time that you configure here becomes a time slot in your queue. then, when you're scheduling posts, you don't need to think about the date and time each one should be published, all you need to do is add them to your queue and they'll automatically be placed into the next available time slots and published as part of your usual posting flow. tailored posts for each social network using the tailored posts composer, you're able to customize your post for each social network that you're sharing to. calendar view this allows you to see both your published posts and your scheduled posts. you can toggle between a week or month view, see engagement metrics on posts that have already been shared, move posts around, edit posts, and add new posts. custom video thumbnails choose a custom thumbnail and title for your videos on instagram, facebook, twitter, linkedin, pinterest. thumbnails are generated at 15 second intervals of the video. by default, the first frame of the video (0 seconds) will be used as the thumbnail. instagram first comment when creating your instagram posts, you can now create the first comment for your post, which is great for hashtags and other less relevant information you may not want to show initially with your post and caption. instagram tagging when scheduling single image posts to instagram, you can now add your location and user tags in buffer instead of manually adding tags after the post is published. instagram hashtag manager hashtag manager makes it easy to create and save groups of hashtags to use in your instagram first comments. experiment with different variations. reuse your top performing groups. build a library of options. hashtag manager helps you get more reach for every post. — instagram stories prepare and schedule your stories on web or mobile. — instagram shop grid shop grid allows you to add links to each of your posts, which will then be displayed on a unique page that can be used as the permanent link in your bio. — create and manage draft posts all users, regardless of permissions, are able to create posts within drafts. for account owners and users with full posting access, drafts can be moved to the queue at any time. for users with approval required access, approval will need to be requested before the post is moved to the queue. — posts report see the posts you have published with some basic information about when they were published and how they have performed. 30-day history full history full history team management invite additional users invite additional users to contribute to the content that is shared on social media. all users will be able to create and share draft posts, and you can define which users will need to have their posts approved. — assign access and permissions manage which social accounts each user should be invited to and whether their posts require approval before publishing. — approval workflow posts added by users with 'approval required access' will automatically be added to the drafts area. from there, they can request approval on their post, which will move it over to the awaiting approval area. both the account owner and users with full posting access will be able to review and approve such posts. — integrations and apps browser extension the buffer browser extension makes sharing content even quicker and easier! it allows you to open the composer on any web page and add posts right to your queue, without having to go back to your dashboard. ios and android apps publish is available on ios and android, allowing you to plan, collaborate, and publish on-the-go. 60+ third-party integrations use buffer with your favorite apps like zapier, ifttt, quuu, pocket, feedly, and more. two factor authentication enabling two factor authentication adds an extra layer of security to your buffer publish account. whenever you log into your account, after entering your username and password, you'll be asked for a second authentication code. two factor authentication codes can be generated either via text message (sms) or google authenticator (available on ios and android). support & community self-service knowledge base access to our faq where you’ll find how-to guides, most popular questions and video tutorials. social media support fast support on social media via twitter and facebook. email support fast and helpful support via email. we love lending a hand with social media advice, sharing buffer tips and tricks, and we’re always up to chat through a technical challenge! being a buffer customer should feel like having a whole team of people cheering for you. buffer community as a buffer user, you'll have access to the buffer community: a knowledge-base of marketing advice, strategies and resources. we built this online space to offer you learning experiences that help you build your brands, keep up with marketing trends, and build meaningful connections with other awesome marketers from around the world. pro premium business start trial start trial start trialstart trial need more? we have additional options if you need more social accounts, users, training, or a dedicated account manager. medium business large business enterprise users 11 26 26+ social accounts 50 150 150+ scheduled posts per social account 2,000 2,000 2,000+ onboarding training — dedicated account manager — monthly price $199 $399 contact us start 14-day free trial start 14-day free trial contact us learn more about our full stack of brand building tools we’ve built a full stack of social media tools to help modern brands grow their awareness, engagement, and sales. measure the performance of your social media content & create gorgeous reports. learn more reply to social conversations & provide support from one shared team inbox. learn more join 75,000+ growing businesses that use buffer to build their brandsget started no credit card required 14-day free trial cancel anytime copyright ©2020 buffer|privacy|terms|security products publish reply analyze pricing company about us customers community request a feature nonprofits careers press support help center webinars tweet @ us status ios app android app reply ios app free resources browser extension resource center content library stories creator podcast transparency culture blog salary calculator transparent salaries revenue dashboard diversity dashboard product roadmap hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it