u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition social justice the coronavirus is making mental health in ice detention even worse a suicide in ice custody should highlight how immigrants feel “scared and worried” about an outbreak, according to advocates. by angelina chapin asian people are being targeted by racist attacks. here's how you can be an ally. the coronavirus pandemic is fueling racism that often unfolds right in front of bystanders. by josephine harvey the only way to protect elderly prisoners from coronavirus is to release them with an aging prison population in the midst of a global health crisis, it's time to prioritize early release for sick and elderly prisoners. by jenavieve hatch menopause: the taboo topic we need to talk about between sexism and ageism, menopause gives rise to many stereotypes that have consequences for women's private and professional lives. by marine le breton, huffpost france trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad an outbreak of coronavirus along the border could be deadly and devastating the disease would "spread like wildfire" among the tens of thousands of immigrants stuck in tent camps and shelters along the border, one doctor said. by angelina chapin amy klobuchar calls for independent investigation into myon burrell case the senator urged hennepin county's top prosecutor to call for an independent review of the case klobuchar handled that imprisoned a black teen for life. by sanjana karanth newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. judge rules ken cuccinelli unlawfully appointed head of immigration agency any policies cuccinelli put in place are now void, according to a court ruling. by hayley miller a mother was burned with acid in mexico. the u.s. government still sent her back. lawyers hope a new federal court injunction will prevent her from being returned to mexico a third time. by angelina chapin once put in concentration camps, japanese americans rally for detained immigrants homer yasui, 95, has a message: "stand up, do something! be counted. help us.” by mari hayman newly released footage of 6-year-old girl’s arrest newly released footage shows a 6-year-old student getting arrested and put in a police car. by huffpost video the weinstein verdict is a complicated win for survivors this verdict is empowering but won't fix a broken system. by angelina chapin anderson cooper calls 'bulls**t' on rod blagojevich during live interview the former illinois governor said he was a political prisoner and demanded that cooper help him reform the criminal justice system. the cnn host shut him down. by carla herreria russo mick mulvaney: u.s. is ‘desperate’ for immigrants acting white house chief of staff mick mulvaney contradicted president donald trump when he told a crowd that the u.s. is “desperate” for immigrants to propel its economic growth. by huffpost video mick mulvaney says u.s. is 'desperate' for immigrants for economic growth: report color us surprised. by mary papenfuss trump’s pardon problem neal katyal, a former justice department official, issued a warning to president donald trump after he doled out pardons and commuted sentences for friends and allies. by huffpost video trump’s justifies his pardoning blitz president donald trump spoke to reporters to explain a wave of commutations and pardons for convicted fraudsters, amongst others. by huffpost video stephen miller's uncle donates to pro-refugee group as 'wedding gift' to nephew the trump administration's immigration policies, spearheaded by miller, are "a danger to everybody in our country," david glosser told huffpost. by hayley miller 'camo ladders' now being used to scale border wall cheap rebar ladders that hook over barriers blend in with the steel rods, say border agents. by mary papenfuss gop group targets trump with roger stone-bashing ad “the criminal justice system shouldn’t depend on being friends with the president," republicans for the rule of law says in its new spot. by lee moran racist bloomberg audio unearthed in a blow to michael bloomberg’s presidential campaign, audio has resurfaced of the former new york mayor claiming that most murderers are young men of color. by huffpost video newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.