video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map social media original content why your brand should double down on owned media here are three steps you can take today to maximize your owned media assets. steven li | 7 min read 4 actionable steps for multi-channel marketing 'be where your customers are' is a marketing watchword, and rightly so. but with so many channels, it can seem daunting. so here are some strategies to help you out. pritom das | 5 min read how to repurpose marketing content for your small business essential tips for all busy smb owners. syed balkhi | 5 min read why you actually should share your instagram post on your instagram story some people think sharing an instagram post on your instagram story is redundant. here's why they're wrong. haley hoffman smith | 6 min read pick a marketing model that lets you pay for results, not potential how affiliate marketing can help you find consistent return on investment. john rampton | 4 min read more from this topic news and trends tiktok censored 'ugly, poor or disabled' people to attract more users documents reveal how the popular app also censorsed content that would harm china's reputation or 'defames' civil servants, politicians, or religious leaders. adam smith | 3 min read marketing how to work more microcontent into your marketing efforts if your brand is using social media, then you are already producing microcontent, but there are ways to integrate it more effectively. albizu garcia | 5 min read marketing the 4 key steps to creating your first ad campaign how to ensure you're setting yourself up for success. imran tariq | 4 min read news and trends 5 ways to deal with online bullying tips on fighting back against body-shamers from a successful author and entrepreneur. simonetta lein | 5 min read online marketing why you should be buying facebook ads now take advantage of lower costs and seize market share. nick wolny | 6 min read social media marketing why tiktok will never die here's how companies and brands can create viral marketing content on platforms like tiktok. david meltzer | 1 min read social media twitter adds 'manipulated media' label to white house biden video dan scavino, director of social media at the white house, tweeted a video of joe biden saying 'we can only re-elect donald trump.' but the video cut off what biden said next, which significantly changed its meaning. matthew humphries | 2 min read news and trends google, facebook, amazon ask employees to stay away from hqs as they bunker down against coronavirus tech giants including facebook, amazon, and google have asked employees to work from home amid the novel coronavirus outbreak. isobel asher hamilton | 5 min read twitter twitter experiments with tweets that expire (it's basically instagram stories) twitter is testing out the new feature in the hopes it'll get users to share more on the social media platform. however, the expiring tweets will only be viewable when a user clicks on your avatar. michael kan | 2 min read crisis management who joins tiktok to fight coronavirus misinformation it's going where the gossip is. jon fingas | 2 min read harness the power of all the major platforms to find and sell to new customers. 1 2 3 4 ... 229 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account