menu top middle bottom become a member in scotland? close menu about us history organic principles ceo, directors and trustees small steps to save our planet annual general meeting annual review and finances policies and procedures what we do better food for all our supporters our strategy to 2020 support us saving the earth starts from the ground up become a member of the soil association donate gift membership volunteer trusts and foundations philanthropy company giving choose our partners leave a gift in your will fundraise upcoming events act on climate change organic living what is organic? why choose organic? buy organic organic recipes organic beauty & wellbeing fashion & textiles organic heroes 30 ways to join the organic movement our campaigns government priorities agroforestry not in our bread out to lunch save our soil ban neonics stop genetic modification our standards read our organic standards what are organic standards? how are organic standards set organic standards review global organic textile standard consultation certification who we are apply for certification organic market research and data beauty & wellbeing farming fashion & textiles food & drink foodservice forestry find a licensee farmers & growers farming news technical information farming events organic market information supporting farmers and growers innovative farming meet the producer support team soil association farmer and grower board farm walks podcast the land trust looking for land what is the land trust? leaving land to the trust history of the land trust frequently asked questions how it works our farms our trustees our work in scotland scotland news scotland farming news food for life scotland scotland farming programmes organic our policy work contact the scotland office work with us press centre policy reports contact news blogs responding to coronavirus member login in scotland? we are open for business despite coronavirus the health of our staff and the people, businesses and communities we work with is our top priority, though we ask for your patience if you contact us in this difficult time. more on how we’re responding the organic market is growing the organic market report reveals that organic has reached its highest sales ever at £2.45bn. find out what's driving this demand. download the report help create a pesticide-free future let's make 2020 the year we secure a pesticide-free farming future for uk. donate now thanks for supporting us! with your help, we can change the future of food and farming good food – let’s make it the easy choice for everyone, produced in a way that protects our natural world and allows every farm animal to feel the sun on their backs. we’re a charity and organic certification body and we need your help. certification organic living donate latest news organic living support the charity farming & growing certification latest news news 26 march 2020covid 19, audits and certification news 18 march 2020covid 19, update for forestry certificate holders news pollinators 13 march 2020over 2,000 of you demand urgent action from government on pesticides news farming 05 march 2020celebrating women in farming on international women's day news climate change agroecology 02 march 2020open letter on the 2020 climate conference news children's food 18 february 2020powerful calls to action for children’s food from ffl conference organic living find, try & buy organic find out more what is organic? find out more beauty & wellbeing find out more why organic? find out more organic recipes find out more fashion & textiles find out more support the charity i want to become a member of the soil association i want to make a donation how do we save the earth from the ground up? farming & growing farming & growing homepage just browsing? news & events all the latest market information find out more innovative farmers find out more access technical advice and support become a producer member organic marketplace buy and sell organic certification farming find out more food & drink find out more beauty & wellbeing find out more textiles find out more organic standards find out more forestry find out more best companies award work for us we're registered with the fundraising regulator certification find out more innovative farmers find out more food for life find out more follow us on twitter soil association we’re loving the #blossomwatch posts! thanks for spreading some joy with this @nationaltrust 💚. the fleeting appear…twitter.com/i/web/status/1…9 follow us sign up for regular emails you'll receive news, offers, practical tips and other ways you can get involved such as fundraising and campaigning. you can unsubscribe at any time click here to receive our emails please make sure the above tickbox is checked. signup