home about solo travel statistics and data : 2019 – 2020 advertise media/speaking privacy policy & disclosure deals contact | solo travel awards the solo travelers choice award award categories tours specialty tours vacation packages river cruises ocean cruises solo only companies why enter? so many reasons! about the solo travel awards contact solo traveler solo travel tips, destinations, stories... the source for those who travel alone. start here | solo female travel | road trips | all articles destinations travel money deals cool & useful sign up wits & wonder travel course solo travel europe: 32+ tips you need to know solo travel destination: santorini island, greece best places to stay in london: accommodation for solo travelers best budget destinations for solo travelers: the 2020 shortlist solo travel iceland: photos by readers by tracey nesbitt enjoy these iceland photos, all contributed by members of the solo travel society and readers of solo traveler who took them while exploring the country. solo travelers: 10 reasons to read the alchemist by janice waugh are you living your dreams? are you creating your personal legend? here are 10 reasons i believe solo travelers should read the alchemist. what to do when you can’t travel by tracey nesbitt for those times when you can’t travel, and especially during the current crisis, here are 9 ways to embrace the spirit of travel from home. solo travel canada: photos by readers by tracey nesbitt enjoy these canada photos, all contributed by readers of solo traveler and members of the solo travel society from their various trips. travel and covid-19: a missive from morocco by janice waugh a fabulous trip to morocco and a return home full of questions given the circumstances around travel and covid-19. it’s a saga. how to plan a staycation for when you can’t travel by janice waugh sometimes you can’t travel. then it’s time to embrace the staycation. here are my 10 tips for how to plan a staycation and for one in toronto. solo travel south africa: photos by readers by tracey nesbitt enjoy these south africa photos, all contributed by members of the solo traveler community from their various trips around the world. 50 road trip songs: the ultimate solo playlist by tracey nesbitt with input from readers and friends, along with my own favorites, here are 50 road trip songs to add to the soundtrack of your next solo journey. 12 ways to make money as you travel: long and short-term by janice waugh not enough money to go traveling? cut your costs by earning money as you go. here are 12 ways to make money as you travel. solo travel destination: bolivia by tracey nesbitt solo travel in bolivia comes highly recommended by this solo travel society member who visited la paz, sucre, cochabamba, salar de uyuni, and tarabuco. see all recent posts... or check them out by category a solo point of view travel money how to travel alone solo travel destinations solo travel safety solo travel stories follow us… recent posts solo travel iceland: photos by readers solo travelers: 10 reasons to read the alchemist what to do when you can’t travel solo travel canada: photos by readers travel and covid-19: a missive from morocco a proud member of… results may vary (the disclaimer.) the content of solo traveler and any resources published by solo traveler are meant for entertainment and inspiration only. please note that while we have advertising clients promoting destinations, products, services, trips and tours on solo traveler and that we endeavour to only work with companies in which we have confidence, we are not responsible for the delivery or quality of their products or services. every person and every travel situation is different. your safety, satisfaction and fun traveling solo are your responsibility alone and not that of solo traveler, its publisher, editor and/or writers. please see our privacy policy here. most popular categories solo travel destinations solo female travel how to travel alone disclosure: in accordance with ftc guidelines, i disclose that i may be compensated if consumers choose to utilize links located throughout the content on this site. additionally, some posts might be sponsored to support this site. please do the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers. all opinions are my own. as seen in new york times – new tools and tours for solo travelers npr – winging it: how to travel alone. washington post – tips for solo travelers vox – women travel alone more than men. here’s why. travelweekly – doubling down on singles cnn – five joys of traveling solo washington post – tips for solo travelers armed forces radio – more people are traveling solo oprah – the summer of you: 15 tips for a super solo vacation the new daily – how to go it alone: a guide for solo travellers budget travel – read this before you travel solo contact us publisher janice: info @ solotravelerworld.com editor tracey: tracey @ solotravelerworld.com sales simon: simon@solotravelerworld.com enter your email to receive the newsletter & deals advisory copyright © 2020 · solo traveler · site by rtw labs 2125shares