skip to content marketop data marketing agency home about solutions blog contact home about solutions blog contact in-market data our behavioral data finds specifically who is showing online activity searching for your service. in-market data is not about giving you names and emails of clients so that you can contact them directly, it is about collecting data based on consumer behavior. if you understand the value of information and data, this is as good as it gets, through consumer insights and data mining you can now target your marketing ad specifically to the users looking for your service. our solution is simple, to show your marketing ad, only to the people actively searching for your product or service. 3% ready to hire you that means that advertising to all types of general people, includes the 97% of people that are not looking for your services. 25% less on advertising it allows you to slash your advertising expenses 25-75% because you no longer need to market to a wide pool of people who aren’t in market for your service. cookies we track over 15 billion data-points across the internet that monitor browser behavior of more than 275 million americans. paid ads let’s face it; it’s easy to spend a lot of money with little result to show for it if you trust your paid advertisement in the hands of rookies. at marketop, we promise a massive return on your investment. are you running paid ads on google, bing, facebook, and twitter? our paid ads professionals will make sure you get the maximum result from your advertisement by using our ai and machine learning integrations. facebook ads we’ll make every cent count on your facebook ads by reaching the right audience and guiding you to a successful campaign. google ads we’ll ensure that your google ad is attracting the right audience to your website. other paid ads we’ll help you reach the right audience on the right platform, and at the right time with paid ads. web-id what if we told you our pixel code can collect the name, email, phone number, and address of everyone who simply visits your website, even without a form fill? well it’s true. our web id allows you to build custom contact lists for increasing email subscribers, segmenting your visitors by interest type or page visits, and having access to portable data to use on a variety of marketing platforms. now you can capture and benefit from 100% of your website traffic! site traffic decryption we decrypt your traffic into the full profile of every individual. portable data portable targeting method that’s platform-agnostic. power and protection our web-id crushes powerful suppliers by putting control back in your hands. have a question for us? let’s chat! contact form email us to discuss details! team@marketop.io find us on:facebooktwitterlinkedin © 2020 marketop ❤️ nyc privacy policies terms of use useful links go to top