toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog june 18, 2018 \ lorraine \ 4 comments some resources for you (#2) last updated on: april 10th, 2019 i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… so that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i might do this from time to time, so i have titled this #2. hopefully, more awesome resources will follow! 😉 for bloggers what the heck is gdpr? (and how to make sure your blog is compliant) for freelancers 21 sites to find freelance projects and work at home jobs for writers of all kinds! 595 power words that’ll instantly make you a better writer for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to open up your blog for guest bloggers (+ find bloggers to guest post) additional resources (for success) how to succeed even when you feel like giving up free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! i want to serve you, so let me! see you in the comments! and be sure to check out – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#3) blogging, resources \ blogging, business, freelancing, writing about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 4 thoughts on “some resources for you (#2)” paras says august 23, 2018 at 2:35 pm really appreciated for these resources. well i am also planning to go for guest blogs on my business blog. hope it will work soon. paras recently posted…how to optimize your google my business listing? reply lorraine says august 27, 2018 at 5:10 am paras, good luck to you with guest posting! i’m glad you liked these resources. 🙂 reply what is the keto diet? says july 1, 2018 at 1:23 pm great resource list! thank you so much for sharing! i especially like the “how to succeed when you feel like giving up.” i have to keep telling myself that successful blogging is a marathon and not a sprint! reply lorraine says july 3, 2018 at 6:27 pm so true! blogging takes a lot of time. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy