toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog june 26, 2019 \ lorraine \ 6 comments some resources for you (#10) last updated on: june 4th, 2019 i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) – some resources for you (#7) – some resources for you (#8) – some resources for you (#9) resources for bloggers how to write catchy headlines and blog titles your readers can’t resist resources for freelancers top 25 free online courses for freelancers resources for authors all new 2019 book publicity & marketing toolkit! resources for writers of all kinds! 17 sizzling tips to becoming a hot writer resources for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to create a sales page for your first online course or product additional resources (for success) focus as an antidote for wanting to do everything free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! resources \ authors, bloggers, business, entrepreneurs, freelancers, success, writers about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 6 thoughts on “some resources for you (#10)” aadarsh roy says february 25, 2020 at 6:51 am hey lorraine reguly , great post with helpful resources, i truly like the list of several resources that you have included but the resources for bloggers,freelancers, writers of all kinds and resources for business owners will be the best for me. really helpful post and thanks for sharing. reply lorraine says march 7, 2020 at 8:35 am aadarsh, i am glad you found something helpful and relevant to you! reply alessio says december 2, 2019 at 6:18 pm thanks so much for sharing this lorraine, found some good resources. alessio recently posted…how to find wifi password on windows reply lorraine says december 3, 2019 at 4:56 am that’s wonderful, alessio! reply varun sharma says july 10, 2019 at 7:59 am thank you for sharing. reply lorraine says july 13, 2019 at 10:42 am you’re welcome! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy