kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! some people posted by jason kottke mar 20, 2020 some people feel helpless & anxious. some people are bored. some people are self-quarantined alone and are lonely. some people are realizing that after will be very different from before. some people are really enjoying this extra time with their kids and will miss it when it’s over. some people just got off their 12th double shift in a row at the hospital and can’t hug their family. some people visited their favorite restaurant for the last time and didn’t realize it. some people have died from covid-19. some people can’t stop reading the news. some people cannot afford soap. some people are learning how to bake bread. some people are working from home while simultaneously trying to homeschool their kids. some people are single parents trying to work from home while simultaneously trying to homeschool their kids. some people are living paycheck to paycheck and the next one will not arrive. some people are unfit to be president. some people left the city for their home in the country. some people can’t go to the grocery store because they’re at risk. some people lost their jobs. some people can’t sleep. some people are watching free opera online. some people have been quarantined for weeks. some people can’t work remotely. some people have contracted covid-19 and don’t know it yet. some people can’t concentrate on their work because of anxiety. some people can’t afford their rent next month. some people are still gathering in large groups. some people are keeping the rest of us alive at significant personal risk. some people didn’t buy enough hand sanitizer. some people bought too much hand sanitizer. some people are missing their therapist. some people can’t go to work but are still being paid by their employers. for now. some people are mainly concerned about what to watch next on netflix. some people are volunteering. some people are going to lose their business. some people are realizing that teachers are amazing. some people are ordering takeout from local restaurants. some people would really just like a hug. some people can’t convince their elderly parents to take this seriously. some people are worried about their 401k. some people have never had a 401k. some people will face increased abuse at home. some people are going to get sick or injured and will have a harder time getting medical care. some people can’t buy the food they need because the wic-eligible stuff is sold out. some people won’t stop partying. some people lost their childcare. some people are doing everything they can to remain calm and hopeful and it’s not working. some people are watching outbreak & contagion and playing pandemic. some people don’t know what they’re going to do. some people are overwhelmed with advice on how to work from home. some people are drinking or eating too much. some people are thinking about after. some people are upset because they can’t travel. some people are horny. some people are planning for a larger garden this year. some people won’t see their families for months. some people are logging off to stay grounded. some people can’t see the light at the end of the tunnel. some people will realize they need to split with their partner. some people are singing imagine. some people aren’t on this list. these are all based on the experiences of real people drawn from news stories, social media, and friends. take heart: you are not the only person experiencing what you are going through. but be mindful: not everyone is having the same experience you are. ultimately though, we are all in this together. more about... covid-19 ads via carbon kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives