toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog may 19, 2018 \ lorraine \ 12 comments some resources for you (#1) last updated on: july 21st, 2018 i’m too lazy too busy to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… so that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am going to do this from time to time, so i have titled this #1. be sure to check out: – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) for bloggers social media tools: the complete list (2018 update) for freelancers the complete guide to getting started freelance writing from scratch for writers of all kinds! 50 fantastic ways to make your writing remarkable for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) 50+ free online tools for startups additional resources (for success) 12 secrets of people who are more successful than you free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! i want to serve you, so let me! see you in the comments! resources \ blogging, business, entrepreneurs, freelancing, resources, writing about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 12 thoughts on “some resources for you (#1)” pedro says july 3, 2019 at 7:26 am hi lorraine, first of all, happy to emeet you 🙂 you’ve got a great blog, and this collection of resources is simply epic!!! in fact, it should be called the ultimate collection of blogging resources! thank you for taking the time to share. please keep blogging…we need you in blogosphere off to share 🙂 best regards, pedro reply lorraine says july 13, 2019 at 10:49 am pedro, it’s great to hear from one of my readers! it’s nice to meet you, too. thanks for sharing my post! reply astha says june 17, 2018 at 5:33 am hi lorraine really good content writing very helpfull for blog but give me more suggestion start own blog kindly more information and read your all blog and waiting for a new blog reply lorraine says june 17, 2018 at 11:53 pm please tell me what kind of information you need. i’ll do what i can to help! reply moonmax says june 15, 2018 at 3:54 am can you share more? reply lorraine says june 17, 2018 at 11:55 pm what kind of things do you need information about? reply moss clement says may 24, 2018 at 6:54 am hi lorraine, you got it all covered. from bloggers to freelance writers and business owners – big and small. this is epic! a must-read for everyone. i just schedule it for posting. thanks so much for sharing. reply lorraine says may 24, 2018 at 1:32 pm thanks, moss! 🙂 reply praveen verma says may 21, 2018 at 2:47 am hello lorraine, such a nice and informative post. i like the ways that you have categorized all these resources in one place. i have visited all these sites one by one and learned a lot. you did a great job by writing this post. i have bookmarked this post for future use. thanks yo so much for sharing. have a great day ahead and take care. praveen verma praveen verma recently posted…13 app marketing ideas you haven’t thought of reply lorraine says june 18, 2018 at 12:02 am praveen, i’m glad you liked this collection of resources! reply ryan biddulph says may 20, 2018 at 4:57 am cool lorraine! so happy to rt through triberr. good to see you are busy as a bee on the consulting side of things.i definitely look forward to seeing you posting down the road too. thanks for sharing 🙂 ryan reply lorraine says june 18, 2018 at 12:03 am ryan, it has been a rough few weeks, healthwise, for me, but i am doing what i can! thanks for sharing (as always!) and for your comment, too! <3 reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy