toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog january 16, 2019 \ lorraine \ 4 comments some resources for you (#5) last updated on: april 10th, 2019 i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) for bloggers how to write a blog post – the ultimate guide for freelancers how to cold-pitch freelance writing clients — this one is from leaving work behind and it outlines the three main steps to cold-pitching. for authors how to market a book using facebook for writers of all kinds! 25 writing tips from famous writers for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to achieve entrepreneurial excellence – 3 ways additional resources (for success) how to achieve a good work-life balance (+ a free workbook/planner) free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! resources \ authors, bloggers, business, entrepreneurs, freelancers, success, writers about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 4 thoughts on “some resources for you (#5)” matthew says april 2, 2019 at 6:28 am i like this “resources series”, the more information for us bloggers the better. what i personally want to improve is my writing skills, things like how to mock up an article, how to structure it etc. it seems writing is still an art. thanks lorraine! matthew recently posted…4 websites mistakes you must avoid reply lorraine says april 10, 2019 at 12:43 am matthew, i’m so glad you like this series! thank you for telling me. i love hearing from people who appreciate my efforts! writing is definitely an art. there are tons of posts on this site about writing. just use the search function and input writing and you will get a ton of results. alternatively, you could check out the resource kit page and look at the categories listed there. and if you need a mentor, you can also hire me to coach you. reply kevin leo smith says january 16, 2019 at 11:11 pm this rabbit hole kept going deeper and deeper, i am still data mining now! i know this must have taken you some time for you to put together, you are truly a dedicated woman to helping people become their best version! thank you lorraine, you are a rockstar! best wishes! reply lorraine says january 23, 2019 at 1:58 am thanks, kevin. i appreciate your compliments. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy