toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog june 4, 2019 \ lorraine \ 4 comments some resources for you (#7) last updated on: june 4th, 2019 i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) – some resources for you (#3) – some resources for you (#4) – some resources for you (#5) – some resources for you (#6) for bloggers how to write a blog post people actually want to read for freelancers how to budget your cash flow as a freelancer for authors and writers celebrating your accomplishments as a writer and an author for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) 4 key challenges all solopreneurs face and how to overcome them additional resources (for success) how to stay motivated even when things aren’t going your way free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy, and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! resources \ authors, bloggers, business, entrepreneurs, freelancers, success, writers about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 4 thoughts on “some resources for you (#7)” jim says february 27, 2020 at 7:33 pm thank you very much, lorraine. i just wish i had discovered your blog earlier. it could have meant a lot of good to me. all these unending resources … reply lorraine says march 7, 2020 at 8:32 am jim, be happy you found it now. 😉 reply roslia santamaria says september 20, 2019 at 3:32 am thank you so much for sharing and looking forward to learning more from this blog. reply lorraine says september 25, 2019 at 3:11 pm my pleasure! it’s great to have you here! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy