toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog july 21, 2018 \ lorraine \ 10 comments some resources for you (#3) last updated on: april 10th, 2019 i’m too lazy too busy editing to put a lot of time into blogging these days. but you are still on my mind… and that is why i have compiled this list of resources for you. 🙂 i am doing this from time to time. i’ve already published: – some resources for you (#1) – some resources for you (#2) for bloggers 13 common mistakes i see when doing expert roundups (plus a checklist) for freelancers how to build a sustainable freelance writing business while traveling the world for writers of all kinds! 25 top tools for writers to crush it in 2018 for business owners (solopreneurs and entrepreneurs) how to start a blog for your business in 3 easy steps additional resources (for success) 19 ways to ditch the overwhelm and become a productivity powerhouse free stuff all of these resources are fantastic! plus… as my way of thanking you for being a reader of wording well, i want to give you some free stuff. find my freebies on my resource kit page! plus, there are many more (and i mean many more) resources for writers, authors, and freelancers) here as well! enjoy… and let me know what you want more of… in the comments! blogging about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 10 thoughts on “some resources for you (#3)” ramontj' says february 20, 2020 at 6:28 pm hi, lorraine. i am a small business owner in the internet marketing category and a part-time blogger. i am grateful for the helpful resources you have shared here. i thought before looking at the “25 top tools for writers …” i should say thank you. reply lorraine says february 22, 2020 at 1:25 am you’re welcome! reply sahil rajput says august 4, 2018 at 7:49 pm hey lorraine,.. i am a blogger and write about celebrities but there is a problem that my written skill is not good as i want so please suggest me what should i do for improving my writing skills? sahil rajput recently posted…best wishes for new job | congratulations messages for new job reply lorraine says august 6, 2018 at 12:50 pm practice writing, sahil. improve your english. read and watch tv shows in english. every little effort you make will help you! reply cori ramos says july 31, 2018 at 2:50 pm hi lorraine, thanks for putting these resources together for us! i’m going to have to read through these. there’s always something new to learn in the blogging world. 🙂 hope you’re well hun! cori cori ramos recently posted…how to use tailwind to boost traffic to your website reply lorraine says august 4, 2018 at 12:52 am cori, you’re welcome. i’m much better now that my health issue is under control! 🙂 i hope you’re doing great too! reply brian says july 23, 2018 at 11:55 am hi lorraine, thanks so much for including my article about expert roundups in here. much appreciated! cheers, brian reply lorraine says july 26, 2018 at 2:08 am brian, you are very welcome! i appreciate your excellent advice about doing roundups! have a great week! reply adam connell says july 21, 2018 at 7:10 am hey lorraine! a great collection of resources here – thanks for sharing them. and a huge thanks for including alee’s blogging wizard post 🙂 have a great weekend! – adam reply lorraine says july 23, 2018 at 11:35 am adam, thanks a ton for the compliment! how could i not include your posts? 😉 they are awesome! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy