news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals #gametechie with more gamers online, sony and microsoft are looking at ways to deal with increased demands i’m still going to blame lag when i lose in rocket league. by josiah motley march 25, 2020 image: unsplash as more of us stay the heck away from each other in an effort to lower the risk of spreading covid-19, gamers are flocking to their consoles to catch up on games and talk to their friends online. that obviously comes with increased demands on the networks used to play the games online. italy has already felt this first-hand, with its networks recently coming under fire from more gamers being online. now, sony and microsoft are beginning to comment on what they are doing to help with these network issues. in a playstation blog post, ceo jim ryan notes that gamers in europe “may experience somewhat slower or delayed game downloads but will still enjoy robust gameplay,” but doesn’t go into any greater detail on the steps the company is taking to help with the increased demands. for xbox players, microsoft tells engadget that the company is “actively monitoring usage and making temporary adjustments as needed to ensure the smoothest possible experience for our gamers.” microsoft and sony join a growing list of companies that are doing their part in easing rising internet demands. just this week, youtube announced it would lower standard playback qualities, while at&t has announced it will remove any data caps associated with its plans. what do you think? have you noticed any issues when trying to play games online or has everything gone smoothly? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined reddit’s fastest-growing subreddit right now? /r/coronavirus, of course the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus review roundup: animal crossing: new horizons – pure animal crossing goodness related topicscoronavirusgametechiemicrosoftnewsplaystationsonyxbox josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check now, if it could only help with all of my other terrible habits. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 if you're looking to make the jump into the world vr headsets, this is... the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times if you are looking for some mobile games to help you relax, start here. most played online video games in 2020 these are the games players can't get enough of in 2020. what effect has the coronavirus had on the gaming industry? a whole lot apparently. the mini game – an expression of appreciation mini-games can increase our enjoyment of video games considerably. in effect, they’re additional games... review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right well, time to make my pc vr-ready, it seems. the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine not sure what to play through microsoft's xcloud game streaming service? start here. the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie