engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes latest in gaming capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 56m ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 3h ago view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field 3h ago view engadget podcast: how games (and animal crossing!) are keeping us sane 7h ago view image credit: sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the measure should improve network stability as more isolated gamers go online. marc deangelis 3h ago comments 191 shares share tweet share sponsored links engadget earlier this week, both sony and microsoft announced that they would follow the lead of many streaming companies and limit the bandwidth of their gaming services in europe amid the coronavirus pandemic. today, sony updated playstation fans, saying that it will take similar measures in the us. by capping download speeds, the company hopes to maintain network stability as more and more people resort to gaming to pass the time while social distancing. sony says gamers should expect slower game downloads, but assures them that they will experience the same robust gameplay as normal. in other words, it sounds like sony isn't planning on throttling traffic for online games -- just file downloads. with the majority of people working from home and so many people killing time streaming music, movies and games, networks are hit with intense amounts of traffic. hopefully these measures will help preserve network stability so people can continue enjoying them. microsoft hasn't announced any updates regarding xbox's network services in the us. that said, playstation gamers hoping to play doom eternal this weekend may want to start their download sooner rather than later, and xbox gamers might want to download the game while xbox live is still operating at full speed. in this article: av, bandwidth, coronavirus, covid-19, entertainment, gaming, internet, playstation, playstation 4, playstation now, playstation plus, ps4, sony, thebuyersguide all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 191 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr