got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... soothing animal crossing: new horizons nail art is what the world needs right now! home › cocoperez › soothing animal crossing: new horizons nail art is what the world needs right now! feeling quarantine blues?? we get it. it’s been tough staying inside and socially distancing with everything that’s going on outside, but if you’ve been lucky, you’ve already found your coronavirus escape with animal crossing: new horizons! video: watch live swatches & applications of kylie jenner’s nail polish collection! since its highly-anticipated release on march 20, the nintendo switch game has amassed a huge following with loyal players living, breathing, and dreaming of their brand new life on their island in paradise. nail artist katie masters, aka @nailthoughts on instagram, has taken the love for animal crossing to… new horizons… with her amazing design, which we believe will bring so much joy to your soul! this is the content we need right now!! see the finished product (below), but be sure to enjoy all 16+ minutes of her youtube walkthrough (above)! view this post on instagram not even comprehending real world things right now and animal crossing is out and it’s so peaceful and happy and nothing made me more happy than texting everyone last night asking what fruit they got on their island and the music is wonderful and ahhh. i’m really not ready to talk about this shut down. i’ll talk about it later. too much rn😓 for now pretty please just tell me what fruit you got on your island 🥺 i got oranges 🍊 a post shared by katie masters (@nailthoughts) on mar 20, 2020 at 8:08am pdt have u been playing, perezcious readers?? or are u just pining for the days of the original animal crossing? related posts watching kim kardashian squeeze into this skin-tight latex outfit has us feeling some type of way… naomi campbell gets candid about traveling in that hazmat suit amid coronavirus outbreak! here’s how katy perry kept her growing baby bump under wraps!! billie eilish strips down in new video to protest body shaming — ‘i feel your stares’ click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 6:14am pdt share this categories cocoperez game nails nostalgia viral: news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy