about us get to know us our team services all services application & website development content writing e-mail marketing google amp support mobile apps pay per click search engine optimization (seo) seo link acquisition social media technology consulting thin content remediation web design web hosting wordpress optimization clients portfolio client list testimonials support general support glossary & tech lingo google amp faq google amp support thin content remediation sound bites contact about us get to know us our team services all services application & website development content writing e-mail marketing google amp support mobile apps pay per click search engine optimization (seo) seo link acquisition social media technology consulting thin content remediation web design web hosting wordpress optimization clients portfolio client list testimonials support general support glossary & tech lingo google amp faq google amp support thin content remediation sound bites contact sound strategies | web presence development 14869 home,page-template,page-template-full_width,page-template-full_width-php,page,page-id-14869,ajax_fade,page_not_loaded,,qode-title-hidden,qode-child-theme-ver-1.0.0,qode-theme-ver-17.1,qode-theme-bridge,wpb-js-composer js-comp-ver-6.1,vc_responsive sound strategies ranks 2nd for new york development companies! we take pride in our work and strive to deliver the best results possible for our clients. read more! read more! sound strategies ranks #16 on the top 25 global web development agencies list by yahoo! news read more! read more! build it. grow it. drive traffic. we can build you the site of your dreams or take an existing site to the next level. from design to seo and social media, we can manage your entire web presence. learn more learn more who we are sound strategies is one of the top web presence development companies and seo firms in nyc. we’ve kept the small business feel while competing with the big boys. our high level of expertise and success keeps driving us to learn and grow. we all know that in today’s fast paced tech world, if you’re not growing, you’re dying. just like your website. our services we cover the full spectrum of web services to build your website, develop your brand and grow your business. whether you are a large media company, a start-up or a mom & pop shop, we can help! seo services web design social media technology consulting application development wordpress performance optimization google amp hosting content writing mobile app development see all services see all services what makes us different? we are the only nyc based firm that offers a complete suite of high end web presence development, consulting, and hosting services. though we specialize in wordpress, we also work with joomla, drupal, and any custom php/mysql application. we provide managed hosting services as well as dedicated hosting. most of our clients also rely on us for first-tier 24/7 support. we are the industry experts in wordpress performance optimization and development. there is no performance issue that we cannot address. we also provide malware removal and security consulting. we have many large publishing clients and specialize in content management, thin-content remediation, tag page enhancement, google amp, ad integration, and more. we also have a separate team that specifically focuses on creating and maintaining large complex hosting configurations including server clusters and cloud based solutions. call now for a free consultation! 418 managed hosting clients we are not a shared, budget host. offering the fastest and most secure hosting platform for all your data. learn more learn more conquering the web 1 client at a time seo - search engine optimization0% web development0% social media0% our portfolio view pappalardo law blogging, legal, logo design, seo, website design view cryoempire blogging, business, medical, seo, social media, website design view rankmgr blogging, business, seo, tech, website design view alper & associates legal, logo design, website design view mermaid experience art, blogging, photography view mermaid photography art, blogging, photography view da conch shack restaurant, website design view playfit foundation business, sports, website design view all view all latest posts why you should outsource your digital marketing so, you know you need to invest in digital marketing but don’t know where to start. there are two options: hire an individual marketer in-house or outsource your digital marketing...... 16 march, 2020 instagram account ideas: why are your followers unfollowing you? these days, just about everyone is on instagram, but that doesn’t mean everyone is doing it right. whether you’re a small business, a big brand or a personal account, here...... 03 march, 2020 the importance of design in digital marketing design has slowly become one of the most fundamental factors in any successful digital marketing campaign. good design grabs someone’s attention and tells them where to go next. as the...... 04 february, 2020 best posts for facebook: best practices for businesses you know you need to be posting on your business’ facebook page but you have no clue what to do. social media best practices can be tricky, especially if you’re...... 17 december, 2019 view all posts view all posts soundstrategies specializing in development, website optimization, seo, social media and much more! we are #goodatstuff view open view open the world needs a cup of chamomile tea 🌼 hope e view open maybe you’re watching followers come and go, or view open a reminder during stressful times💙 wishing ever view open design has easily become one of the most fundament view open happy #internationalwomensday 💙✨ view open #mondaymotivation the first step to achieving is b view open community over competition! support one another so view open creating an eye-catching design can be a difficult view open take what you need to make the rest of this week g follow us! let’s connect phone: 516-978-1634 send us an email manhattan nyc, ny notable links glossary & tech lingo terms andy locascio feed about us sound strategies is one of the top web development companies and seo firms in nyc. we’ve kept the small business feel while competing with the big boys. our high level of expertise and success keeps driving us to learn and grow. we all know that in today’s fast paced tech world, if you’re not growing, you’re dying. just like your website. © copyright 2020 sound strategies this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. read more accept privacy & cookies policy close privacy overview this website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are as essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. we also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. these cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. you also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. but opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience. necessary always enabled necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. this category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. these cookies do not store any personal information.