coronavirusny schools closed until at least april 15; more borough field hospitals wanted for nyc menu sports cbs2 videos cbs sports live giantsnew york giants jetsnew york jets yanksnew york yankees metsnew york mets knicksnew york knicks netsnew jersey nets rangersnew york rangers devilsnew jersey devils news and updates from cbs 2 new york islandersnew york islanders news and updates from cbs 2 new york odds video cbsn new york cbs2 digital features special reports cbsn from cbs news cbs sports live news weather snap shot nyc health & fitness the dig with elle mclogan all latest videos best of best of travel tantillo more contests & promotions photo galleries travel entertainment news all news ny newsnyc breaking news and local stories today healthwatch nj newsnj news from cbs channel 2 consumer ct newsconnecticut local news from cbs 2 new york business us & world entertainment politics tech offbeat & odd local news latest headlines coronavirus update: timothy cardinal dolan on the challenges of the pandemic, social distancingsocial distancing does not come naturally to our affectionate archbishop timothy cardinal dolan. coronavirus update: long island's long beach boardwalk closes indefinitelysocial distancing has closed many hot spots on long island like long beach boardwalk. galleries coronavirus in new rochelle: containment zone, national guard & new testinggov. andrew cuomo ordered large gatherings, including schools and houses of worship, in a one-mile radius to close in an effort to stop the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. latest video latest video weather weather links local radar & maps forecast videos cbs2 weather app cbs2 weather watchers more weather weather watchers weather videos new york weather: cbs2 3/27 evening forecast at 5pmcbs2's lonnie quinn has your weather forecast for march 27 at 5 p.m.17 minutes ago new york weather: mild spring daycbs2's elise finch has the latest weather forecast.14 hours ago sports all sports cbs2 videos cbs sports live giantsnew york giants jetsnew york jets yanksnew york yankees metsnew york mets knicksnew york knicks netsnew jersey nets rangersnew york rangers devilsnew jersey devils news and updates from cbs 2 new york islandersnew york islanders news and updates from cbs 2 new york odds latest headlines new york knicks forwards julius randle, bobby portis donating $180,000 worth of meals to city harvestthe pair of knicks forwards are getting involved in helping citizens in need of food amid the covid-19 pandemic. roman reigns pulls out of wrestlemania 36roman reigns, a leukemia survivor, will not face goldberg in wrestlemania, now an early-april in-studio event because of coronavirus concerns. video all videos cbsn new york cbs2 digital features special reports cbsn from cbs news cbs sports live news weather snap shot nyc health & fitness the dig with elle mclogan all latest videos more video cbsn new york news weather forecast sports best of latest headlines the queensboro hoping takeout cocktails can help it survive coronaviruslimited to takeout and delivery, the queensboro, a jackson heights neighborhood favorite, looks to keep its employees working. coronavirus home tips: how to stay calm, well-fed and healthy during the covid-19 outbreakstay safe, well-fed and mentally healthy with this at-home tips from cbs sister site chowhound. covid-19 shopping tips: what to buy and what to avoid during the coronavirus pandemicsee what to buy and what to avoid while stocking up during the covid-19 pandemic. coronavirus: famed chef floyd cardoz dies from covid-19-related illness at age 59the mumbai-born chef founded tabla and bombay bread bar, and was hospitalized in new york after returning from an international trip. consumers urged to join tuesday's 'great american takeout' to support restaurantsthe restaurant industry, which has been particular hard-hit by the covid-19 pandemic, is asking consumers to participate in "the great american takeout" on tuesday, march 24. virtual st. patrick's day 2020: video recipes, in-studio band, past parade photos and moresocial distance isolation got you feeling blue? get back into the green with our cooking videos on irish fare, an in-studio band, links to live streaming mass, photo galleries of parades past and more. more station info wcbs-tv wlny-tv contact us advertise contests station events travel coronavirus update: nyc flights resume after being halted over staffing issuesthe faa told air traffic controllers to “stop all departures” to jfk airport, laguardia airport, newark airport, and other regional airports. cbs entertainment cbs entertainment latest photos life in new york city under the coronavirus"social distancing" was an unknown term before the covid-19 coronavirus led to an unprecedented shut down of new york city. omg oh my goodness icons & disruptors podcast cbsn new yorkwatch now sources: fire marshals question person of interest after deadly subway blaze in harlem march 27, 2020 at 1:50 pm filed under:harlem, local tv, manhattan, mta, new york, subway new york (cbsnewyork) – fire marshals are questioning a person of interest following a deadly subway fire early this morning in harlem, police sources tell cbs2. investigators are still working to determine whether the blaze was intentionally set. there was tragedy below ground early friday morning. a train operator was killed in the fire. plumes of smoke could be seen above ground as first responders rushed to the scene. police have launched a criminal investigation. (credit: twitter/@tripleg_rto) the inside of the second car of northbound 2 train was left totally destroyed by the fire. seats and overhead lights were completely melted, with nothing left but metal and black ash in the aftermath. the mta says the train pulled into the 110th street central park north station around 3 a.m. interim new york city transit president sarah feinberg says those inside were rescued by fast acting workers. watch: news conference on subway fire “two employees on the train successfully evacuated passengers off the train and onto the platform,” feinberg said. firefighters also evacuated people who were on board a train that was behind the one that caught fire, and passengers were guided safely through the tunnel to an emergency exit, feinberg said. unfortunately the train operator wasn’t able to make it out alive. at least nine other people were injured, feinberg said. “absolutely heartbroken to share the news that one of our new york city transit family members passed away as a result of an incident this morning,” said feinberg. “we are devastated by this. this is a hard moment for new york city transit. a devastating incident. our hearts and prayers are with our families, with our work force, and with the family of and loved ones of our family member who has passed away… . this is another horrific moment for our family.” the transit workers union said the motorman was a 36-year-old garrett goble, who lived in brooklyn. he was a member of the mta for six years and leaves behind two children, including a 5-month-old. at the moment, it doesn’t seem the fire was caused by accident. “right now we’re investigating several things. there were other fires that we are looking at that we have to see is connected to this on 86th street and 96th street, we’re looking at that. we’re also looking at a fire on 116th street as we speak,” said deputy chief brian mcgee of the nypd. “this is a criminal investigation, absolutely.” the fires at 86th street and 96th street were on the platform. the fire at 116th street was on street level, mcgee said. mcgee says the nypd will go through every piece of evidence available. people in the neighborhood told cbs2’s kevin rincon if the fire was intentionally set, they want justice. “if somebody is deliberately setting it, then they need to get to it an d find out who it was. because a life was taken. somebody basically murdered someone, whether they’re aware of it or not,” one person said. consider traveling to nearby 96 st and 86 st stations on the c line. or, take m104 bus service on broadway to/from 79 st, 72 st or 103 st. pic.twitter.com/6winvde6zf — nyct subway. stay home. stop the spread. (@nyctsubway) march 27, 2020 anyone with any information is asked to call the nypd’s crime stoppers hotline at 1-800-577-tips (8477), or for spanish, 1-888-57-pista (74782). you can also submit a tip via their website or on twitter, @nypdtips. all calls are kept confidential. click here for the latest mta service changes. comments (2) oveida sinclair says: march 27, 2020 at 6:50 pm well if da mayor can’t control the virus and lock down his 50%+ infected city, the citizens must step in. i seen pictures of subway cars full of people yesterday on the news, new york has 47% or the wuhan virus victems in it’s state alone ! reply peter york says: march 27, 2020 at 3:04 pm how to start a new york city subway fire. 1. light match 2. ignite car any questions? reply leave a reply cancel reply follow us facebook_url twitter_url youtube_url instagram_url reddit_url linkedin_url our | newsletter most viewed coronavirus update: more than a dozen patients die with 24 hours at queens hospital coronavirus update: pharmacies running low on prescriptions for other conditions coronavirus cabin fever can be dangerous, psychologist warns: 'when we're stressed & feel trapped, conflict likely to increase' sources: fire marshals question person of interest after deadly subway blaze in harlem max minute: what's the deal with high-dose vitamin c helping ward off coronavirus? coronavirus update: mayor bill de blasio still hopes to open nyc schools in april coronavirus update: new jersey cases jump by nearly 2,500, including 19 new deaths coronavirus update: cuomo says new york likely to lose $10-15 billion as a result of pandemic coronavirus update: those who have recovered looking for guidance on when isolation can stop coronavirus update: testing in nassau county more readily available, but criteria hasn't changed follow us facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagramredditlinkedin news new york newsnyc breaking news and local stories today new jersey newsnj news from cbs channel 2 tri-state weathernew york metro area weather forecasts from cbs channel 2 connecticut newsconnecticut local news from cbs 2 new york local news sports yankeesnew york yankees news and updates from cbs 2 new york metsnew york mets news and updates from cbs 2 new york giantsnew york giants football news and updates from cbs 2 new york jetsnew york jets news and updates from cbs 2 new york knicksnew york knicks news and updates from cbs 2 new york netsbrooklyn nets news and updates from cbs 2 new york rangersnew york rangers news and updates from cbs 2 new york devilsnew jersey devils news and updates from cbs 2 new york islandersnew york islanders news and updates from cbs 2 new york nycfc entertainment best of travel only cbs station info cbs 2 wlny tv 10/55 anchors & reporters contact us contests & promotions station events sitemap corporate about us advertise connect cbs television jobs eeo reports ©2020 cbs broadcasting inc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip by viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our video services policy privacy policy terms of use california privacy/info we collect california do not sell my info mobile user agreement ad choices public file for wcbs-tv / cbs 2 public file for wlny-tv / 10/55 public inspection file help cbs 2 eeo report wlny tv 10/55 eeo report