editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 4 mins ago gop rep. who came under fire over ‘beer virus’ joke apologizes 1 hour ago what’s it like at liberty university right now? 1 hour ago alabama gov. refuses to issue shelter in place order: ‘we are not california’ spain reports record number of coronavirus deaths in one day civil defence members carry a patient on a stretcher as they arrive at the severo ochoa hospital in leganes, on march 26, 2020. - spain's coronavirus death toll surged above 4,000 today but the increase in both fatal... civil defence members carry a patient on a stretcher as they arrive at the severo ochoa hospital in leganes, on march 26, 2020. - spain's coronavirus death toll surged above 4,000 today but the increase in both fatalities and new infections slowed, leaving officials hopeful a nationwide lockdown is starting to curb the spread of the disease. a total of 655 deaths were recorded in the country in the last 24 hours, bringing the toll to 4,089, the health ministry said. (photo by javier soriano / afp) (photo by javier soriano/afp via getty images) more less by associated press | march 27, 2020 9:32 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. madrid — spain is reporting a record number of daily deaths at 769. spain’s coronavirus cases increased by 7,800 friday to total 64,059 cases. there’s a total of 4,858 deaths. the director of spain’s health emergency coordination center, fernando simón, says the day-on-day increase of infections is slightly lower for the first time since a rapid rise in early march. the country has the second-worse tally in europe and fourth in the world. from wednesday to thursday, the positives had increased in more than 8,500 cases, some 700 more than thursday to friday. the daily increase was 14% friday, lower than in previous days. spain’s health ministry says more than 9,000 people have recovered from the covid-19 illness. have a tip? send it here! includes: 2020 covid outbreak apcoronaviruscovid-19spain more in news 4 mins ago gop rep. who came under fire over ‘beer virus’ joke apologizes 1 hour ago what’s it like at liberty university right now? 1 hour ago alabama gov. refuses to issue shelter in place order: ‘we are not california’ comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy