skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search sparkling theme documentation home » support » sparkling theme documentation table of contents installation custom menu custom background custom header image (logo) set up homepage featured slider customization how to disable page comments recommended image sizes how to set up blog page translation gallery footer copyright call for action custom widgets social media icons widget areas 1. theme installation 1.1 through dashboard (easy) go to appearance -> themes. click on install themes at the top. click on upload tab upload “sparkling.zip” archive file via web interface activate newly installed theme 1.2 manual installation using ftp (advanced) go to sparkling page at https://colorlib.com/wp/sparkling . click on download button to download theme on your desktop. unzip sparkling.zip on your desktop. you should get folder called “sparkling” access your host web server using your favorite ftp client (such as cyberduck and transmit for mac), filezilla (windows & mac) or other). navigate to /wp-content/themes/ and upload entire “sparkling” folder. now open wp dashboard and go to appearance -> themes and activate sparkling theme from there. 2. custom menu sparkling theme supports wordpress custom menu in header and footer but you can feel free to add custom menu in any widget area as well. more about its default functionality you can find on this tutorial made by team behind wordpress itself. custom menu uses a simple drag & drop interface, so no technical knowledge is required. 2.1. advanced menu setup this theme uses a custom made bootstrap nav walker that allows to use glyphicons and other bootstrap styling. only drawback for it is that is only support two menu levels – main and one sub-menu. this script included the ability to add bootstrap dividers, dropdown headers, glyphicons and disables links to your menus through the wordpress menu interface. 2.1.1. dividers simply add a link menu item with a url of # and a link text or title attribute of divider (case-insensitive so ‘divider’ or ‘divider’, both will work ) and the class will do the rest. 2.1.2. glyphicons to add an icon to your link simple place the glyphicon class name in the links title attribute field and the class will do the rest. glyphicon classes you can find here. 2.1.3. dropdown headers adding a dropdown header (unclickable menu title that could be used to describe this sections) is very similar, add a new link with a url of # and a title attribute of dropdown-header (it matches the bootstrap css class so it’s easy to remember). set the navigation label to your header text and the class will do the rest. 2.1.4. disabled links to set a disabled link simply add “disabled” to the title attribute and the theme will do the rest. 2.2 font awesome icons this theme also supports font awesome icons that you can add right before or after each menu item. here is an example how it would look if you want to add cogs font awesome icons inside menu: all font awesome icons you can find on their website. 3. custom background sparkling theme supports wordpress custom backgrounds feature. in wordpress dashboard go to appearance -> background. you can either set the image or solid color as background. you can see the background preview on the same setting page. click save changes when you are satisfied with what you see. you can always reset theme default background. 4. header image (logo upload) for custom header image and custom logo upload this theme uses wordpress custom header functionality which can be accessed via wordpress dashboard – appearance – header. here is how it works: upload logo using already familiar wordpress media uploader or select image which is already uploaded. crop it (recommended cropped image size will be displayed in the square but you can feel free to modify it but you might “break” website layout in some cases). hit crop and publish button and you are ready to go. 5. setup featured slider for homepage sparkling theme relies on flexslider image slider which is built in into theme and no plugin is required. slider settings are located in appearance >> customize >> sparkling options >> slider options to enable slider tick checkbox and you will see that two no options will appear “slider category” and “number of slider items” select category from dropdown to use for slider now select number of slides to be used in slider (newest posts from that category will be used) make sure you have featured images uploaded and added for those posts. 6. customization there are several customizations available for this theme via appearance >> customize >> sparkling options. you can change elements color, link color, header menu style, footer color, social link color and many other aspects. if you feel that you can’t do something via web interface, please notify us via support forum. 7. how to disable comments for page/post open particular page on which you want to turn off comments via wp dashboard. look for the discussion box below the post editor box. it might be disabled but you can enable it via screen options on the upper right corner of post/page edit screen. uncheck “allow comments” in the discussion box and hit update. to disable comments on posts “globally”. go to settings – discussion – and untick “ allow people to post comments on new articles“. this will apply for new posts. post that are already published won’t be changed and will still have open comments section. 8. recommended image sizes featured image (blog and single post) is set to 750 by 410 pixels. featured slider images. personally i use 1920 by 550 pixel images for sparkling demo but you can feel free to use any other image size. images won’t be scaled and you will get what you upload. please note! images for slider is not resized and are displayed the same size you uploaded them. other images such as featured images for posts are resized automatically as you upload them. 9. how to set up blog page blog should be displayed by default on front page. if you have chosen to use home page as static like i have in theme demo you will have to setup blog page separately. create a new page and name it “blog” or whatever you feel right. go to setting – reading and select “a static page (select below)” now select previously created page as “posts page:” 10. translation sparkling theme is translation ready and has translation files included. please see this tutorial on how to translate this or any other wordpress theme. once you have translated sparkling, please send translation files to use and we will include them in the next theme update. we would really appreciate your contribution! you will also get featured on our website and theme installation itself. 11. gallery page gallery page as on sparkling demo is created using jetpack plugin, which is developed by the same team which is behind wordpress itself. download and install jetpack. enable function called “tiled galleries” via wordpress dashboard – jetpack. create a post/page like you normally would. create wordpress gallery and set tiled mosaic under gallery settings on the right side of the gallery edit screen. now create gallery itselft (see video below) 12. footer copyright we made it easy to change footer copyright information for this theme. you can change it viaappearance >> customize >> sparkling options >> footer. this form supports html for urls and other formatting. you can also change footer background, text, link color via theme options. 13. call for action this feature is disabled by default and you can enable it via appearance >> customize >> sparkling options >> action button. most important parts of this section is text, button and link where this button will lead your visitors when clicked. underneath you will find several color pickers to customize this area, but it is only optional and this area will look stunning (like in theme demo) without any customization. 14. custom widgets 14.1 popular posts widget it is a custom built wordpress widget that can be used like any other default widget. you can enable it via appearance – widgets by selecting “sparkling popular posts widget”. there is only two options and both are straightforward – title and number of posts. sparkling popular post widget setup in backend and frontend preview 14.2. sparkling categories it is a custom wordpress widget to display categories and number of post for each category. it doesn’t do much but it does look much better than default wordpress category widget. you can enable it via appearance – widgets. sparkling categories preview in backend and frontend 14.3. sparkling social widget social widget uses the same social profile links that you can configure via theme options – social. this widget doesn’t have any customization options except title. it just works! 15. social media icons create a new menu in wordpress dashboard >> appearance >> menus make sure to use social profile urls as “custom links” inside menu. this theme supports facebook, twitter, dribbble, flickr, google+, skype, pinterest.com, linkedin, vimeo, tumblr, instagram, rss feed (example: https://colorlib.com/feed ) soundcloud, foursquare, github, spotify and email (mailto:[email protected]). once you are done with menu items (social profiles) you should select “theme location” for menu as “social menu”. for more info please see a screenshot below. social media icons by default will appear inside footer are but you can also use “sparkling social widget” to add them in other widget areas. 16. widget areas there are 3 widget areas with 7 widget block in total. one area is for static front page (if one is used), second one is for a regular sidebar and third one is for footer widget area. all these widget areas can have unlimited number of widgets. this is how widgets are configured for our theme demo attention in case you are using esy bootstrap shortcodes plugin which we recommended here, you must configure it like you can see in screenshot below. otherwise 3 additional files will be loaded that are already part of theme and will cause duplicates, conflicts and performance issues and we are sure that you don’t want to experience that. under some circumstances it might cause dropdown menus to be unclickable, so make sure to configure this plugin properly. if you feel that something is missing from this you can start a new thread on our support forum. disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube colorlib themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum we recommend: categories coupons ecommerce frameworks free themes giveaway hosting inspiration logo design mockups news photography plugins portfolio promotions psd templates reviews snippets theme collections tools tutorial uncategorized website builders website design website templates metro colors color mixer we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×