content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search speaking experienced, professional speakers that audiences love in addition to founder jay baer – one of the world’s most in-demand marketing and customer service speakers, and a certified speaking professional – the convince & convert team includes many dynamic and experienced speakers. the team delivers keynote presentations, breakout programs, half and full-day workshops, webinars, and more. many corporate clients work with the convince & convert speaking team to deliver custom training, on-site, in addition to the more than one hundred conferences and events where the group speaks each year. for information on dates and program, please contact director of events michelle joyce at (704) 965-2339 or michelle@jaybaer.com jay baer jay baer is the founder of convince & convert, an advisor to more than 700 brands, an inductee into the word of mouth marketing hall of fame, and one of the world’s most popular and powerful speakers. a certified speaking professional, jay is also a member of speakers roundtable, a cadre of 25 exceptionally adept speakers from across the globe. jay is an experienced emcee and event host who has delivered power-packed programs for united nations, us department of state, ibm, oracle, anytime fitness, sxsw and several hundred more. topics: marketing digital marketing online ratings, reviews, and reputation customer experience and customer service word of mouth see jay in action visit jaybaer.com for more information daniel lemin daniel lemin is a global speaker, startup co-founder, digital marketing veteran, and bestselling author of manipurated. he cut his teeth at google on the global marketing team early in his career, and now mentors and consults with organizations like comcast, united nations, procter & gamble, best buy and 3m. he has particular expertise in online reviews, reputation, and crisis management. you name the crazy review scenario, and he’s heard the story. he is an avid world traveler and likes weird food as long as it doesn’t bite back. topics: marketing digital marketing online ratings, reviews, and reputation customer experience and customer service innovation watch daniel speak zontee hou zontee hou (pronounced “hoe”) is the founder of new york-based consultancy media volery, an adjunct professor in the city college of new york’s graduate communications program, and a speaker at events across the country. with a passion for brand strategy, content marketing, and consumer behavior, zontee advises organizations ranging from allstate insurance to indiana university. she is consistently rated across industries as an engaging speaker who presents actionable and useful content. zontee’s work has won multiple pr news platinum awards, a forrester groundswell award, and she was recently selected as one of the 50 most influential women in content marketing of 2017. topics: content marketing customer journey consumer behavior branding and brand strategy social media strategy watch zontee speak anna hrach anna is a speaker, marketing strategist, and content expert who tackles clients’ toughest marketing problems with the tenacity and fearlessness of a honey badger. not like a mean one, though. more like the nice, non-bitey kind. anna was named one of the 50 most influential women in content marketing of 2017. for more than a decade, she’s developed super-smart content strategies for companies ranging from up-and-coming startups to fortune 500s. her experience spans a range of industries, including pharmaceuticals, beauty, healthcare, hospitality, insurance, consumer packaged goods, banking and education. she’s also helped build content departments at three different agencies. topics: content marketing, content strategy, content creation digital marketing customer journey and customer experience consumer behavior brand strategy and brand storytelling kristina paider kristina paider is a hollywood screenwriter, global business strategist, and the founder of hollywood approach, a firm that helps individuals and companies around the world accelerate results. for 20 years, she had a dual career as a screenwriter and a senior marketing executive, in which she oversaw the marketing for a 10 billion dollar organization, leveraging story tactics to achieve client connection, media attention and improved revenue. kristina’s thought leadership has been adapted and modeled by a range of organizations from non-profits to $10 billion corporations. she specializes in infusing client experience, story, character, and dialogue to evoke action and impact the bottom line. kristina has worked with clients and colleagues in 28 countries around the world. topics: storytelling data storytelling customer experience marketing brand strategy watch kristina speak lauren teague lauren teague spent seven seasons giving golf fans a look inside the ropes of the pga tour, as the original social media manager of the world’s largest professional golf organization. in this role, she produced the first-ever live coverage from sports event on twitter. she a communications pro who is passionate about putting social back into social media. she is a storyteller and fan advocate, honing her craft and building community 140 characters at a time. as a speaker, coach, and strategist, lauren works with some of the world’s most interesting brands on digital strategy, social media audits and scaling resources. topics: real-time marketing content marketing and content creation social media strategy millennial marketing jenny magic jenny magic is a content marketing strategist who loves getting people excited about change. jenny has spent almost two decades delivering training workshops and strategies to clients like prudential, cisco, acxiom, and alcon. she always earns top audience ratings and repeat invitations for her speaking sessions at conferences like content marketing world (2012, 2014, 2015, 2018), contenttech/intelligent content conference (2015, 2019), citrix summit (2019 & 2020), and modevux (2014). she has also judged the content marketing awards since 2015, served as a sxsw mentor, and hosts the 1200+ member #austincontent meetup. topics: content + digital strategy, especially audience alignment implementation planning change management team makeup & development see jenny in action for information on dates and program, please contact director of events michelle joyce at (704) 965-2339 or michelle@jaybaer.com speak to a convince & convert strategist let's schedule a call to chat about your marketing goals and challenges. simply fill out this form and a convince & convert strategist will get back to you within 1 business day (or sooner) to schedule your call. we can't wait to chat with you! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept