barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up good these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest levity tomkinson writer shares share tweet pin bark partners with shelters, rescues and non-profits to help support their efforts in many ways. want to get your local shelter or rescue involved? have one of their representatives visit www.barkbox.com/lendapaw to learn more! stories abound of how dogs provide comfort to — as well as perform functional tasks for — humans with both physical and non–visually identifiable disabilities. this article, however, focuses on the reverse — humans who are helping to provide love, medical care and assistance in finding a furever home to dogs with disabilities or those who may be more difficult to place. both humans and animals with disabilities can be marginalized, however, the rescues and organizations below value these dogs as we all should. to them, they are simply a dog. 1. deaf dogs rock deaf dogs rock (ddr), whose slogan is “deaf dogs hear with their hearts,” began with nitro, a boxer puppy who was found abandoned by a river in salem, virginia. nitro, who also happens to be deaf, has helped bring visibility to other dogs like himself. while ddr is not a rescue, they are a 501(c)(3) non–profit that networks deaf dogs, provides educational tools, participates in community building as well as helps provide financial assistance for needs of deaf dogs. 2. special needs animal rescue and rehabilitation special needs animal rescue and rehabilitation (snarr), another 501(c)(3) non–profit, is a rescue based out of st. martinville, louisiana that focuses on “animals least likely to receive another chance due to physical, emotional, behavioral, or health issues.” while working at a shelter with an extremely high euthanasia rate of 85% and approximately only seven dogs adopted out a month, robin menard began networking these dogs through facebook. within three months, her efforts resulted in an average of 110 dogs being adopted out a month. understanding the power behind these numbers, robin decided to found snarr. dogs who have been rescued by snarr range from a paralyzed dog named moja to a litter of six hairless puppies with severe mange to a puppy named rudy who has a rare condition known as cranio mandibular osteopathy and more. snarr recognizes that their adoptable animals have special needs, but it’s not what you may think. their very specific special need is that “they need someone like you to love and care for them.” 3. blind dog rescue alliance just like deaf dogs rock, blind dog rescue alliance (bdra) understands that a dog can still communicate despite being differently–abled. bdra’s slogan of “blind dogs see with their heart” showcases their belief that even though some dogs may not have eyesight, they still can do what matters most — give and receive love. a 501(c)(3) non–profit with volunteers spread throughout the united states and canada, bdra strives to help blind and visually impaired dogs through rescuing such dogs in shelters, providing assistance to blind dog owners and educating the public. 4. pets with disabilities when pets with disabilities‘ (pwd) founders joyce darrell and michael dickerson’s dog, duke, was still a puppy, he broke his back while playing, causing him to lose the use of his back legs and require a wheelchair. a few months later, joyce and michael adopted misty — another wheelchair–bound dog — who had been at a new york shelter for over five years. seeing that there were no support systems or educational tools for those who had a pet with disabilities, joyce and michael began pwd, a rescue that also offers support, education and wheelchair assistance. 5. panda paws rescue founded in 2011 by amanda giese and gary walters and a 501(c)3 non–profit, panda paws rescue (ppr) specializes in providing care for dogs who are “medically needy, special needs and hospice.” something else that makes ppr slightly different is that the majority of the dogs who ppr rescues are personally fostered in the home of amanda and gary. while amanda and gary like to try to foster as many dogs as possible in their home, some dogs can claim the status of permanent family member — like duncan lou who. duncan lou who, or dlw for short, is a boxer who was born with his rear legs fused in an x shape. both of his rear legs were amputated as they were twisting duncan’s spine and “100% unusable.” now, duncan is proof of how resilient special needs dogs are. he was up and walking on two legs just an hour after his surgery. 6. rolling dog farm rolling dog farm (rdf) began almost 16 years ago with steve smith and alayne marker’s dream of creating a “special place for animals with disabilties.” the name of this 501(c)3 non–profit was born from the joy that steve and alayne witnessed when their dogs would roll on their backs in the “sagebrush and grass–covered meadows.” after a name change for the rescue and a cross–country move, that joy has still carried on throughout the years. as steve and alayne write on rdf’s website, “there isn’t a single animal here who feels sorry for him or herself. each and every one of them loves being alive.” 7. heath’s haven rescue & sanctuary many rescues are started because of that one very special dog and heath’s haven rescue & sanctuary (hhrs), a 501 (c)(3) non–profit that is located in post falls, idaho, is no exception. hhrs began in 2010 when jolene and shawn heath adopted a husky mix puppy named phoenix who had hind end weakness. the heaths ordered a wheelchair for phoenix and started her on acupuncture and hydrotherapy treatments. seeing the wonderful quality of life they were able to give phoenix — a dog who could’ve been euthanized otherwise — inspired the couple to use their time and resources to help other dogs like her. hhrs rescues dogs who would otherwise be euthanized for neurological and mobility issues, spinal injuries and/or paralysis. once in their care, the dog is evaluated by a specialist so that they can further understand the best treatment moving forward and then rehabilitation begins. hhrs rehabilitates their dogs using numerous techniques — acupuncture, hydrotherapy and physical therapy. once rehabilitation work is done, each dog is given their very own wheelchair that will go with them once they are adopted. to see just how happy, well–adjusted and wheelchair–rockin’ hhrs’ dogs are, watch the video below (and grab a tissue). all of these rescues and organizations are able to continue their important and much–needed work through donations. links to help support their missions can be found below. deaf dogs rock special needs animal rescue and rehabilitation blind dog rescue alliance pets with disabilities panda paws rescue rolling dog farm heath’s haven rescue & sanctuary featured image via panda paws rescue looking to make a difference right now? use code barkgives on barkbox.com for 50% off your first box on any 6 or 12 month plan plus we’ll donate $10 to our rescue partners with every redemption! comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up levity tomkinson writer partially deaf dog barks so loud because she's hoping a forever human will hear her abused pup and nfl linebacker team up to deliver a powerful message about dogfighting op-ed: bsl isn't just bad for pit bulls & pit bull owners - it's bad for everyone 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go