news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals news a new study shows that speech recognition software has higher error rates with black people unacceptable, but sadly, not that surprising. by josiah motley march 24, 2020 image: unsplash joining the ranks of facial recognition, which has higher rates of error when identifying african americans, speech recognition also has this same type of bias. according to a new study by pnas (proceedings of the national academy of sciences of the united states of america), voice recognition software from companies like “amazon, apple, google, ibm, and microsoft” all display racial disparities when looking at the accuracy of speech. the study states that from their sample size – 73 black speakers and 42 white speakers – the average word error rate (wer) was 0.35 for black speakers and 0.19 for white speakers. the study used speakers from five different us cities and noted that black men had the highest error rates (0.41) compared to black women (0.30). for white people, the error rates were more uniform (0.21 for men and 0.17 for women). i’ll do the math for you. this means that the error rate for black people was almost double that of white people in the test. so, what can be done about this? the answer is clear, companies like google and amazon need to do a better job of diversifying their data sets and improving their acoustic models to account for different types of speech. with seemingly more products releasing with speech recognition abilities every day, these types of issues are unacceptable. according to one report, at least 60 million people in america own one or more smart speakers. it’s time for these tech companies to get it together. what do you think? surprised by the results of this study? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: a facial recognition firm says their ai can identify people even if they’re wearing face masks clearview ai, the powerful facial recognition startup, let rich people and friends use its app american airlines will start to use facial recognition to help you board your plane faster the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus related topicsfacial recognitionnewssmart speakertech josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in news the fbi is pushing a home-workout app that tracks your location and wifi network why would you ever willingly download an app from the fbi? with more people stuck at home, youtube is lowering automatic video quality playback you can still manually change it to hd, however. reddit’s fastest-growing subreddit right now? /r/coronavirus, of course one of the tricks they use to keep everything factual? banning political posts. 5th gen waymo driver to innovate autonomous vehicles waymo isn't done yet. apple released a new ipad pro and macbook air – here’s everything you need to know do yourself a favor and just buy a macbook. the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus with the stakes high, is privacy the trade-off for health? as more movie theaters shut down, universal is putting its new movies on streaming services each rental will set you back $19.99. so, apparently, grubhub will still make restaurants pay back the suspended commission fees grubhub has gone from hero to zero, real quick. reddit’s fastest-growing subreddit right now? /r/coronavirus, of course with more people stuck at home, youtube is lowering automatic video quality playback home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie