skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more more episodes march 25, 2020 spi 416: before your first (or next) presentation do this, with grant baldwin march 18, 2020 spi 415: how to make money through voice-over work, with mike russell march 11, 2020 spi 414: the podcast interviewer authority strategy that led to a six-figure business, with erika vieira march 4, 2020 spi 413: the secrets of publishing for profit (both fiction and non-fiction), with mark dawson all episodes smart passive income podcast with pat flynn / spi 243 next episode subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads hosted by: pat flynn spi 243: how to create your life vision plan with michael hyatt share: today's episode is all about goals: setting them, achieving them, and knowing when to change them. and who better to talk about achieving great things than michael hyatt? michael's the mastermind behind so many amazing projects, including the this is your life™ podcast, living forward, platform university, and an online course called 5 days to your best year ever. that course, which i'm taking this year, is packed with incredible lessons in goal-setting and focus. i've invited michael here today to learn more about the strategy and wisdom that went into this incredible course. in this episode, you'll hear michael's expert advice for pursuing the right goals in the right way. you'll also hear about his experience validating business ideas, creating online courses, building a community around those courses, and lots more. this is one seriously value-packed episode—don't miss it! let's start 2017 together! i'm taking michael's new course, 5 days to your best year ever! i've already signed up, and you can too. as a bonus for those who sign up through my link, i'll be emailing you after the cart closes on december 15th and inviting you to a private facebook group where i and all other spi students will go through the course together and hold each other accountable for our goals! if you'd like to sign up and get it before the price goes up, just click on the link below! click here to sign up for 5 days to your best year ever! thanks for listening! thanks so much for joining me again this week. have some feedback you'd like to share? leave a note in the comment section below! if you enjoyed this episode, please share it using the social media buttons you see at the bottom of the post. also, please leave an honest review for the spi podcast on itunes! ratings and reviews are extremely helpful and greatly appreciated! they do matter in the rankings of the show, and i read each and every one of them. if you have any questions (or would like answers to hear previously submitted voicemail questions!), head on over to askpat.com. this bite-sized show has over two million downloads and counting! and finally, don’t forget to subscribe to the show on itunes to get automatic updates. special thanks to michael for joining me this week. until next time! today's guest michael hyatt website: michaelhyatt.com twitter: michaelhyatt you'll learn common myths about goal-setting and productivity. accountability strategies to keep you on track. “the big three,” and how michael uses them to stay productive every day. how michael's business (and his personal life) changed after he expanded his team. tips for how and when to share your goals with others. how michael validated his idea for his online course. a simple test for figuring out when it's time to modify or abandon a goal. special access to 5 days to your best year ever, and more! resources note: some of the resources below may be affiliate links, meaning i receive a commission (at no extra cost to you) if you use that link to make a purchase. michaelhyatt.com 5 days to your best year ever free to focus strengths finder living forward [amazon affiliate link] the one thing derek sivers's ted talk brené brown necessary endings [amazon affiliate link] podcast transcript click the button to the right to download the whole episode in pdf form from start to finish. download the transcript share: next episode: spi 244: bootstrapping a startup with nathan barry from convertkit listen now featured episodes we host some of the smartest minds in business tim ferriss startup investor and author of the iconic bestseller, the 4-hour workweek ramit sethi bestselling author and founder of iwillteachyoutoberich.com michael hyatt business leader and bestselling author of free to focus gary vaynerchuk bestselling author, founder of vaynermedia, and popular youtuber chalene johnson fitness icon, motivational speaker, and bestselling author amy porterfield online marketing expert and creator of digital course academy about the show on the show, pat reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources, and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. your host: pat flynn smart passive income podcast & ask pat 2.0 pat is a family man who also happens to be the creator of spi as well as a bestselling author, serial entrepreneur, and startup advisor. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less