skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more more episodes march 25, 2020 spi 416: before your first (or next) presentation do this, with grant baldwin march 18, 2020 spi 415: how to make money through voice-over work, with mike russell march 11, 2020 spi 414: the podcast interviewer authority strategy that led to a six-figure business, with erika vieira march 4, 2020 spi 413: the secrets of publishing for profit (both fiction and non-fiction), with mark dawson all episodes smart passive income podcast with pat flynn / spi 335 next episode subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads hosted by: pat flynn spi 335: creating evergreen sales funnels (and what to watch out for) with amy porterfield share: i'm going to lay it out there: i don't know everything. and one of the things i don't know everything about is evergreen sales funnels. how evergreen is an evergreen sales funnel? what are some of the pros and cons? well, when i don't know the answers i go to the experts, which is why i have amy porterfield on the podcast with me today to dish on evergreen sales funnels. let's get into it! if you don't know what a funnel is, it's basically the process by which you convert a potential customer to a paying customer. an evergreen sales funnel is one you set up ahead of time so that the progression happens automatically, as opposed to something like a live launch which takes a lot more work (and can really do a number on your energy levels). but evergreen sales funnels aren't as automatic as some might assume, and there's some important steps you don't want to miss. you also probably don't want to dive headfirst into evergreen sales funnels without some serious research. if that's you, guess what? you're in the right place! amy and i are diving deep into the processes and strategies she uses to run successful, high-converting evergreen sales funnels. learn why and if you should consider an evergreen funnel, how to use scarcity to drive sales, the tools amy uses to knock it out of the park, the five ad phases amy uses during her funnels . . . there's just so much great information here! put that phone away, take notes, listen closely—you know the drill. hit play and soak it all in! learn more about amy at amyporterfield.com and the marketing made easy podcast, which i highly recommend! amy was also featured on session 137 and session 278 of the smart passive income podcast. definitely subscribe so you don't miss any awesome upcoming episodes. and speaking of awesome episodes, be sure to listen next wednesday, because i'm bringing the ceo of a pretty amazing company onto the podcast. along with his two brothers, he started a company in one of the most intense and competitive niches out there and broke some records in the process. it's going to be a good one—don't miss it! i've been doing a bunch of live webinars and free trainings recently, and i'd love to see you at the next one! if you want to see when the next training is, and also where i'm speaking next, go to smartpassiveincome.com/connect. if you're looking for help on starting a podcast, how to do affiliate marketing, or even if you're starting a business from scratch, that's where to go. see you there! thanks for listening! to share your thoughts: leave a note in the comment section below. ask a question over on askpat.com. share this show on twitter, facebook, or pinterest. to help out the show: leave an honest review on itunes. your ratings and reviews really help and i read each one. subscribe on itunes. special thanks to amy porterfield for joining me this week. until next time! today's guest amy porterfield considering evergreen sales funnels? listen in for key strategies, common mistakes, and tools and resources for success. website: amyporterfield.com twitter: amyporterfield you'll learn why amy's focusing on cleaning up and strengthening in her business right now. why you should start with a live launch before you try to go evergreen. the conversion percentages of live and evergreen funnels, and the big “ah-ha” that makes the difference. why evergreen launches are so much more stable than live launches. how to create scarcity in your evergreen funnels. the tools and resources amy recommends for running successful evergreen funnels. how amy decides what bonuses to include in her funnels. why an evergreen launch is never a “one-and-done,” and why they require some ongoing work. when you should re-approach prospects who didn't purchase during the evergreen funnel. the five phases of ads that amy uses during her evergreen funnel. big mistakes that people make when going evergreen and how you can avoid them. what kinds of emails amy uses during her funnels, what she finds most effective, and more! resources note: some of the resources below may be affiliate links, meaning i receive a commission (at no extra cost to you) if you use that link to make a purchase. the 4-hour workweek by tim ferriss online marketing made easy podcast easywebinar infusionsoft plusthis deadline funnel webinars that convert power-up podcasting leadpages demio interact free webinars with pat flynn session 137 of the smart passive income podcast (with amy porterfield) session 278 of the smart passive income podcast (with amy porterfield) share: next episode: spi 336: the story of super coffee—from dorm room to whole foods and beyond with jim decicco listen now featured episodes we host some of the smartest minds in business tim ferriss startup investor and author of the iconic bestseller, the 4-hour workweek ramit sethi bestselling author and founder of iwillteachyoutoberich.com michael hyatt business leader and bestselling author of free to focus gary vaynerchuk bestselling author, founder of vaynermedia, and popular youtuber chalene johnson fitness icon, motivational speaker, and bestselling author amy porterfield online marketing expert and creator of digital course academy about the show on the show, pat reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources, and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. your host: pat flynn smart passive income podcast & ask pat 2.0 pat is a family man who also happens to be the creator of spi as well as a bestselling author, serial entrepreneur, and startup advisor. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less