skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more more episodes march 25, 2020 spi 416: before your first (or next) presentation do this, with grant baldwin march 18, 2020 spi 415: how to make money through voice-over work, with mike russell march 11, 2020 spi 414: the podcast interviewer authority strategy that led to a six-figure business, with erika vieira march 4, 2020 spi 413: the secrets of publishing for profit (both fiction and non-fiction), with mark dawson all episodes smart passive income podcast with pat flynn / spi 110 next episode subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads hosted by: pat flynn spi 110: tim ferriss on podcasting, productivity, experimentation, and if he had to start over share: i'm extremely happy to welcome tim ferriss back to the spi podcast! tim is an unofficial mentor of mine and a huge inspiration for the smart in smart passive income. he was with us in november of 2012 in session #51, but a lot has happened since then and it was great to catch up to see what he was focusing on. we cover a plethora of topics in this session, including his brand new #1 ranked podcast, the tim ferriss show, why he started one, how he's been experimenting with it and what he's been struggling with. we also spend a good portion talking about productivity, experiments and split-tests that he's currently running online, and what he would do if he had to start over in business today. thank you for listening! to get more spi content sent directly to your device as they become available, you can subscribe on itunes or stitcher! also, reviews on itunes are extremely helpful and greatly appreciated! i read each and every one of them, and feel free to share your url there so i can contact you later on and say thanks! and lastly, if you have any questions (or would like answers to previously submitted voicemail questions!), head on over to askpat.com! the bite-sized show just passed 1,000,000 downloads! cheers, and thanks again! today's guest tim ferriss i'm extremely happy to welcome tim ferriss back to the spi podcast! website: fourhourworkweek.com twitter: tferriss you'll learn why tim started a podcast of his own, and his strategy for being different and maximizing his results. the challenges tim has faced since wanting to start a podcast over 2 years ago, and why it took him so long. the important question tim always asks himself does when he acquires a new skill. the 20% of things tim is doing to get 80% of the results for his podcast. the exactly guinea pig experiments tim is running right now and the results he's hoping to find. tim's first look into optimizing email capture on his site, and why he's never “built his list” up until now. why tim did not launch a multi-million dollar sports nutrition business along-side his book, 4-hour body. a simple trick to see if someone is split testing on their website (25:30 mark) tim's pricing strategy, and why he doesn't play “in the middle.” the interesting fact about why people don't take action, even though the recipes for success are right there. the truth about what the 4-hour series is about (and it's not about accomplishing things in 4-hours) the formula for how people can become more productive, today. what tim would do if were to start over. and more! resources note: some of the resources below may be affiliate links, meaning i receive a commission (at no extra cost to you) if you use that link to make a purchase. the blog of tim ferriss the tim ferriss show on itunes tim ferriss on spi podcast session #51 the 4-hour work week [amazon affiliate link] pat's free step-by-step podcasting tutorial audiotechnica atr-2100 podcasting microphone [amazon affiliate link] muse examples on tim's blog gumroad.com boomerang for gmail getting started with smart passive income podcast transcript click the button to the right to download the whole episode in pdf form from start to finish. download the transcript share: next episode: spi 111: the life of a brand new visitor listen now featured episodes we host some of the smartest minds in business tim ferriss startup investor and author of the iconic bestseller, the 4-hour workweek ramit sethi bestselling author and founder of iwillteachyoutoberich.com michael hyatt business leader and bestselling author of free to focus gary vaynerchuk bestselling author, founder of vaynermedia, and popular youtuber chalene johnson fitness icon, motivational speaker, and bestselling author amy porterfield online marketing expert and creator of digital course academy about the show on the show, pat reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources, and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. your host: pat flynn smart passive income podcast & ask pat 2.0 pat is a family man who also happens to be the creator of spi as well as a bestselling author, serial entrepreneur, and startup advisor. want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less