skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more personal development spi’s epic guide to mindset for entrepreneurs share: welcome to my epic guide to mindset and personal development for entrepreneurs! this topic is something i’ve been writing and speaking about for years, ever since i started my own online business back in 2008. october 2018 marked the ten-year anniversary of starting my business—and what a journey it’s been! over that time, i’ve moved from focusing mainly on my own business to becoming a coach and teacher for others getting started in online entrepreneurship. i’ve had the opportunity to guide so many smart, committed people starting their own businesses from scratch. i’ve also seen several of my friends go on to become very successful entrepreneurs—as well as a few who were once very successful but had to start over for some reason and rebuild their success. why is mindset important for entrepreneurs? through all of these experiences, i’ve learned just how important mindset is for the success of an entrepreneur. in fact, i’d say it’s probably the most important thing. you can have the best products, you can have all the right marketing strategies, you can have the right customers . . . but if you don’t have the right mindset, none of that stuff matters. “a lot of times, we have built in beliefs and perceptions about what we are capable of, about what should or should not have happened to us, about the meaning of our lives. we kind of embrace these beliefs and they end up driving a big part of the actions we take on a daily basis. the things we do and do not do for ourselves and others.” that’s a quote from an interview i did with marc and angel chernoff in episode 370 of the spi podcast. to build an effective business, you have to be effective with your time and energy and focus. the honest truth is, you can’t expect to change the lives of others without doing some work on yourself along the way. as marc and angel point out, the beliefs and perceptions you have about what you’re capable of doing can either hold you back or catapult you forward. very often, the biggest barrier standing in the way of our success is us. so how can you get out of your own way and build the business you’re capable of creating? that’s what this epic guide is all about. i encourage you to listen to all of the podcast episode above—it will give you a sense of what’s truly possible when you’re willing to challenge yourself a little bit every day. then read on as we get started on an exciting path that will help you develop the mindset and habits for success in your business! 3 mindset hacks to implement today discover the power of sharing your plans with others learn why focusing on what's not working may be holding you back get started with pat's favorite mind-centering technique get the cheat sheet strategies for cultivating an entrepreneurial mindset get your free downloadpowered by convertkit learn how to grow as an entrepreneur these three powerful strategies are used by successful entrepreneurs to approach each day ready to tackle the challenges of running a business. what to expect in this epic guide to mindset for entrepreneurs over the next ten chapters of this epic guide, i’m going to share the deeper knowledge, habits, and practices that will help you grow into the entrepreneur you want to be. i’ll show you how you can create structure and manage your limited time and energy for maximum effectiveness. i’ll teach you how you can use your mistakes and failures as a launching pad for growth and success. and i’ll talk about the importance of staying humble and connecting with others. here’s what to expect in this epic guide to mindset and personal development: chapter 1 how to start building an entrepreneur’s mindset read more chapter 2 mindset for entrepreneurs: goal setting read more chapter 3 mindset for entrepreneurs: managing time and focus read more chapter 4 mindset for entrepreneurs: work-life balance read more chapter 5 mindset for entrepreneurs: getting and staying motivated read more chapter 6 mindset for entrepreneurs: networking and relationships read more chapter 7 mindset for entrepreneurs: learning from your mistakes read more chapter 8 mindset for entrepreneurs: practicing gratitude and humility read more chapter 9 mindset for entrepreneurs: tips read more chapter 10 mindset for entrepreneurs: tools read more chapter 11 my #1 recommended mindset resource read more ready to go? chapter 1 want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less