i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: mapo tofu waffle recipe mains meat free soup spicy chili crisp white bean and barley stew with kale and eggs posted march 4, 2020 by stephanie the weather is starting to warm up a bit but there’s still a chill in the air, which means soup! i’m always always down for a big bowl of soup and it’s even better if there are things that top it. jammy eggs, crunchy onions, fresh herbs…sometimes i think the reason that i like soup so much is that it’s just a thinly veiled love for toppings that go on top of a soupy vehicle. this soupy vehicle happens to be legit good though. it’s more of a stew consistency, with creamy white beans (from a can, because i’m all about ease) making up the bulk of it and chewy pearl barley helping it up with some hearty heavy lifting. i borrowed the mashing up the beans to thicken the soup from alison roman’s internet viral stew. this is pretty much a take on that stew but with added pearl barley and spicy chili crisp. the pearl barley adds a nice chew and the spicy chili crisp gives it a spicy, super intense umami that’ll make you want to eat more. it’s a beauty, with it’s ruby redness, dark green kale, and jammy egg. can you tell i love this stew?! it’s perfect for those days that you are doing vegetarian but still want to feel a bit naughty. if you don’t have pearl barley, feel free to leave it out. i had some hanging out in the fridge and since i love barley soups, i threw it in to add some of that signature pearl barley bite. what really makes this stew is the chili crisp. if you don’t have any or and don’t want to make chili oil, you can use any other type of flavoring you like. a spoon or two of miso or pesto would be delicious and even if you just went with vegetable broth you’d get the sweetness from the onions and the creaminess of the beans. go wild! soup is your blank slate and you can totally get creative. spicy chili crisp white bean and barley stew with kale and eggs a spicy thick and comforting bean and barley stew with kale and eggs. prep time 15 mins cook time 15 mins total time 30 mins ingredients 1 tbsp neutral oil 2 clovs garlic minced 1/2 onion diced 2-3 tbsp chili crisp or spicy hot sauce of choice 1 can white beans 15 ounces 2 cups vegetable or chicken broth 1 cup cooked pearl barley if desired 2-3 stems kale stemmed and ripped into bite sized pieces 1 cup cilantro roughly chopped salt and freshly ground pepper eggs if desired instructions in a pot, over medium high heat, heat up the oil until hot and shimmery. add the garlic and onion and cook, stirring occasionally, until soft and lightly golden, 3-4 minutes. stir in the chili crisp and beans. cook, until the beans start to break down a bit and are coated with the red oil. use the back of a wooden spoon or spatula to break down a few beans to help thicken the stew. add the broth and cooked barley if using, and bring to a simmer. cook, stirring occasionally, until desired thickness is reached, 15-20 minutes. stir in the torn pieces of kale and cook until just wilted. taste and season with salt and pepper. serve with chopped cilantro and eggs, if desired. 4 comments mary says: march 4, 2020 at 8:29 pm looks so good! i love adding barley to the soups, it gives them much needed texture and chewiness. will have to try out this recipe :) reply stephanie says: march 10, 2020 at 5:35 pm the chew of barley is the best part of barley soups :) reply lizzy says: march 6, 2020 at 4:25 pm this is my husbands favorite dish reply sabrina says: march 14, 2020 at 9:07 am this has everything (legumes, protein and veg) that i eat daily as part of my diet with the chili crisp bonus, have not used it yet, so good excuse to get some, thank you! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website beanschili crispeggskalesoupstewwhite beans one pan creamy dijon mustard mushroom chickenread extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toastread sundubu jjigae/spicy kimchi soft tofu stewread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved