pinch of yum about recipes shop sponsored content hi, and welcome to pinch of yum! hi, my name is lindsay, and pinch of yum is my personal food blog. each month, millions of people visit our website and social media channels where we are constantly sharing flavorful, colorful recipes as well as bits and pieces of our real lifves. after 8 years of producing content, the thing that remains most important to me with pinch of yum is authenticity. when we work with brands who share that value, it becomes very natural for us to use our platform to increase brand exposure, interest, and loyalty in a way that feels like a recommendation from a good friend. want to know more? scroll through to learn more about how we work with brands. let's connect! how we work with brands blog posts best for long-term performance. over time they can be featured on news or entertainment sites, gain virality, or show up in top search results. blog posts are at the core of how we illustrate the story of a brand, and they include beautiful imagery, personal notes on the recipe, and a full-text recipe. monthly users 2.5m instagram videos best for instant exposure to our vast instagram audience. these posts bring a brand’s product to life by featuring a quick and fun step-by-step recipe, and they tend to gain momentum and engagement quickly. followers 651k instagram stories a quick, easy, and highly effective way to reach our audience with a product tutorial or recommendation. of all the content types, this tends to be the most personal way to connect with our audience since they involve a sequence of fun, real-life, narrated videos. average viewers 55k brands we've worked with campaign case studies goal: to increase pasta brand exposure by featuring brand products in a unique, fun way. package included four blog post recipes with videos. 43k average pageviews 155k average video views 90k total engagements goal: to feature land o’lakes products in approachable, unique recipes while increasing brand loyalty. 135k average video views 123k total engagements 50k average pageviews get connected with us! notice: javascript is required for this content. copyright © 2020 • back to top • contact • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest