help guides videos webinars forum contact us sign in sign in contact us forum webinars videos help guides start a free trial followers: asked: updated: followers: live chat: closed live chat: open login see all results contact us more ➝ send choose a topic we think this will help: contact squarespace help still need to contact us? real-time conversation and immediate answers. live chat monday to friday 5am to 8pm eastern time send us a message and read our answer when it’s convenient for you. email contact us by email to get help with this topic. 24 hours a day 7 days a week log into squarespace contact us regresar esta guía no está disponible en español. serás dirigido a la versión en inglés en 5 segundos. follow @squarespacehelp on twitter watch video por favor, ten en cuenta que este departamento solo ofrece soporte en inglés log in for faster support log in continue as guest recover account book now schedule an appointment to speak to one of our onboarding specialists. we currently offer live chat support in english only. to start a live chat, please temporarily change your site's language to english by following these steps. email support in spanish chat in english squarespace 5 help for questions about the legacy squarespace 5 platform, please visit its help center: back regain access to your account if you’ve tried to recover your squarespace account and still can’t access it, we’re here to help. please enter as much information as you can, but if you’re not sure about specific details, provide your best guess. before you begin: • did you already try to recover your account through the login page? we’ll ask you to try that first if you haven’t yet. • for your security, we’ll only provide account details to the account holder. • for help recovering a (google) g suite account, contact us here. email address where we can contact you. what situation led to the trouble accessing your account? urls of any websites connected to the account. enter as many domains as possible. please attach a government-issued id such as a driver’s license, passport, military id, or permanent resident card. request account access a member of our team will respond as soon as possible. http://www.squarespace.com/privacy/ request a refund hear back in 2 business days. if you have a tax exemption certificate, attach it here. .pdf, .png, .jpeg file formats are accepted. use this form to submit a request about exemption from sales tax collected for squarespace payments. enter the details of your request here. if you’re not based in a country or state where we collect taxes, and you believe we shouldn’t collect taxes from you, please explain. if you have feedback about how we collect sales tax, submit it here. your feedback helps make squarespace better, and we review every request we receive. please note that we can't reply individually, but we’ll contact you if we need more details. general sales tax feedback request an exemption from sales tax help and support during the coronavirus pandemic we understand the tremendous challenges the coronavirus pandemic is bringing to people and small businesses across the world. during these uncertain times, squarespace customer support is doing everything we can to answer your questions. we’re here to help our community, and we’re in this together. whether you need financial relief for your subscription or advice on how to set up your website to adjust to the current situation, complete this form, and we’ll look into options for you. cancelling isn’t your only option, but we’ll help you if that’s what you need. a member of our team will respond as quickly as possible. upload a screenshot of the issue you’re having, or the site content you'd like to modify, so we can help you more quickly. learn how to take a screenshot here: http://sqsp.link/w5jigj have a squarespace account? log in i don't have an account can't log in? log in so we can identify you and customise your experience. support during the coronavirus pandemic: we’re working through a high volume of requests. we’re here to help, but response times are longer than usual. # please use this form to submit a request regarding a deceased squarespace customer’s site. our deepest condolences go out to you and your family during this time, and we appreciate your patience as we work through your request. due to privacy concerns and restrictions, we unfortunately can't provide you with administrative control of the site. however, if an immediate family member or legal representative completes the form below, we may be able to grant billing permissions so the site can remain active or cancel any active subscriptions. note that billing permissions don't include the ability to edit the site's content. you can read more about this here. a note regarding squarespace 5 sites: squarespace 5, our legacy platform, doesn't allow permissions to be edited. however, we can cancel or remove the site. submit a request about a deceased customer’s website url of the site connected to the deceased user’s account any comments, requests, or concerns we should know? please attach the following documents: • an image of your government-issued id, such as a driver’s license, passport, military id, or permanent resident card. this is for proof of your relationship to the deceased. • an image of the deceased person’s obituary, death certificate, and/or other documents. • any additional documents, such as legal representation documentation. delete my account before you request to delete your squarespace account, please review this guide to: • understand what happens when we delete your account. • make sure it’s what you really want to do. • take a few steps to prepare. for example, you’ll need to cancel all subscriptions first. once you submit your request, you’ll receive an email from our team to verify your account access and confirm that this request wasn’t made in error. delete my account request verification form before you provide your government issued id below, did you know that you can submit a request to delete your account to squarespace here (without providing your id)? this form is only for people who have lost access to: (1) their squarespace account; or (2) the email address associated with their squarespace account. please upload a copy of some form of government issued id (i.e. driver's license or passport). you may blur out any sensitive information before you upload. email address for communication regarding your request upload id squarespace help guides in-depth articles and videos on everything squarespace videos video workshops to help you get started or finished community forum get help from our community on advanced customizations. explore the forum webinars sign up for an interactive session where our experts walk you through squarespace basics. join a webinar can't find what you're looking for? we'll help you find the answer or connect with an advisor. contact us english (us) ↓ select your language deutsch español français (france) italiano português support ↓ contact us service status @squarespacehelp squarespace 5 community ↓ forum hire a designer webinars blog developers ↓ api docs circle developer platform resources ↓ website templates website design domain name search online stores website marketing terms of service privacy policy