home squarespace about careers open source [placeholder] jan 24 jan 24 the nuts and bolts with franklin angulo squarespace engineering the nuts and bolts” is a reoccurring q&a with squarespace engineers. questions are compiled by their peers to guarantee we get right to the good stuff. nov 20 nov 20 checkout surveys: a data science approach omar o. abboud squarespace’s data science team helps stakeholders across the company make better strategic decisions using data. marketing attribution, one major focus of the team’s work, is how we answer the question: “how much credit does each form of marketing deserve for a sale or conversion?” oct 4 oct 4 how we talk about a/b test results laura elsener a/b tests can help organizations make better decisions, but we often only hear about the “success stories.” what about the a/b tests that don't have flashy outcomes? here's how squarespace communicates about a/b tests to ensure we learn from all tests. sep 11 sep 11 the power of “yes, if”: iterating on our rfc process tanya reilly rfcs, also called design documents, let us describe software designs before implementation. but how do you make sure that rfcs get deep review and are seen by the right people? how do you help reviewers catch problems in a system’s design? we’ve been iterating on our rfc review process and here’s what we’ve come up with. aug 16 aug 16 performance tuning postgres within our tls infrastructure golam kawsar at squarespace, the edge team manages the tls infrastructure, which handles the life cycle of millions of ssl certificates used by our customers. this makes us one of the largest users of let’s encrypt, a free, automated, and open certificate authority (ca). jul 24 jul 24 creating a code review culture, part 2: code reviewers john turner this is part two of a two-part series. in part one we looked at organizational culture, and how code authors can make their code easier to review. in this final part, we’ll look at some strategies for performing more thorough and empathetic code reviews. jul 9 jul 9 creating a code review culture, part 1: organizations and authors john turner code review is one of the most effective tools we have as engineers to safeguard the quality of our code. in this series of posts, we describe what a strong code review culture looks like and how to create it. may 7 may 7 the nuts and bolts with polina giralt squarespace engineering “the nuts and bolts” is a reoccurring q&a with squarespace engineers. questions are compiled by their peers to guarantee we get right to the good stuff. mar 28 mar 28 building the squarespace image filters adam parks, dave myers, yannick guillemot at the end of 2018, we made the decision to build our own image editor in order to give our customers essential tools and an intuitive experience. we just released a second version, which has several new powerful, high-quality adjustments including undo/redo and a suite of custom filters that are unmistakably squarespace. this is how we built the filters. mar 14 mar 14 3 kinds of good tech debt jon thornton what if tech debt wasn’t always an accident, caused by incorrect assumptions and unexpected circumstances? how would you spend a tech debt mortgage? dec 7 dec 7 can friendly competition lead to better models? mark giangreco here on squarespace’s strategy and analytics team, we build models that predict customer lifetime value, forecast customer service demand, and even determine how much we should spend on those ubiquitous squarespace ads you hear on your favorite podcast. nov 21 nov 21 the nuts and bolts with ed bridges squarespace engineering “the nuts and bolts” is a reoccurring q&a with squarespace engineers. questions are compiled by their peers to guarantee we get right to the good stuff. load more products domains websites online stores g suite mobile apps logos pricing feature index login company about careers customers press & media service status terms of service privacy policy contact us community help & support answers workshops specialists developers circle follow squarespace blog engineering blog instagram facebook twitter google plus