squarespace logo account dashboard log out products create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain templates resources squarespace blog help guides webinars forum log in log out get started squarespace logo products templates resources log in account dashboard log out get started create a website overview award-winning templates website analytics connected services hire an expert sell anything overview ecommerce templates sell products sell services schedule appointments new checkout, payment, & taxes point of sale extensions new build your brand overview email marketing stories new get a domain find a domain transfer your domain squarespace blog → stories and solutions for the modern entrepreneur help guides → in-depth guides about the platform, our services, and how to get started webinars → free, online sessions where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills forum → squarespace forum is an online community for squarespace users and professionals to discuss best practices and seek advice about us helping creative ideas succeed careers join our team meet squarespace our team powered by people locations our offices about us careers our team locations about us careers our team locations at squarespace, the world’s most talented engineers, designers, and thought leaders are shaping the future of online publishing. open positions we’re looking for people to join the team who are as excited as we are to help build the platform that empowers the future generation of creators to be successful online. meet squarespace perks and benefits relax, we've got you covered we take care of our employees in more ways than one. our competitive benefits package includes premium medical, dental, and vision coverage for employees and their dependent children. we also offer up to 20 weeks of paid family leave, fertility and adoption benefits, daily gourmet lunches and snacks, and more. work-life balance we believe that quality time outside the office is vital to our employees’ satisfaction at work. that’s why our flexible pto plan encourages team members to take time off so they can come back refreshed. employees also get two free lifetime squarespace sites to pursue their creative passions and side hustles. stay informed we’re dedicated to ensuring all employees have the information they need to do their jobs well. our monthly all hands meetings, email newsletters, and ceo office hours are just a few of the programs we run to bring our three offices together and share key aspects of the business across the entire organization. we value our people we’re serious about sharing in squarespace’s successes. all employees receive an equity package in the company as part of their total compensation, and we match up to 4% of a team member’s annual salary in 401(k) (us) or pension (ireland) contributions. we give back we anonymously match any donation our employees make (up to $/€ 600) so they can support the organizations they care about most—times two. we also arrange programming for team members to volunteer at specialized customer workshops and community activities. live it up one benefit of having amazing coworkers is enjoying each other’s company, and we make up some good excuses to have fun together. squarespace’s weekly catered happy hours are a great way to connect with coworkers and unwind after the week. throughout the year, we host programming ranging from crafting to trivia and customer markets. during the summer, we throw family-friendly events and activities, and our holiday parties have been known to get fancy. squarespace logo squarespace logo ↓ ↓ products ↓ website templates websites domains online stores point of sale extensions marketing tools email marketing scheduling stories professional email logo maker premium plan pricing feature list customers ↓ featured small businesses photographers bloggers artists restaurants musicians weddings students company ↓ about careers our brand press & media newsroom terms of service privacy policy contact us timeline imprint community ↓ help & support hire an expert forum webinars developer platform circle follow ↓ newsroom squarespace blog creative blog engineering blog service status instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter