transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support staff dorjee tseten executive director dorjee tseten was born in a tibetan refugee settlement in india. he served as the president of the regional tibetan youth congress baroda chapter during his university studies and developed his skills as a trainer at the tibetan center for conflict resolution before joining the staff of students for a free tibet-india in 2009. he served as sft india’s national director for four years and joined the sft international team as asia director in 2013. traveling to more than ten countries in four continents to facilitate training, deliver talks, and wage campaigns, he has trained hundreds of students and youth to take nonviolent action for tibet. in 2016, dorjee tseten was elected as a member of the tibetan parliament-in-exile. + read more pema doma international grassroots director pema began her social justice journey in 2010 as a youth community organizer with boston mobilization working in solidarity for racial, economic and environmental justice campaigns. in 2014, pema spent 7 months teaching english at the tibetan children’s village vocational training center in selaqui, india, where she enjoyed getting to know her students and watching cricket. pema’s first official role within the tibetan freedom movement was in 2016 as a campaigns intern for sft international in new york. after her internship, pema co-founded an sft chapter at her university and served as the chapter’s first president. as an undergraduate student, pema also interned with us congressman jim mcgovern and us senator elizabeth warren. in 2019, pema officially rejoined the sft international team as the usa grassroots coordinator! pema is currently a master’s candidate at american university studying economics. in addition to her work with sft, pema also spends her time advocating for a tibetan flag emoji #inserttibetanflag and has an appreciation for burritos and the boston celtics. + read more tenzin sonam operations manager tenzin sonam was born and raised in india and attended tibetan children’s village school. after completing his studies, he worked at the tibetan chamber of commerce in his position as executive director. in 2009, tenzin joined students for a free tibet india as the development director. during his time with sft india, he helped start their merchandise project. he has also participated in sft free tibet! action camp and tibetan action institute’s lhakar academy: the tibetan school for leadership and change. tenzin sonam received his bachelor of commerce from pune university and master of business administration from the indian institute of planning & management. + read more jacob kessler communications coordinator jacob is a 2018 graduate of hunter college where he double majored in political science and chinese. after graduating, he worked as an intern at china labor watch and outright action international. before joining sft, jacob worked as a paralegal at aaron halegua, pllc on a case representing workers who were trafficked to the us by chinese companies. he previously worked at sft as a campaigns intern in 2017. outside of work, jacob is a volunteer english teacher and loves to study languages. + read more tsewang lhamo graphic designer tsewang lhamo is a graphic design student at baruch college in new york city. she became interested in graphic design while studying art and illustration in high school. while in college, she co-founded yakpo collective, an art collective dedicated to the tibetan contemporary art movement. after curating a tibetan contemporary art exhibition in july of 2019, she became involved with sft through art for tibet, where she donated an original graphic illustration for the fundraiser. her tibetan diaspora experience is a source of inspiration for her work. aside from graphic design, she enjoys gardening and studying plants. + read more dechen kelden development coordinator dechen kelden is a kalmyk mongolian and tibetan activist and community organizer. she comes to sft with years of fundraising and program development experience as a co-founder of the kalmyk youth coalition and core organizer of the tibetans of mixed heritage group. she is passionate about youth empowerment, cultural preservation and the inherent and fundamental right to human rights everywhere. dechen is a long time supporter of sft, as a former president of sft chapters throughout middle school, high school and later at sarah lawrence college where she studied social psychology, focusing on diasporic communities who have experienced genocide and injustice. + read more national network staff tenzin lhawang interim sft canada national coordinator tenzin lhawang who is on sft canada's board of directors is the current the interim national coordinator until the national director position is filled. + read more network website rinzin choedon sft india national director rinzin has always been very active and dedicated when it comes to serving the community and helping others. she’s a passionate and dynamic tibetan activist who believes in the power of youth and strategic nonviolence. rinzin is also passionate about animal rights, environment, social justice and gender equality. she did her schooling from tibetan children's village school. she has bachelors and masters degree in english literature from miranda house college, delhi university. she joined students for a free tibet india as the grassroots director in 2015, before becoming the national director in 2019, and has traveled extensively across india visiting our chapters, holding numerous trainings, and inspiring youth. + read more network website students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×