skip to content skip to footer nia shanks health and fitness information that doesn't suck newsletter start here starter guide finally get results course articles all articles audio articles about shop books workout programs apparel login my profile you’re here for a reason do you know what it’s like to feel consumed by your health and fitness regimen? you try a restrictive diet you must revolve your life around, and the only thing you get from that experience is frustration, or a bad relationship with food. have you tried what seems like countless diets and workout programs … and yet nothing seems to work? or perhaps you’re confused from the surplus of conflicting information. or everything seems too complicated so you haven’t even started. want to finally build (and maintain) a fit, strong, confident body without obsessive eating habits or long, grueling workouts that leave you exhausted? want to actually feel great about yourself today and not “someday”? dang right you do. welcome. here you’ll find bs-free information that will help you achieve the results you want, feel great about yourself, and create a lifestyle around food and fitness you actually enjoy. this is an empowering lifestyle, not a temporary fad. get started now. what should you read first? there are hundreds of articles here, so let’s get you started with the most popular ones. exercise is not punishment and you do not have to earn your food 13 ways women can be more, not less the mind-boggling bullshit of health and fitness 18 uncomfortable truths about nutrition, health, and fitness start there and then move on to some great goal-specific articles below. what do you need help with? most new readers want to lose fat, get stronger, or simply develop a health and fitness lifestyle that doesn’t dominate their life. many want to escape the obsessive habits they’ve developed from prior fad diets and workout regimens. to get you going, check out the most popular articles for specific goals: strength training workouts first, discover the many benefits strength training has to offer women (and it’s way more than just changing how your body looks). you’ll also get some sample workouts. learn to lift: the beginner guide to strength training the women’s beginner strength training guide the busy woman’s guide to strength training lift like a girl dumbbell workout program how-to articles and videos want to know how to properly and safely perform some of the best exercises? here you go. how to squat how to deadlift (and why everyone should) how to perform the bench press and standing press how to perform the barbell row and chin-ups how to eat healthy (without losing your sanity) eating healthy should be about consistency, not perfection. it should be flexible, not rigid. it should make room for your favorite foods, not exclude them. it should fit into your life, not require you to revolve your life around it. here’s the simple guide that shows you how to eat healthy eating in moderation: how to do it right the huge problem with guilty-pleasure foods bodyweight workouts and exercises want workouts you can do at home, or want to start with bodyweight-only workouts? here you go. 7 of the best bodyweight exercises (and easier to more difficult variations) how to perform assisted pull-ups and dips lifestyle there’s more than workouts and other health and fitness information here. find some of the most popular lifestyle articles here: the ultimate guide on how not to care what other people think and live the life you want you owe it to yourself to give fewer shits one simple hack to stop screwing yourself over achieving goals is hard and most people fail. here’s how to (finally) succeed. want even more? i’m sure glad you asked! join the newsletter below for the latest articles. never miss a thing! there’s always new information being posted. make sure you’re the first to know when new content is available. subscribe to the newsletter below (your information will never be sold and you will never be spammed). you’ll also receive a short email-course to jump-start your journey and insider-only information not shared anywhere else. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. footer if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. fields marked with a * are required. join the revolution get updates, insider-only information, and a free gift. if you are a human and are seeing this field, please leave it blank. facebook instagram twitter youtube search this website © 2020 nia shanks · privacy policy · disclaimer newsletter you’re here for a reason contact store