skip to content college info geek start here! menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search start here! hi there! i’m thomas frank, the founder of college info geek. i started this site when i was in college, but despite the name, it’s meant as a resource for all students. if you’re looking for ways to study more effectively, be more competitive in your career field, or become more productive in general, you’re in the right place. among other things, you’ll learn how to: hack your studying. learn more in less time, study and work more efficiently, and teach yourself the things you can’t learn in class. get the jobs you want. build a great personal brand, promote yourself effectively, and forge useful relationships. build a solid financial base. pay off your student debt, learn how to manage your money well, and start saving for the future. want to know where you should start? well, here’s something i think you’ll enjoy. i wrote a free book called 10 steps to earning awesome grades (while studying less), which compiles the years of practice and research i’ve done in order to answer many of the questions students have about studying and learning. the book covers topics including: defeating procrastination building an excellent time/task management system taking better notes reading textbooks efficiently …and more. i released it in january of 2015 and it’s been downloaded by over 300,000 students so far. i hope you find it useful! to get a copy, enter your email below and sign up for the college info geek newsletter: in addition to sending you the book (and a couple of other bonuses, like my personal graduation planning spreadsheet), i’ll keep you updated on each week’s new videos, podcast episodes, and blog posts. i block spammers harder than terry crews wearing odor blocker body wash, so don’t worry about getting any of that from me. check out the youtube channel you’ll find a ton of articles and podcast episodes on this site – but my real passion right now is creating videos. i’ve found that there aren’t many channels on youtube that provide useful advice on studying, building strong habits, and building a remarkable college experience – so i’m building one. as a lover of video games and geek culture, i also strive to make them entertaining and full of references that keep things fresh. here’s one of the more popular videos: if you’d like to see all my videos, check out the youtube channel! the best posts! right now, there are 713 posts in the archives. that’s a lot to go through, so i’ve created a few lists of posts that you should start with if you’re new. let’s go! the cornerstones these are my two “general college tips” list posts, and out of everything here, they are the most jam-packed with college hacking knowledge. 42 things i learned freshman year (intro level – a quick, concise read) 27 college tips i learned sophomore year (boss level – this one’s ridiculously in-depth) building the willpower to improve yourself some of the most common questions i get deal with how to gain the willpower to put all this stuff into action. those questions are incredibly important because: “the great aim of education is not knowledge but action.” – herbert spencer without the willpower to take action, nothing else here can truly help you. how do you actually get motivated? if that’s your struggle, watch this short video: …and then read these. how to use habitrpg to build strong habits and hack your motivation develop a morning ritual study and work more effectively read these if you’re looking to study better in less time, increase your productivity, and hack the way you work. the ultimate guide to acing your finals ace your next exam: 10 revision and test-taking tips how to remember more of what you learn with spaced repetition textbook reading strategies for ultra-efficient learning how to use the feynman technique to learn faster (with examples) build concrete productive habits through conditional “if-then” logic how to finish a huge assignment overnight learning disability resources page check out more of the best posts in this category at the studying/productivity hub. promoting yourself and landing an awesome job if you want to know how to promote yourself, build professional relationships, and get the jobs you want, read these guides. the ultimate guide to building a personal website 97 actions you should take to become the person companies want to hire 5 things you can do today to make yourself 2 billion percent more hireable how to rock the career fair and make recruiters love you build a personal brand you can be proud of check out more of the best posts in this category at the career hub. student loan obliteration and financial freedom college is at least partly about building a stable financial future for yourself. read these articles to learn how to pay off your debt and build wealth. 39 ways you can cut the cost of college the ultimate guide to budgeting in college how i paid off $14,431 in student loans in 6 months – before graduating the true, no-b.s. cost of student loans the comprehensive guide to finding the cheapest textbooks check out more of the best posts in this category at the personal finance hub. the podcast sometimes i gotta get on the mic, speak the truth, and leave my name. if you need some great audio content for your next jog or roadtrip, check these out. deep work: how to focus and resist distractions (ep. 100) how exercise improves your brain (ep. 105) the worst thing you can do for your productivity (ep. 91) how to stand out if you have a low gpa (ep. 116) study advice from a medical student with ryan nguyen (ep. 26) resume tips and how to land your first job with brad karsh (ep. 40) how to win scholarships with shanice miller of debt-free college grad (ep. 34) if you enjoy these picks, you can also see a complete listing of all episodes at the podcast page. this should be a good start to your journey through college info geek. if you have an questions or just want to talk, hit me up on twitter: follow @tomfrankly want to know more about me and the story behind college info geek? check out the about page. more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.