english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get started free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in email templates turn your best and most repetitive sales emails into templates you can personalize, optimize, and share with your team. start creating email templates today for free get up and running in seconds, and save time by never drafting the same email more than once. get started free works with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows spend more time selling and less time drafting repetitive emails. send template emails from inside your inbox. access a library of built-in templates designed for every step of your customer’s journey, or create your own from scratch. and your templates are always one click away inside your inbox – whether you use outlook or office 365 for windows, or gmail. you’ll save hours when you can send your most repetitive emails in seconds. optimize email templates with real-time metrics. real-time metrics show you which of your templates are performing, and which ones need attention now. your open rates tell you which subject lines your leads and customers can’t help but click. and your click rates tell you which buttons, links, and attachments they explore. you can see metrics across all of your templates, for an individual sales rep, and over any time period – it’s all there in your dashboard. share your best templates with your whole team. close more deals by sharing your best email templates with your entire team. see which email templates are sent, opened, and engaged with the most to uncover your time-saving and high-performing templates. then give your team access to these templates inside of their inboxes. now everyone has the best email for any situation at their fingertips. connect with the apps your team already uses hubspot sales works seamlessly with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows. access all of your email templates from inside your inbox, personalize them in seconds, then hit send. now you’re sending more and better emails in a fraction of the time. the all-in-one sales software your team will actually use email sequences put prospecting on autopilot to keep them from slipping through the cracks and free up more time to close warm leads. email templates turn your most effective and repetitive sales emails into templates you can access inside your inbox and share with your team. email tracking know the second a lead opens an email, clicks a link, or downloads an attachment, and surface the most relevant notifications to the top of your activity feed. then send a perfectly timed follow-up. email scheduling schedule emails to go out at a specified date and time, or use machine learning to deliver emails to prospects when they’re most likely to engage. documents optimize your documents and personalize your pitch by seeing who views each document and which pages they spend time on. meetings share a link that gives leads the power to choose a time that works for everyone. works with google calendar, office 365, and hubspot crm. live chat connect directly with prospects when they’re actively engaging with your website. route chat conversations to the right salesperson to build better relationships and close more deals. calling queue up a list of sales calls, make them from inside your browser, log calls to your crm automatically, and record calls with a single click. sales automation use workflows to automate manual, time-consuming tasks: rotate leads, create deals and tasks, and more. reporting out-of-the-box and customizable reports and dashboards allow you to share high-level business metrics with executives, or dig into more granular metrics for your sales team. predictive lead scoring prioritize your outreach based on a prospect’s likelihood to become a customer so you don’t waste time trying to qualify poor-fit leads. salesforce integration bi-directional sync with salesforce means a record of every email, meeting, call, and more is at your fingertips. start using hubspot's sales software today reach more leads, book more meetings, and close more deals with less work. get started free works with gmail, g suite, and outlook or office 365 for windows increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy