transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support start a chapter sft is built on grassroots, community organizing. we encourage everyone to start a chapter in their community to pave a road to a free and independent tibet. only with the involvement of diverse, local groups is our mission possible. you can make a difference in the tibetan freedom movement. by building an active community around you, you give tibetans inside tibet hope for freedom and independence. it’s simple — start your own chapter. 5 easy steps usa chapter registration international chapter registration step 1: register register with us here. once you and a couple of friends decide to take on the challenge to defend human rights and freedom in tibet, register with us as a chapter. that puts us in contact with you and we are always ready to help. step 2: pay chapter dues pay your yearly chapter dues. if you cannot afford the $100 registration, apply for a waiver from the fee. as sft is a grassroots organization, we are heavily dependent on financial support from individual members and chapters. once your fees are paid or waived, we will send you a chapter starter kit with all kinds of fun goodies – including stickers, buttons, brochures, and access to a chapter manual. step 3: official recognition gain official recognition at your school. the process and deadlines are different for each school, so make sure you research it! step 4: table table at your school and around your community. tabling is a really easy way to get more members and word of mouth going about the tibetan cause. you can find materials to print and handout in our action kit. step 5: organize an event organize your first event! try a simple interest meeting or something fun like tibetan dinner or a movie screening. these social events will get the momentum going on your new sft chapter. students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×