wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » start here start here welcome to wpbeginner, the largest free wordpress resource site for beginners. my name is syed balkhi, and i started wpbeginner in 2009 with a single goal: create wordpress tutorials that are easy to understand. something that i wish i had when i was first starting out. who wpbeginner is for? wpbeginner started out as a resource site for non-techy users. we believe in helping small businesses compete with big guys. if you have ever asked yourself: how can i build a wordpress site? how can i do ______ in wordpress? which wordpress plugin should i pick for doing _______? how do i fix ______ wordpress error? what are the best practices to follow in wordpress? or if you have any other questions about wordpress, then wpbeginner is the place to be. at wpbeginner, you will find a: wpbeginner blog – this is where we publish our wordpress tutorials, how tos, and step by step tutorials. wpbeginner videos – these step by step videos will help you learn wordpress fast. wpbeginner dictionary – the best place for beginners to start and familiarize themselves with the wordpress lingo. wpbeginner blueprint – get a behind the scenes look at the plugins, tools, and services we use on wpbeginner. wpbeginner deals – exclusive discounts on wordpress products and services for wpbeginner users. wpbeginner content is 100% free, and we are always looking for finding more ways to be helpful. let’s take a look at some of our most helpful wordpress tutorials: how to start a wordpress blog how to start an online store how to start a podcast with wordpress how to find the best wordpress theme how to choose the best wordpress plugins how to fix the most common wordpress errors how to choose the best wordpress hosting how to improve wordpress security need help with something else? wpbeginner has thousands of articles, and we likely have an answer to your question. many of our users use google to find articles on wpbeginner related to their issue. simply add keywords to describe what you are looking for and then add wpbeginner at the end of it. you can also send us your questions using our contact form, and we will answer your question directly. how to join wpbeginner? wpbeginner is free, and you can visit our website at anytime. here is how to make sure that you never miss any of our new wordpress tutorials: join our email list (370,000+ subscribers) connect with our wordpress experts and other motivated website creators in our free facebook group: wpbeginner engage – wordpress help for non-techies! subscribe to our youtube channel join us on twitter and facebook thank you for visiting wpbeginner. we look forward to helping you learn wordpress. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.