skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me start here hey guys! i realize stumbling upon another travel blog can be overwhelming, so i created this page to highlight some of my most popular articles and travel resources. but first, here’s a little more about me: my name is drew binsky — i’m a 28 year old daily travel video maker, blogger and social media influencer with more than 5 million combined followers and over 1 billion video views. i grew up in scottsdale, arizona and graduated from the university of wisconsin-madison with a degree in economics in 2013. my eyes were first opened up to the world of travel when i studied abroad in prague my junior year of college, so i decided to teach english in korea immediately after i graduated beacuse i wanted to keep traveling. from day 1 in korea, i started my first blog, the hungry partier, which enabled me to travel full-time and making a living online when i left seoul. i started this blog in june 2016, which is a more personal and professional site to document my travels. i have been to 189 countries since 2012, and i’m on a mission to visit every country on earth before turning 30. i’m also a single-handicap golfer, bizarre food eater, and i do handstands everywhere i visit. my ultimate goal with this blog is to inspire and encourage people to step out of their comfort zones and have maximal amounts of fun on the road. if you want to know more about me, then please read my about me page. i also offer a trip planning service to give you advice for your upcoming trips! the following are the most popular posts & videos on my site. hope you enjoy! videos: – this video will change your perception of north korea – what can $10 get you in bangladesh? – i spent $96.47 in 10 countries & got 61 things posts: – how i got started with traveling and making a living on the road – 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries – how i afford to travel – why i’ve eaten mcdonald’s in 50+ countries – what’s in my backpack? a complete list pages: – funny & crazy travel stories – teaching english in korea – blogging & social media advice for aspiring travel bloggers snapchat stories: – a lovely day at machu picchu – skydiving in melbourne, australia – milford sound fjords in new zealand – scuba diving & sunshine in gili islands, indonesia – most bizarre foods i’ve ever eaten – scuba diving in vanuatu – attending the olympics games in rio – eating mcdonald’s in my 50th country – brail – a day in the life of a snapchatter the best place to reach me is on social media (all platforms @drewbinsky) – i encourage you to reach out and say hello! thanks and happy travels! recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.