wordpress.com menu features themes plans blog support sign up log in stats a live look at activity across wordpress.com this is a collection of stats from around wordpress.com that we’ve decided to share with the world. interested in your own stats? every wordpress.com blog includes an integrated stats system, also available for self-hosted wordpress sites with jetpack.the following stats are for blogs we host here on wordpress.com, both on subdomains and their own domains, or externally-hosted blogs that use our jetpack plugin and are part of our network. how many people are reading wordpress.com sites? over 409 million people view more than 20 billion pages each month. how many posts are being published? users produce about 70 million new posts and 77 million new comments each month. who publishes on wordpress.com? from techcrunch to ted, cnn, and spotify, wordpress.com users span a broad range. check out more notable sites at wordpress.com discover. you can get our latest news and announcements at the wordpress.com blog. where in the world is wordpress.com used? we host wordpress blogs written in over 120 languages. below is a breakdown of the top 10 languages: english: 71% spanish: 4.7% indonesian: 2.4% portuguese (brazil): 2.3% french: 1.5% russian: 1.3% german: 1.2% italian: 1% turkish: 0.7% dutch: 0.6% frequently asked questions what topics do people write about on wordpress.com? all of them! check out our tags to get a glimpse (other languages: spanish, indonesian, french, german…). will wordpress continue to grow? it shows no signs of slowing down. millions of new wordpress sites are created every day — for small businesses and big businesses, news organizations and bloggers. what’s the difference between wordpress.com and wordpress.org? wordpress.com is a service that hosts wordpress sites, powered by automattic. wordpress.org is a community where people work on the open source wordpress software. it’s also where that software can be downloaded to be run on your own web server. read this support document for more information. get started create your own website do more features store themes developers community support forums wordcamps wordpress.org company f • t our story privacy terms of service matt mullenweg we are hiring php developers. join us! from our blogs broken all-time favorites retrospective a treasure trove of archives: our absolute favorite posts an automattic experiment