skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged static sites it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 20 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. link march 27, 2020 emergency website kit shared by robin rendle here’s an outstanding idea from max böck. he’s created a boilerplate project for building websites that fit within a single http request. this is extremely important for websites that contain critical information for public safety. as max writes: in cases of emergency, many organizations need a quick way to publish critical information. but exisiting (cms) websites are often unable to handle sudden spikes in traffic. … read article “emergency website kit” our notes / read at mxb.dev eleventy netlify static sites link february 4, 2020 how to create a headless wordpress site on the jamstack shared by geoff graham just this morning, chris shared a streamlined way to get a static site up and running with netlify. as it happens, sarah and i also wrote up a little something that expands that idea where a static site can pull content from wordpress using the rest api. using vue, nuxt, axios, and netlify, it's possible to get both the performance and continuous integration benefits of jamstack with the powerful publishing and editing features of a cms. it's really … read article “how to create a headless wordpress site on the jamstack” our notes / read at www.smashingmagazine.com jamstack netlify nuxt static sites wordpress article november 15, 2019 jamstack cmss have finally grown up! author brian rinaldi 1 comment go to comments this article is based on brian's presentation at connect.tech 2019. slides with speaker notes from that presentation are available to download. in my experience, developers generally find the benefits of the jamstack easy to comprehend. sites are faster because the resources are static and served from a cdn. sites are more secure because there is no framework, application server or database to compromise. development and deployment can be optimized because all of the pieces that make up … read article “jamstack cmss have finally grown up!” cms headless cms jamstack static sites article october 17, 2019 jamstack tools and the spectrum of classification author chris coyier 11 comments go to comments with the wonderful world of jamstack getting big, all the categories of services and tools that help it along are as important as ever. there are static site generators, headless cmss, and static file hosts. i think those classifications are handy, and help conversations along. but there is a point where nuance is necessary and these classification buckets get a little leaky. … read article “jamstack tools and the spectrum of classification” headless cms jamstack static sites article october 4, 2019 using github template repos to jump-start static site projects author tyler williams 3 comments go to comments if you’re getting started with static site generators, did you know you can use github template repositories to quickly start new projects and reduce your setup time?… read article “using github template repos to jump-start static site projects” github github templates static sites article september 18, 2019 a comparison of static form providers author silvestar bistrović 13 comments go to comments let’s attempt to coin a term here: "static form provider." you bring your html <form></form>, but don’t worry about the back-end processing that makes it work. there are a lot of these services out there! static form providers do all tasks like validating, storing, sending notifications, and integrating with other apis. it’s lovely when you can delegate big responsibilities like this. the cost? typically a monthly or annual subscription, except for a few providers and limited plans. the cost … read article “a comparison of static form providers” forms static sites sponsored article september 12, 2019 fast static sites with netlify and anymod in about 10 minutes, we'll set up a workflow that makes static sites dead simple.… read article “fast static sites with netlify and anymod” netlify static sites article july 22, 2019 a beginner’s journey to launching a website author josh 9 comments go to comments in september 2018, i was just a few months into my journey of learning web development. as i'm sure is the case with many new developers, it was a big task for me to learn not only the basic skills required, but also keeping current with the fast-moving industry. just as i was getting to the level where it felt as though i could build a simple website, i started to realize that it was only the first step. opening … read article “a beginner’s journey to launching a website” domains gatsby hosting netlify static sites article june 14, 2019 components, yo. author chris coyier 6 comments go to comments i see vuepress just went 1.0. explained simply, it's a static site generator based on vue. but of course, you work in vue, which means you work in components. all the modern javascript frameworks are component-based. even when they disagree with each other about specific things (like how svelte requires compilation), they all seem to agree on the model of working in components. react is all components. a popular static site generator for react is next.js. … read article “components, yo.” components javascript framework static sites vuepress article may 23, 2019 the power of serverless v2.0! (now an open-source gatsby site hosted on netlify) author chris coyier 5 comments go to comments i created a website called the power of serverless for front-end developers over at thepowerofserverless.info a little while back while i was learning about that whole idea. i know a little more now but still have an endless amount to learn. still, i felt like it was time to revamp that site a bit. for one thing, just like our little conferences website, the new site is a subdomain of this very site: https://serverless.css-tricks.com/… read article “the power of serverless v2.0! (now an open-source gatsby site hosted on netlify)” jamstack netlify serverless static sites 1 2 older how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers