insights solutions market research market analysis & forecasts company data & profiles studies & whitepapers data analytics rankings & benchmarks about us contact us statista research & analysis more than just statistics providing individualized solutions that help you better understand your markets, customers and data latests news and projects live update: covid-19 disease pandemic – statistics & facts as the pandemic is running its course, increasing attention is being paid to the potential economic impacts of the coronavirus outbreak. we have prepared a landing page with live information on the spread of the virus, as well as, its economic impact. the page features a series of dossierplus presents the most important information and the latest updates on the global covid-19 outbreak. based on the most current data available, the dossierplus include the main characteristics of the pandemic as well as its political and economic effects. learn more covid-19 – trend whitepaper this whitepaper looks at the economic impact of the novel coronavirus and attempts to gage possible global consequences, especially in the automotive and tourism sector. compared to previous estimates, combined sales of passenger cars and motorcycles in china are estimated to decline by 69%. we estimate that revenues of the travel & tourism market will decrease by 17% worldwide as an impact of the novel coronavirus, resulting in a reduction of worldwide revenue in travel and tourism from us$685.1 billion in 2019 to us$568.6 billion in 2020. learn more economic impact study of the pokémon go festival the report is about the positive economic effects of the pokémon go festivals on the host cities. the first study was conducted for the dortmund city festival in 2019, and statista aims to undertake more studies on the upcoming niantic festivals to be hosted globally in 2020. this report reveals that there had been a 49-million-euro economic benefit to the dortmund and rhein-ruhr metropolitan region, as well as other positive commercial and social effects. learn more release: e-cigarettes segment the tobacco market now has a new segment: the e-cigarettes. it includes: revenue and cagr of e-cigarettes products for 113 countries forecast until 2023 segment report learn more statista trend compass 2020 our world is changing, driven by technological, economic, social and cultural trends. these trends influence consumer behavior and needs, to which companies must respond. the statista trend compass 2020 highlights 12 key global trends and examines the associated economic potential and customer acceptance. the report also contains exciting examples of innovations that already exist and are being implemented. learn more 2019 in numbers this dossierplus summarizes major events of 2019 and captures in numbers trends that characterized the year and had a global impact. the selection of topics was based on the analysis of newscasts and then cross-referenced with google trends. ultimately, the topics identified were grouped into three main categories: politics, economy, and casualties. learn more ecommercedb now includes south america get detailed insights into the south american ecommerce market. besides argentina, brazil, and mexico, many other countries are waiting to be discovered by you. learn more global sports sponsorship market this study by statista analyses direct corporate financial endorsement and sponsoring income received by athletes, leagues & teams, federations, governing bodies, and sporting events. the study quantifies the global sports sponsoring market, as well as, the shares received by men and women sports. learn more global economic outlook score q3 2019 the statista geo-score is a unique indicator of economic sentiment that reflects a holistic picture of perceived economic change. statista and atheneum survey around 2,000 leading experts from 23 countries and various industries every quarter to assess the current and future economic situation. learn more new: country outlook the new outlooks provide fast and comprehensive insights. access more than 70 current figures and forecasts of economic and social developments in more than 150 countries. the key figures are based on extensive analyzes and research on society and the economy. learn more leading companies trust statista research & analysis our individualized solutions market research as a full-service market research firm, we help you find the answers to your questions about consumers, brands and products. each year, we conduct more than a million interviews, while collecting and analyzing data for our clients around the world. we are happy to advise you on which quantitative and qualitative methods are the best for achieving your goals. learn more market analyses & forecasts what's the size of your market segment? how are markets developing? what are the trends behind these developments? for many years, we have specialized in building market models and developing forecasting methods. learn more askstatista askstatista is a research service offering quick and hassle-free answers to your research questions. we deliver robust insights generated by our experienced analysts within 24 hours. learn more other solutions contact us about us career contact us imprint statista 2019