statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr explore and analyze how consumers think the statista global consumer survey offers a global perspective on consumption and media usage, covering the offline and online world of the consumer. it is designed to help marketers, planners and product managers understand consumer behavior and consumer interactions with brands. browse the global consumer survey global consumer survey 2020 with the global consumer survey, statista offers an intuitive expert tool to investigate and gain insight to consumer behavior, drawn from an exclusive, global survey. more than 700,000 interviews 55 countries over 50 industries over 6,500 brands industries and topics countries & territories international brands customized target groups do-it-yourself analyses new content specials more than 50 industries and topics the global consumer survey covers more than 50 industries and topics from the online and offline world. marketing & social media customer journey social media & word of mouth websites & apps internet & devices smartphone access at home mobile internet access finance & insurance personal finance primary bank banking & financial services online & mobile payment insurance travel private & business travel etravel ecommerce & retail shopping behavior retail & fmcg online shopping media & digital media radio & digital music print media & epublishing tv & video-on-demand video games health health care & health insurance pharmacy & medication ehealth services & eservices ticket bookings food delivery online dating fitness & health services food & nutrition grocery shopping online shopping smoking mobility car ownership & purchase smart car features mobility services housing & household equipment consumer electronics household appliances smart home devices accommodation characteristics & demographics education & employment income & economic situation values & attitudes consumption etc. discover data on more than 6,500 international brands from over 50 categories. ...and many more content specials in addition to the main study, exclusive additional survey data on interesting subtopics for custom analyses of industries and topics is offered. the topic-specific samples provide both a basic look and deep insights into specified markets. the content specials are continually extended and cover topics including: food & hot drinks otc & pharmaceuticals travel & tourism decorative cosmetics and facial care tech giants & digital services cybersecurity & cloud european football benchmark media, sports & lifestyle eating & drinking luxury & counterfeiting toys and games customized target groups users can carry out tailored in-depth analyses with different target groups. they can either choose from a set of pre-defined target groups or use different dimensions like demographics, living situation, internet & media usage, values & attitudes and much more to create and customize their own target groups for unique analyses. demographics gender age education household income migrant background ethnicity¹ economic situation living situation region² type of community marital status children in household household size internet & media internet usage by frequency internet usage by device mobile vs. stationary user advertising touchpoints social media activities brand awareness values & attitudes hobbies & interests view on personal future important life aspects innovation adopter types ¹ u.s. and uk only ² in the extended version only do-it-yourself analyses the global consumer survey is accessible via an interactive online evaluation tool: users can carry out their own evaluation of the global consumer survey data, select their own criteria to create cross tables and customize target groups. features cross-tabulation customized target groups trend and country comparisons export in excel (csv) or powerpoint format 55 countries covering more than 90% of the global gdp the global consumer survey 2020 is conducted in 55 countries. the basic version of the survey includes a minimum of 2,000 interviews per country. the extended version covers at least 12,000 interviews per country. the following countries are covered: north america canada ¹ mexico ¹ united states ¹ south america and caribbean argentina brazil ¹ chile colombia dominican republic peru central and western europe austria ¹ belgium czechia france ¹ germany ¹ hungary ³ ireland netherlands ¹ poland ¹ switzerland ² united kingdom ¹ northern and eastern europe denmark finland ² lithuania norway romania ³ russia ² serbia sweden ¹ southern europe greece italy ¹ portugal spain ¹ turkey africa egypt ³ kenya morocco nigeria south africa ² asia & australia australia ² mainland china ¹ ⁴ india ¹ israel ³ indonesia japan malaysia ³ new zealand pakistan philippines ³ saudi arabia singapore ³ south korea ¹ taiwan (province of china) ³ thailand vietnam united arab emirates ³ ¹ extended survey ² extended survey in 2020 ³ new as of q1/q2 2020 ⁴ mainland china access to the global consumer survey use the benefits of our enterprise account to kickstart your research. not sure if your account is eligible? contact us! enterprise account what is the global consumer survey? in addition to our video, our product guide offers a detailed overview of how to work with the browser-based tool. release calendar history future updates last 30 days no updates available march content special: toys & games germany, france, united kingdom, united states no scheduled updates april global consumer survey - update (extended survey) austria, canada, france, germany, italy, spain,… global consumer survey - update (basic survey) argentina, belgium, chile, denmark, indonesia, ireland,… global consumer survey - new countries egypt, israel, malaysia, romania, singapore, united… no scheduled updates may content special: fashion fashion shopping, clothing styles, brand preferences:… no scheduled updates methodology methodology the global consumer survey was conducted as an interactive online survey. the target population are internet users between 18 and 64 years of age. respondents in each country were sampled according to representative quotas for age, gender and region¹. each country receives an annual data update. cint is the exclusive sample provider for the global consumer survey. essential to the cint platform are the quality standards and controls built into its research-quality-focused processes. all of cint’s systems and procedures comply with the requirements set forth in cint’s certification to iso 20252, which defines the requirements in a quality management system for organizations conducting market, opinion and social research². download the methodology questionnaire of the global consumer survey the standardized questionnaire was prepared according to scientific standards and exclusively contains items of the type single response, multiple response and matrix questions. the questionnaire was translated and localized either in its basic or extended version for every single country. you can find more information on the content in the methodology description. download the full english questionnaire here. download questionnaire more than 100 additional characteristics in addition to the survey data, the global consumer survey contains the most recent profiling data available for each respondent. users can choose from more than 100 additional characteristics to build and analyze their custom target groups. work life & education, e.g. field of expertise, university education by major personal information, e.g. gender of children, pet ownership hobbies & interests, e.g. sport activities political engagement, e.g. political party, frequency of voting housing conditions, e.g. electricity supply, planned home improvements retail & purchase behavior, e.g. jewelry purchases, department store shopping food & nutrition, e.g. food allergies, visits to fast food restaurants media, e.g. movie theater visits, online and virtual gaming vehicles, e.g. car purchases finances & insurances, e.g. insurance coverage, participation in stock trading health, e.g. usage of spectacles and hearing aids travel, e.g. preferred vacation types, travels by country quality checks along the research path statista applied a consistent quality management to every step of the research process: panel quality quality management mechanisms by cint, including quarantine times for respondents, continuous quality checks across different surveys, exclusion after repetitive bad survey behavior, etc. survey quality sample quotas on age, gender, and region¹ mobile-optimized questionnaires (e.g. no grid-questions, limited number of items, etc.) with item randomization statista quality checks measures to ensure data quality included checks for speeders, straight liners and non-response, logic and repetition tests, open questions for bot-identification, etc. our work complies with the guidelines set by bvm/adm (germany) and esomar faqs general who can access the global consumer survey? the global consumer survey can be activated for all statista clients who have an enterprise account. please log in to the platform as usual and then choose the “login” option for the global consumer survey. you will be forwarded directly to the data. not an enterprise client yet? please contact our customer service for personal advice. which topics are included in the global consumer survey? the global consumer survey contains exclusive data on more than 50 industries and hot topics. please find a detailed overview of all content the top of the page. can the data be downloaded? you can easily download all your individual analyses as csv files or powerpoint presentations and start processing them right away. you will find the download buttons on the upper right corner in the online tool. will the global consumer survey cover more countries in the future? the global consumer survey covers currently 46 countries. we will expand the content available for each country and the range of country as it is described in our release calendar. please find information on the extension plans towards further countries here. data & methodology which sources is the global consumer survey based on? the data of the global consumer survey come from a worldwide online survey, which was exclusively carried out by statista. in addition, there is a set of profiling questions that were answered by the respondents in previous surveys conducted by the panel provider, their number depends on the individual country. who was interviewed in the global consumer survey? the global consumer survey contains data on more than 700,000 respondents worldwide. conditions for participation were internet access and a registration for online survey participation. quotas were applied on demographic characteristics in order to make sure that the samples were representative of the online population in the surveyed countries. when were the data gathered? field times for countries of the basic version are scheduled in the first half of every year. data for the extended survey countries are gathered twice a year at an interval of half a year. please find the exact survey periods for the individual countries in the methodology. technical questions & customer support can the data for different countries be directly compared? it is always guaranteed that the data for individual countries are methodologically comparable. for direct comparisons of individual indicators in international context, please use the download function in the table you have generated. for an even quicker and easier use, we are going to directly combine the data on different countries in the future. who can i address if i have further questions on the content of the global consumer survey? for all support requests that refer to the provided data, please contact our customer service. your inquiry will be directly forwarded to the responsible analysts and experts on our team, who will be able to provide you with comprehensive information concerning your request. who can i address if i have technical problems with the global consumer survey? if you have problems logging in to the global consumer survey, please make sure that you are using your enterprise account. only then will you have limitless access to all our exclusive data. for all other technical support requests, please contact our customer service. your inquiry will be directly forwarded to the responsible it experts, who will solve any technical issues as quickly as possible. ¹ in china according to representative quotas only for age and gender ² please find more information on cint’s quality standards here team the global consumer survey was developed by statista’s consumer and business insights team of experienced market and social researchers. we follow scientific standards pertaining to the collection, analysis, and protection of data as well as the processing of personal information. all studies undergo strict quality control procedures before, during, and after the fieldwork phase. nicolas loose ann-kathrin kohl eugenia kirienko johanna regenthal alexander kunst jack spearman head of market research, strategic market insights nicolas loose is in charge of the exclusive statista surveys and the consumer market outlook. he studied communications and strategic planning at berlin university of the arts and social sciences at the humboldt university of berlin. after his studies he worked as a market researcher for customers in the fmcg and automotive industries and as head of market research for auto bild publishing group with axel springer publishing house. market researcher ann-kathrin kohl studied sociology at the university of potsdam. prior to joining statista, she was a project manager for quantitative market and opinion research at the german research institute info gmbh markt- und meinungsforschung. market researcher eugenia kirienko studied economics and romance studies at osnabrück university. before joining statista, she worked at a market research institute specializing in quantitative market research. market researcher johanna regenthal graduated in business psychology from the fresenius university of applied sciences in hamburg, specializing in international management and personnel psychology. after supporting the team as a student assistant, she became a full part of cbi and is now responsible for consumer surveys in all their project parts from the planning to the analysis, and for operative product management. senior researcher alexander kunst studied sociology and philosophy at the university of hamburg, specializing in empirical methods and analytical philosophy. after working as a researcher in statista’s editorial team for several years, he has joined cbi and is now responsible for the publication of cbi survey results as content for the statista platforms. market researcher jack spearman studied sociology at kingston university in london, uk. after graduating, he went on to work at tns and ipsos in various project management and market research roles, where he developed his skills for over 7 years. he moved to hamburg in 2016 and prior to joining statista he worked as a patient insight manager at clariness, where he helped lead the development of the company’s online survey offer. statista research & analysis are you looking for in-depth data or specific analyses that go beyond what the statista platform or the global consumer survey offer? our services include: online surveys, focus groups, and expert interviews data modeling for market sizing and forecasting desk research and company profiles we would be happy to conduct preliminary research for you free of charge and to provide you with a non-binding offer. discover more request a free and non-binding proposal do you have any further questions? we look forward to your inquiry access to the global consumer survey the global consumer survey is part of the statista enterprise account. upon request we can tell you whether the global consumer survey has been unlocked for your account. contact (united states) michael elian office manager support@statista.com +1 (212) 419-8290 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm, est contact (europe) lodovica biagi director of operations eu.support@statista.com +44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm, gmt contact (asia) ziyan zhang customer relations asia.support@statista.com +91 80 49016428 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm, ist we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok navigation hide overview release calendar methodology team contact browse the survey home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr