video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map documentaries stay busy and productive this weekend by streaming unlimited documentaries this documentary service may be a surprisingly productive use of your time. next article --shares add to queue grow your business, not your inbox stay informed and join our daily newsletter now! email will be used in accordance with our privacy policy image credit: entrepreneur store entrepreneur store contributor march 27, 2020 2 min read disclosure: our goal is to feature products and services that we think you'll find interesting and useful. if you purchase them, entrepreneur may get a small share of the revenue from the sale from our commerce partners. while nobody could fault you for binging tiger king on netflix this week, at some point during this extended period at home, you're bound to end up in a spate of just watching tv for watching tv's sake. there's no problem with taking a break here and there, of course, but with so much time in our homes, it's important to not get complacent. if you're exhausted and just want to watch something before bed, at least consider curiositystream. curiositystream is the award-winning streaming and on-demand platform launched by discovery communications founder john hendricks. what sets it apart is that it specializes solely in documentary filmmaking. with original and classic documentaries from the likes of stephen hawking and david attenborough, curiositystream takes you on a journey throughout the natural and celestial worlds. their library includes more than 2,000 documentary features on science, nature, history, technology, society and lifestyle, bringing a wealth of knowledge right to your screen of choice. think curious minds with david mccullough and the story of frank lloyd wright, to name a few. you can also discover new favorites with personalized recommendations or browse collections and lists curated by curiositystream's experts. stream an unlimited amount of educational content every month and use social distancing as an excuse to learn something new. curiositystream typically costs $20 per year, but you can sign up for a two-year subscription today for just $29.99. with a 4.1 rating on amazon across over 2k reviews, you can rest assured it's worth your time. more from entrepreneur get heaping discounts to books you love delivered straight to your inbox. we’ll feature a different book each week and share exclusive deals you won’t find anywhere else. sign up now jumpstart your business. entrepreneur insider is your all-access pass to the skills, experts, and network you need to get your business off the ground—or take it to the next level. join now starting, buying, or growing your small business shouldn’t be hard. guidant financial works to make financing easy for current and aspiring small business owners by providing custom funding solutions, financing education, and more. learn more related books ultimate guide to google adwords buy from ultimate guide to google adwords buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to pay-per-click advertising buy from ultimate guide to pay-per-click advertising buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to optimizing your website buy from ultimate guide to optimizing your website buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to link building buy from ultimate guide to link building buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read million dollar web presence buy from million dollar web presence buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read outcome-based marketing: new rules for marketing on the web buy from outcome-based marketing: new rules for marketing on the web buy from amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play 800-ceo-read latest on entrepreneur company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account streaming make your binge-watching productive with access to 2,000+ documentaries entertainment explore new worlds with this streaming documentary service movies 10 entertaining business documentaries entrepreneurs can learn from how success happens podcast here's what bob saget has learned after decades of making people laugh (podcast) technology 6 tricks you need to know about zoom