skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides category: steal this idea anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on feb 14, 2020 posted in: random musings, steal this idea people are always surprised when i tell them rand and i don’t really celebrate valentine’s day. i mean, we used to. but dear lord, it was always so, so much, and it always felt a little weird and uncomfortable and forced, even if it lead to some of my favorite photos, ever: … keep reading relationship advice: buy a big ass scarf posted on mar 26, 2019 posted in: advice, random musings, steal this idea i am on occasion asked for relationship advice. i often do not know how to reply. the list of things i could tell people is long and winding, may be entirely irrelevant, and varies from season to season and day to day. in summer, i learn to appreciate freckles and to not mind when the… keep reading travel life hack: washing/drying your clothes in a hotel room posted on feb 23, 2016 posted in: advice, somewhat useful info, steal this idea if you travel enough, you will inevitably find yourself washing your socks, underwear, and at least two or three t-shirts in a hotel bathroom sink. as any experienced traveler will tell you, this is the easy part. getting your clothes wet in the confines of a hotel room isn’t a problem. i just realized that… keep reading how to freeze homemade cookie dough for fresh-baked treats any damn time posted on may 6, 2015 posted in: food, life at home, somewhat useful info, steal this idea when people learn of my vast and all-consuming love of sweets, they are often surprised to learn that dessert was largely absent from my childhood. my mother is not a baker, nor a lover of sweet things. there was, on occasion, a box or two of pepperidge farm milano cookies in the cabinet, but these… keep reading steal this idea: decorating guest beds posted on sep 4, 2012 posted in: awesome, steal this idea folks, i am a bit of a thief. no, i’m not referring to that one time in barcelona (though i must say, the sheer amount of hate mail i got over that post was both unexpected and delightful). my sticky-fingeredness occurs far more often than that. i steal from friends, from loved ones, from both… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.