skip to primary navigation skip to content copyblogger start here blog podcast training certified writers my account login my.copyblogger search type in your keyword and press enter to search copyblogger.com:close search copyblogger... stefanie flaxman stefanie flaxman is copyblogger’s editor-in-chief. she teaches better writing, disciplined creativity, and non-sleazy marketing. get more from stefanie on youtube. by stefanie flaxman on march 25, 2020 8 transformative edits to strengthen weak content writing blogging content marketing editing writing what does a rough draft of a blog post have in common with all of the other blog posts by… continue reading stefanie flaxman 7 ways to make your writing personal (but not self-indulgent) content marketing editing writing stefanie flaxman the key to fixing content marketing that doesn’t work content marketing writing stefanie flaxman 3 proofreading pointers, so your writing isn’t shared for the wrong reason editing writing stefanie flaxman master this writing practice to find more loyal readers blogging content marketing writing stefanie flaxman meticulously edit your own writing: the traffic light revision technique blogging content marketing editing tutorials by stefanie flaxman on december 19, 2019 when you’re ready for a change, don’t hesitate content marketing copywriting entrepreneurship freelance writing writing this is the last copyblogger weekly of the year — and the decade! and actually, it’s the last copyblogger weekly… continue reading stefanie flaxman what’s the one skill that separates well-paid freelance writers from those who struggle? certified content marketers content marketing entrepreneurship freelance writing stefanie flaxman how to build a (real) writing business content marketing entrepreneurship writing stefanie flaxman 3 steps to hone the skill that can advance your career as a writer content marketing editing writing stefanie flaxman 9 essential elements of effective content marketing content marketing productivity writing stefanie flaxman why you should pour yourself a glass of water and write for 15 minutes today creativity writing page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 15 next page get free access to proven marketing training. notice: javascript is required for this content. copyright © 2006–2020 copyblogger media llc contact comment policy privacy policy cookie policy refund policy terms