video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map stephanie schomer entrepreneur staff deputy editor follow about stephanie schomer stephanie schomer is entrepreneur magazine's deputy editor. she previously worked at entertainment weekly, architectural digest and fast company. follow her on twitter @stephschomer. more from stephanie schomer how jen gotch's mental health struggles made her a better leader the founder and creative director of ban.do wants to help her team, customers, and people everywhere prioritize their own wellness. 6 min read franchises how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes speedpro president and ceo larry oberly is haunted by some of his earliest missteps as a manager. but today, that's made him a better boss. 4 min read franchises why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise minhthe nguyen used to be an overworked silicon valley engineer. now, as a ubreakifix franchisee, he's still overworked -- but happier than ever. 4 min read how the founder of year & day made millennials love tableware kathryn duryea didn't want ikea dishes, and she didn't want fancy china. and she bet other people her age felt the same. 4 min read how stitch fix ceo katrina lake learned to embrace her power the founder of the $2 billion business shares how she's grown as a leader, how she pays it forward, and how she handles bad news. 8 min read by listening to her customers, this entrepreneur found a larger audience -- and a greater mission michelle kennedy launched the peanut app to help moms. but now, the app is out to help all women. 15+ min read larabar's founder stocked shelves at whole foods to learn about retail by starting at the bottom, lara merriken got a quick education to food-product sales and marketing. 4 min read ayesha curry has built a business empire -- and she's still learning the entrepreneur turned a youtube channel into a lifestyle brand, including a book, restaurants, and tv gigs. her guiding principle: treat every step as an education. 8 min read franchise 500 #7 on the franchise 500: planet fitness knows you don't want to go to the gym the #7 company on our franchise 500 list attracts first-time gym-goers with low prices and a shame-free environment. 2 min read communication don't know how to reach gen z? just ask beautycon. ceo moj mahdara is helping brands across industries connect with the next generation of consumers. 12 min read from bankruptcy to $87 million in funding: how tamara mellon saved her namesake brand the jimmy choo co-founder has faced plenty of hurdles as an entrepreneur. but now, she's clinging tight to her vision -- and finding new levels of success. 14 min read lilly singh conquered youtube -- now she's taking on hollywood with a new gig as one of nbc's late-night talk show hosts, the comedian and content creator is ready to tackle traditional media. 9 min read supermodel karlie kloss's lesson to young women: never be afraid to ask questions! the project runway host built a coding school, kode with klossy, to inspire a generation of tech-savvy women. but her real mission, she says, is much broader. 13 min read minted grew from a stationery brand to a global design platform. here's how. by listening to her community and reacting quickly, mariam naficy built a business bigger than her wildest visions. 8 min read teamwork how four friends became successful franchisees by splitting responsibilities and respecting each other's skill sets, these pals created a successful coder school operation. 4 min read 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 ... 11 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account