search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. sterling k brown knows exactly what happens in a major this is us season 3 spoiler he knows who "her" is in that dreaded randall-tess cliffhanger. by eileen reslen 24/04/2018 nbcgetty images as a cast member on this is us, sterling k brown knows all of the secrets to next season's storylines. but sadly, he's not sharing any of them just yet. the 42-year-old actor, known for playing randall pearson on the hit nbc series, told entertainment weekly that writers have already clued him in on a major cliffhanger that was featured on season two's final episode: the "her" scene. fans of the show will recall a flash-forward scene in 'the wedding' that showcased a grown-up tess and older randall ominously talking about not wanting to see "her". "it's time to go see her, tess," randall tells his eldest daughter. "i'm not ready," tess replies. viewers immediately speculated on social media that either deja, beth or even annie could be the "her". "i know who the person is that future randall is referring to, but [series creator dan] fogelman would cut off my big toe if i actually told you who it was," brown told ew. "but, i can tell you it's probably not what you suspect. in classic fogelman style, it will be like, 'oh, wow – didn't see that coming.'" so, he won't say the who part, but does brown know what happened to the woman teased in the episode? yes. but, he's not sharing too much about that, either. "[fogelman] has a very keen understanding of what the beginning, middle and end of our show is, and that's important because he often likens our show to lost in terms of its structure," brown explained. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images "you're dealing with present-day circumstances, and then you have these flashbacks which further illuminate the present circumstances of the characters. "when you see that flash-forward to the future, it will ultimately help to illuminate what the end of our story will be. that's pretty big. without telling you anything, i actually told you quite a bit." related story this is us season 3: everything you need to know chrissy metz, who plays kate pearson in the series, also spoke with ew ahead of last season's finale and teased that the tess-randall cliffhanger would lead to something "not good". "it's something you'd... nobody... it's not good," she said with hesitation. "it's actually very heartbreaking." with the entire cast very tight-lipped about the details of the upcoming season, it appears that viewers will just have to wait to watch it all unfold when season 3 airs later this year in the us. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. from: good housekeeping us advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv sterling k brown cast in american crime story person of interest adds sterling k brown this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 this is us star confirms they will survive s3 this is us season 3: everything you need to know this is us cast share major season 2 'spoilers' us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising