skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events still no wood grain: wp tavern design update justin tadlock · march 20, 2020 · 22 comments wp tavern homepage design. it has been a bit of a slow news week in the land of wordpress with the covid-19 pandemic reaching across the globe. most people are hunkering down or getting accustomed to a change in their daily lives. for some people, that has meant figuring out a way to work with children at home. for others, it has meant they cannot take their daily lunch with colleagues or friends. with far less wordpress-specific news going on, it made for an ideal time to put some work into the wp tavern website. most weeks, i am far too busy sifting through stories to put the amount of work i want into updating the design, but i am trying to treat this week as a little bit of a blessing and look at the upside. not much has changed with the overall layout of the site, but i was able to tackle a couple of issues that you, our readers, have been asking for. the biggest change that you will notice is a new header design. on mobile devices, it will look the same. however, on larger screens, the header expands to reveal a search form with a navigation menu below. the header colors have been updated. with more horizontal space, the menu also has extra links pointing to our primary categories, which has also been an oft-requested change. while these changes may seem minor, i wanted to address some of the bigger user-experience issues that you all have messaged about. there is still more work to do, but i want you to know that we are listening to your feedback. the major roadblock with this design iteration was related to the block editor’s markup changes. these changes will land in wordpress 5.4, so theme authors need to make sure they are prepared. i wanted to spend more time working on front-end updates, but correcting editor issues took precedence. it has not been a great experience writing on the site for the past week without theme styles being properly applied. the block editor’s default font size is far too small for my poor eyesight, so backend work moved to the top of the to-do list. aside from those changes, i cleaned up several trivial issues that have been bugging me but would go unnoticed by visitors. work on a website design is never finished, and i look forward to continuing molding things to better serve our readers. one of the things i want to tackle next is featuring comments from you all in better ways. we have done a little of this with our from the comments series, but that is just the first step toward building more of a community atmosphere. as always, feedback is welcome. everyone stay safe during this rough patch the world is going through. share this: click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... posted in tavern 22 comments christina hills march 20, 2020, 4:24 pm · reply i really liked the wood grain! ;) christina loading... report jason rouet march 20, 2020, 6:53 pm · reply under the hood improvment is anever ending job but a necessary one! good luck! wptavern had become a major media on the wp community over the years. like i said on twitter before, minimalism is great but the tavern’s identity has vanished since the redesign. i like the content first priority but the wood grain background was the only distinguishing design feature i am able to remember. i am not saying you have to bring it back (kidding just bring it back pleeeeease) but it’s hard to identify wptavern compared to another random media with clean minimalist theme design. imho something is missing! loading... report jonah brown march 20, 2020, 9:55 pm · reply maybe integrate wood grain into a logo? loading... report marcus tibesar march 20, 2020, 10:49 pm · reply search is much appreciated! i use it all the time… loading... report justin tadlock march 23, 2020, 4:30 pm · reply i knew you would like it. :) loading... report chris march 21, 2020, 3:38 am · reply “the biggest change that you will notice is a new header design. on mobile devices, it will look the same. however, on larger screens, the header expands to reveal a search form with a navigation menu below. ” isn’t that a major problem? mobile users shouldn’t lose functionality. can’t the search box be added to the end of the menu? loading... report justin tadlock march 21, 2020, 7:05 am · reply it’s more of a “what can i get added for now and continue iterating on later” problem. :) one step at a time. loading... report petr march 21, 2020, 5:05 am · reply hi, please check the header on the small devices. iphone se here and the hamburger icon is not inline with the logo. it’s especially discomforting for sticky feature, because the header take up really much space of the viewport height. thanks petr loading... report justin tadlock march 21, 2020, 7:33 am · reply thanks. it looks like that has been a long-standing issue on devices that size. i’m surprised it hasn’t come up. it should be fixed now. loading... report in reply to justin tadlock petr march 21, 2020, 9:26 am · reply oh, yes it was a long standing issue. but i can confirm, it’s fixed now. thanks loading... report rené march 21, 2020, 8:57 am · reply the most important element for recognition and distinction is still not back: the logo! i am missing the beer mug:-( loading... report justin tadlock march 21, 2020, 9:27 am · reply here’s a version of a logo idea at the moment. i am hoping we can bring it or similar into the design at some point. it is in use as the fallback featured image right now. loading... report sajan kota march 21, 2020, 9:03 am · reply hi justin, new header design looks cool. looking forward to how comments will be featured in future :-). loading... report steven gliebe march 21, 2020, 9:40 am · reply i’d like some wood grain myself. just nostalgia. loading... report jill parthenos march 23, 2020, 9:26 pm · reply it’s more than nostalgia. things like the wood grain and logo, although arguably dated, were part of the site personality and to strip them out makes no sense. it’s completely bereft of any kind of character now. there’s not even a nod towards the site history. loading... report max march 22, 2020, 1:38 am · reply does the featured article has to be black`? it looks a bit like a death notice. loading... report bud kraus march 22, 2020, 10:19 am · reply please. bring back the good old days. now, more than ever we need the wood grain. loading... report steven gliebe march 23, 2020, 7:41 am · reply chrysler needs to start making those minivans again too. loading... report thefrosty march 23, 2020, 11:34 am · reply would love to see a dark mode toggle. loading... report justin tadlock march 24, 2020, 8:07 am · reply a dark mode is something we could consider down the road after we shape the current design into whatever it will be. loading... report c cullens march 24, 2020, 2:56 pm · reply my rss feed of wptavern is no longer working. did anything change around https://wptavern.com/feed? loading... report justin tadlock march 24, 2020, 3:41 pm · reply it’s just the regular wordpress rss feed and unrelated to the site’s theme. i don’t see any issues with it. i’m subscribed to the feed, and it has been coming through fine for me. it may have been a temporary issue. loading... report leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. join the discussion via emailget only replies to your comment, the best of the rest, as well as a daily recap of all comments on this post. no more than a few emails daily, which you can reply to/unsubscribe from directly from your inbox. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: