skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search stoicism by kim become invincible: how you can conquer fear you’re stronger than you think you are. expect the unexpected why aren’t things worse? my philosophy on masculinity a riskier life is a better life #philosophy #stoicism how to creatively flourish in life introduction to stoicism how to become stronger how to conquer depression with photography what doesn’t kill you makes you stronger how to respect yourself how to believe in yourself how to steer fear how to conquer pessimism how to conquer anxiety how to overcome your fear of people how to be optimistic why i don’t take my anger seriously how to become more powerful positivity. how to become superhuman how to give a fuck less all in. why i cut my dad out of my life. your iphone only has 5% battery left. how not to give a fuck about your reputation what is a human? happiness. the regret minimization framework in photography and life how to be a hero conquer your fears by making fear your slave rule circumstances; don’t let your circumstances rule you how to love yourself how to turn shit into gold your parents fuck you up immortality what kills you makes you stronger how to be patient how to conquer anger how to bounce back in life how to overcome resistance nothing unlimited is good; nothing good is unlimited you have no limits can 1’s and 0’s hurt you? the envious moment is flying now tomorrow we’ll sail the wide seas again how to forgive others focus on your actions, not the results everything will be alright how to be a stoic street photographer how to be a spartan photographer how to overcome your fears in life how to stop worrying in life how to use photography as self-therapy how to free your soul from disturbance 3 stoic techniques that can help you gain tranquility can people weaker than you hurt you? does a doctor get angry at a crazy patient? own nothing the stoic masters learn from the master stoics: seneca marcus aurelius epictetus publilius syrus heraclitus see all philosophy > primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta