skip to main content the diary of samuel pepys daily entries from the 17th century london diary menu the diary letters encyclopedia in-depth articles site news recent activity about categories map family tree log in register search go encyclopedia holidays and events stone feast annotations (3) references (7) 3 annotations ✹ grahamt on 29 mar 2006 • link on 26th march 1658, samuel pepys was "cut for the stone". each year on the same date, or near to it, he has a celebration in thanks of being delivered safely from the both the stone and the dangerous operation to remove it. ✹ grahamt on 27 mar 2007 • link 1660: this day it is two years since it pleased god that i was cut of the stone at mrs. turner's in salisbury court. and did resolve while i live to keep it a festival, as i did the last year at my house, and for ever to have mrs. turner and her company with me. 1661: this is my great day that three years ago i was cut of the stone, and, blessed be god, i do yet find myself very free from pain again. 1662: this being, by god's great blessing, the fourth solemn day of my cutting for the stone this day four years, and am by god's mercy in very good health, and like to do well, the lord's name be praised for it. 1663: this day is five years since it pleased god to preserve me at my being cut of the stone, of which i bless god i am in all respects well. only now and then upon taking cold i have some pain, but otherwise in very good health always. 1664: ...and so home, and there found madam turner, her daughter the., joyce norton, my father and mr. honywood, and by and by come my uncle wight and aunt. this being my solemn feast for my cutting of the stone, it being now, blessed be god! this day six years since the time; and i bless god i do in all respects find myself free from that disease or any signs of it, more than that upon the least cold i continue to have pain in making water, by gathering of wind and growing costive, till which be removed i am at no ease, but without that i am very well. one evil more i have, which is that upon the least squeeze almost my cods begin to swell and come to great pain, which is very strange and troublesome to me, though upon the speedy applying of a poultice it goes down again, and in two days i am well again. ✹ terry foreman on 19 jul 2017 • link 1665: this is the day seven years which, by the blessing of god, i have survived of my being cut of the stone, and am now in very perfect good health and have long been; and though the last winter hath been as hard a winter as any have been these many years, yet i never was better in my life, nor have not, these ten years, gone colder in the summer than i have done all this winter, wearing only a doublet, and a waistcoate cut open on the back; abroad, a cloake and within doors a coate i slipped on. 1666: pepys fails to observe or mention his having been cut of the stone. 1667: up with a sad heart in reference to my mother, of whose death i undoubtedly expect to hear the next post, if not of my father’s also, who by his pain as well as his grief for her is very ill, but on my own behalf i have cause to be joyful this day, it being my usual feast day, for my being cut of the stone this day nine years, and through god’s blessing am at this day and have long been in as good condition of health as ever i was in my life or any man in england is, god make me thankful for it! but the condition i am in, in reference to my mother, makes it unfit for me to keep my usual feast. 1668: pepys fails to observe or mention his having been cut of the stone 26 march. 27 march: this day, at noon, comes mr. pelling to me, and shews me the stone cut lately out of sir thomas adams’ (the old comely alderman’s) body, which is very large indeed, bigger i think than my fist, and weighs above twenty-five ounces and, which is very miraculous, he never in all his life had any fit of it, but lived to a great age without pain, and died at last of something else, without any sense of this in all his life. 1669: this being done, we to supper, and so to talk, commissioner middleton being mighty good company upon a journey, and so to bed, thinking how merry my people are at this time, putting tom and jane to bed, being to have been married this day, it being also my feast for my being cut of the stone, but how many years i do not remember, but i think it to be about ten or eleven. log in to post an annotation. if you don't have an account, then register here. references chart showing the number of references in each month of the diary’s entries. 1663 apr 4 1664 mar 26 1665 mar 26 jun 9 1667 mar 26 1669 mar 21 26 latest site news full samuel pepys club interview 27 march 2020 samuel pepys and the virus 25 march 2020 email, twitter & mastodon receive diary entries by email daily join the pepys’ diary email discussion group follow in real time on twitter or on mastodon rss feeds diary entries encyclopedia topics in-depth articles site news posts about this site is run by phil gyford @philgyford on twitter more about this site