skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me category: stories insane experience at holi festival in india every year, at the beginning of spring in india, is the holi festival – a.k.a. an all-out paint war! i arrived in india during the middle of the week-long celebration and i was delighted to be able to experience this once-in-a-lifetime festival. holi, also known as the festival of colors, has a long tradition which lies deeply […] read more… posted in stories41 comments i survived a fatal bus crash in india holy shit. my life just flashed in front of my eyes. a few hours ago, i was in a massive bus crash in india. it was the closest near death experience i’ve ever had. i’m writing this right now on my iphone notepad, just an hour after my bus completely flipped over the freeway and […] read more… posted in stories2 comments getting locked out of my apartment in korea… at the time of writing this, i’ve been living in korea for about 8 months. i never had any issues unlocking my front door or getting inside my building. it was an average wednesday in june– smack in the middle of the work week. the rainy season was approaching, and it just so happened that […] read more… posted in stories2 comments this guy in macau thought i was mark zuckerburg, and it was hilarious i was in macau with 2 friends for a day-trip from hong kong. the ferry ride is just 1.5 hours and it’s well worth the trip! macau is a very unique place. as former portuguese colony for 400+ years, the architecture of macau made me feel like i was back in europe. mix that with the crazy […] read more… posted in storiesleave a comment a disaster at the brunei airport “what is a brunei?” — that was the response that most of my family and friends said when i told them i was going to brunei. it’s one of the least populated and recognizable countries in asia, located in between malaysia and indonesia on borneo island. i went to brunei on a 4 day trip in 2014 […] read more… posted in stories5 comments an unexpected hitchhike in bosnia when people say, “tell me a crazy travel story,” this is usually the first story that comes to mind. it happened when i was 20 years old. it was spring break when i was studying abroad in prague, czech rep, back in april 2012. two of my friends and i decided to go a crazy eurotrip, hitting […] read more… posted in stories1 comment deadly boat ride in the philippines from early january to late february of 2014, i went on a backpacking trip around southeast asia. the philippines was my first country on the journey, and the trip was already going incredible thus far. at the time, i was traveling with just one friend. it was our last day in the philippines and we had […] read more… posted in stories1 comment my first turkish bath in istanbul i was in istanbul with 2 friends in the middle of a european backpacking adventure in the summer of 2012. prior to my trip, i had only heard of a turkish bath, but i had no idea what the experience was like… on a warm summer day, my friends and i were strolling down a main […] read more… posted in stories2 comments hilarious iphone scandal in dubai & athens this is a pretty funny story which involves me making a dumb move and really weird things happening on my iphone. i was in dubai with 2 friends after my study abroad semester finished in 2012. the trip was going fantastic so far – we went to the top of the burj khalifa, checked out the dubai […] read more… posted in storiesleave a comment categories blog in korea blogging budgeting golf popular snapchat stories social stories tips travel videos recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.