skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search story of henri strap & erickim strap happy 2019 from cindy & eric! henri neck strap by max @maximiliankamps this post is written by cindy aka haptic: serendipitous encounters: saigon 2014 in summer of 2014 eric and i met a group of talented artists in saigon. we hung out, drank lots of coffee, and talked about creative projects to work on: project 1: our friend gin and his gang of skilled film producers put together this beautiful film about shooting street photography in vietnam along with fujifilm vietnam: project 2: gin also introduced us to his childhood friend who are models and musicians, lan and uyen. in vietnam, rarely do people just do one thing. there is a spirit of creativity, entrepreneurism, and scrappiness in saigon. lan and uyen also are talented leather makers and artisans. over the course of three years we worked together to design, experiment, and make different products. prototype of eric’s camera bag he used and traveled with since 2011. handmade leather camera straps all of our leather products — the henri collection (neck strap, wrist strap, wrist strap pro, shoulder strap, chroma) and eric kim collection (wrist strap, neck strap) are 100% leather and handmade and crafted with care from start to finish. each henri strap is hand-made by two of our friends, lan and uyen who are a leather craftsmen and artists in saigon. we design and develop the aesthetic concept of each strap and work closely work with the artisans lan and uyen. lan and uyen source the leather, handmake the straps during the weekdays between music gigs, and ship them to california from saigon. rather than mass produced, these are handmade in small, limited-quantity batches in order to preserve a level of excellent craftsmanship and quality. each strap is unique. once they get to california, eric and i, (and now with the help of our loving and supportive family–sorry mom for taking over the dining room table…) work to quality check, finish, and package each strap: i designed the packaging of each product (i love boxes). the labeling is hand-stamped! why buy from haptic aka cindy & eric? eric with the henri mark iii in phantom black cindy with the henri mark iii in mahogany brown unlike huge, anonymous factories, this is the entire operation: eric, me, my family, lan, and uyen. we are transparent about the labor practices behind the straps because we are proud and love each product we make. we live in vietnam currently and are very cognizant of global inequality, especially in labor practices. this is why we price our products the way we do. we want to give a fair and respectful wage to everyone involved. we do not run a wholesale factory, but support honest and beautiful work. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you we know there are so many other straps and camera accessories to choose from, so we thank you for choosing to support us! here are our friends from all around the world, proudly displaying their haptic products: josh white @jt_inseoul with erickim strap sundo- leica m3, @instasundo danny – seattle mike, seattle – leica m3 pierre – belgium josh – og ricoh gr, @jt_inseoul whitney – rx1r, @whitneyhensleyphoto leon – united kingdom leo – chicago, united states alexander, usa – leica m262 walter, seattle – @imagerwalt dickson – san francisco, usa douglas @dbprovencher jim – kentucky bil, los angeles – @bilbrown oleg deanna – @deannabittker oliver berlin – @streetphotographyguy henri/harry, nha trang, vietnam jeff, united states of america alan, united states of america alex, united states of america – leica m-a hlynur, iceland – @hlynur_torfason – fujifilm x100t alexander – fujifilm x70 veronica, italy – olympus e-m5ii jose, mexico – fujifilm xt1 jose, mexico- fujifilm xe2 a.a., saudi arabia- fujifilm x100t @litratongkalye_ a.a., saudi arabia- @litratongkalye_ sundo- leica m3, @instasundo dave – fujifilm x100 haptic moving forward cindy hand carving a photography by eric kim for “the city of angels” art portfolio moving forward, we are focusing on hapticpress — to publish more art, books, and guides to inspire and empower our artists and photographers. we wish to build a platform of mutual empowerment, and to also hopefully feature your work one day. we are also building up the eric kim forum — your new home to improve, grow, and learn as a photographer and artist. we thank you so much for building this positive community of sharing, growth, and openness. let’s continue to ride this creative wave together. always, cindy & eric saigon, 2017 henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta