skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search store happy 2019 from cindy & eric! photo journal by haptic haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > what is haptic? haptic means ‘relating to the sense of touch and proprioception.’ haptic honors the meaning of ‘touch’ by making artistic tools, educational resources, and collaborative platforms. haptic also inspires the making of art that touches others and uplifts our spirits. 1. creative playground for poetically subversive artists and their work. featuring eric kim: city of angels, dark skies over tokyo, laughing lady annette kim: vitruvian camera, shoot film, memento mori sean lotman, takashi nakagawa, cindy nguyen 2. publisher of empowering educational materials. freshly pressed are creative every day & masters. locally printed in small batches and personally shipped from california. all purchases help to support open source education on the blog. creative every day masters print edition volume 1 see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > embark on your eternal return to creative every day by picking up a limited edition copy of creative every day on amazon or in our shop (we ship anywhere in the world!). creative everyday spread creative every day is your artistic toolkit with philosophical and practical tools to learn to photograph, draw, write and express your creative spirit. we create information tools (books like street notes, film notes, and photo journal) to give you inspiration to spur you to create more art. also, we are venturing into mobile technologies, like street notes mobile & kindle edition — for you to always have inspiration with you. experiments in small limited edition, hand crafted tools eric kim x henri neck strap cindy x henri wrist strap by eric kim. kyoto 2017 josh white x eric kim strap see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > story of henri strap & eric kim strap all of our leather products — the henri collection (neck strap, wrist strap, wrist strap pro, shoulder strap, chroma) and eric kim collection (wrist strap, neck strap) are 100% leather and handmade and crafted with care from start to finish. each henri strap is hand-made by two of our friends, lan and uyen who are a leather craftsmen and artists in saigon. we design and develop the aesthetic concept of each strap and work closely work with the artisans lan and uyen. lan and uyen source the leather, handmake the straps during the weekdays between music gigs, and ship them to california from saigon. rather than mass produced, these are handmade in small, limited-quantity batches in order to preserve a level of excellent craftsmanship and quality. each strap is unique. once they get to california, eric and i, (and now with the help of our loving and supportive family–sorry mom for taking over the dining room table…) work to quality check, finish, and package each strap: i designed the packaging of each product (i love boxes). the labeling is hand-stamped! why buy from haptic aka cindy & eric? eric with the henri mark iii in phantom black cindy with the henri mark iii in mahogany brown unlike huge, anonymous factories, this is the entire operation: eric, me, my family, lan, and uyen. we are transparent about the labor practices behind the straps because we are proud and love each product we make. we live in vietnam currently and are very cognizant of global inequality, especially in labor practices. this is why we price our products the way we do. we want to give a fair and respectful wage to everyone involved. we do not run a wholesale factory, but support honest and beautiful work. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you we know there are so many other straps and camera accessories to choose from, so we thank you for choosing to support us! who is haptic? haptic press box x cindy nguyen fulfills her childhood dream of a box company haptic is the brainchild of director cindy nguyen. “my dream is to build a community of playing, making, and sharing. i do not know what to call this, but for the time being let’s say it’s an experimental playground. not quite a collective, gallery, or industry, but just a space to “fux wit it.” come and leave as you please. make this your own space.” – cindy nguyen erickim & cindynguyen x vitruvian camera artwear each of our art, products, and platforms is a labor of love. many hours, work, money, and thought go into each piece of haptic. we are a collaboration and expression of our families, friends, artists, and the community here. from the bottom of our hearts, thank you for your love and support. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic videos by cindy nguyen learn more women of haptic. haptic industries mission statement haptic the place to be on haptic by eric kim introducing haptic (august 2016) see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > connect for questions and collaborations, contact cindy at hapticindustries@gmail.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta