login "i wish to preach, not the doctrine of ignoble ease, but the doctrine of the strenuous life." theodore roosevelt the strenuous life will help you put your abstract intentions into action. learn more 1 what is the strenuous life? the strenuous life is a platform for those who wish to revolt against our age of ease, comfort, and existential weightlessness. it is a base of operations for those who are dissatisfied with the status quo and want to connect with the real world through the acquisition of skills that increase their sense of autonomy and mastery. it's for those who desire more challenge. who want to stretch themselves and do hard things. who want to experience life firsthand rather than secondhand. the strenuous life pushes members to take action on these desires to live more strenuously, and holds members accountable in their goal of becoming better men. it facilitates the training of mind, body, and soul, motivating members to leave the strata of mediocrity and attain to greater excellence and service in the world. be the first to know when enrollment opens first name * email * will you answer the call of the new strenuous age? badges the strenuous life encourages its members to expand their autonomy, agency, and connection with the tangible world by acquiring new skills - both the hard and the soft. earn 50+ badges that represent 50+ different skills. some of them are easier to achieve and others are real doozies, but all are fun to work on and will get you taking action, having more firsthand experiences, and increasing your competence, confidence, and enjoyment of life. here's just a sampling of the badges you can earn on the strenuous life: sharpshooter scout gentleman scholar firemanship entrepreneur mountain ranger social dynamo lock picker sartorialist rucking and many more! physical fitness physical fitness plays an integral role in the strenuous life. development of the body serves as a foundation for the development of one’s mental and spiritual capacities. as adherents of the strenuous life, we work out not merely to attain aesthetic effects (though this can be a wonderful byproduct), or because it feels good (though it definitely does), or even because it’s crucial for good health (which it assuredly is). we exercise our bodies to enhance our ability to think clearly, to master temptations and weaknesses, and to serve others. in short, we become strong to be useful. the strenuous life will provide you the tools, resources, and accountability to help you achieve that goal. weekly agons in ancient greece, the agon was a struggle or contest that would test a man’s bodily or mental toughness and prowess in athletics, art, music, debate, and more. in the strenuous life, weekly agons are challenges designed to push you out of your comfort zone. at the end of each week, you will receive a link in an email where you can view that week’s agon. each week’s agon will encourage you to break out of your routine and do something a little different from what you usually do. along the way, you’ll pick up new habits, learn new skills, and further your development in body, mind, and/or spirit. after completing the agons required for the 12-week challenge, strenuous life members receive a whole nother year’s worth of them. that’s 52 chances to grow and become a better man. (and you can of course repeat those 52 agons each year thereafter!) training the soul the strenuous life is a revolt against the self-indulgent ethos that only looks out for oneself. we exhort men to have noble and good aims and to daily strive after them, even when it’s inconvenient. virtue, duty, and service over self-gratification. selfless self-improvement is our mantra. as we seek to become more fit, skilled, temperate, frugal, patient, courageous, resolute, and honest, we strengthen and improve our families, communities, and country. the strenuous life will provide you with the structure and accountability to train your soul so you can become a better leader and mentor to those around you. accountability when you sign up for the strenuous life, you’ll be assigned to an online class of men who will push you to be your best and hold you accountable during your 12-week initiation into the program. in addition to being your fellow travelers during this “boot camp” phase, your classmates will also be your competitors. each class will have a leaderboard that indicates their progress in living the strenuous life. compete for bragging rights on who is living most strenuously. the strenuous life also facilities in-person meet-ups between tsl members in the same local area. get together with like-minded men in your local chapter to learn skills, serve, camp, hike, and tackle all kinds of challenges. member perks as a member of the strenuous life, you’ll have access to exclusive discounts to services and products that will help you live more strenuously. partners include goruck, starting strength online coaching, atomic athlete, online great books, and more! your 12-week initiation into the cult of strenuosity everyone who joins the strenuous life will begin their membership by undergoing a 12-week “boot camp” called the strenuous life challenge. the challenge is designed to initiate you into what we like to call “the cult of strenuosity.” it’s designed to stretch you physically, mentally, and morally, jumpstart your commitment to living more vigorously, and immerse you in tsl culture. what you'll get when you sign up lifetime access to the exclusive, members-only tsl platform the exclusive, members-only strenuous life platform offers: a social network-like platform. create a profile and interact with other members in the forum. geographic forum groups to facilitate in-person meet-ups. find other strenuous lifers in your area to hang out with in “meat space.” camaraderie. when you sign up, you’ll be assigned to a 150-member “class” of like-minded comrades who will help support your commitment to living more strenuously. accountability. not only will your classmates help keep you accountable to your goals, each day you’ll be asked to check in and answer two questions: 1) did you do 60 minutes of physical activity today? and 2) did you perform a good deed today? competition. tsl is structured as a friendly competition. each agon, badge, and physical activity and good deed check-in you complete will be tallied on your class leaderboard. compete for honor as to who is living the most strenuously. exclusive access to the strenuous life store. purchase exclusive swag, like actual physical badges. exclusive partner discounts. access discounts on products and services that can help you live more strenuously. our partners include goruck, starting strength, atomic athlete, and online great books, and more. free e-copy of the strenuous life handbook. the handbook includes the principles of the program, all the badges and requirements, and a series of action-inspiring “manvotionals.” (you’ll also get a physical copy of the handbook in your tsl welcome box; see details below.) lifetime access to a structured, easy-to-use badge-earning system are you tired of endlessly skimming through content in your social media feeds, but never acting on it? are you tired of looking at pictures of other people’s experiences instead of having your own? are you tired of reading about cool and interesting skills, but never getting around to learning them yourself? are you tired of living life secondhand rather than firsthand? if you’ve wanted to take more action in your life -- if you’ve wanted to learn cool skills, but haven’t known where to start -- the strenuous life is for you. the heart of the strenuous life is about turning your good intentions into real, visceral, primary experiences. finally getting off the sidelines and onto the field. a big part of this mission is accomplished through our structured, easy-to-use badge-earning system. it’s been purposefully designed to offer direction in your personal development and facilitate challenging yet fun skill acquisition. as a member of the strenuous life, you’ll have access to 50+ badges representing 50+ hard and soft skills. each badge has a set of clearly delineated requirements that have been thoughtfully created to get you competent in the skill that badge represents. the tsl platform allows you to neatly track your progress on these requirements, and check them off as you complete them. once you’ve finished all the requirements, you’ll earn a digital badge to proudly display on your profile page, and you’ll be granted access to purchasing a real, physical version of the badge from the tsl store. for over a century now, people have wanted a scouting program for adults. it’s finally arrived. weekly agons (challenges) the strenuous life won’t just propel you towards challenging, firsthand experiences through the badge system, but through the weekly agons as well. in ancient greece, the agon was a struggle or contest that would test a man’s bodily or mental toughness and prowess in athletics, art, music, debate, and more. in the strenuous life, weekly agons are challenges designed to push you out of your comfort zone and further your development in body, mind, and/or spirit. at the end of each week, you will receive a link in an email where you can view that week’s agon. should you accept and complete this mission, you can mark it off on the tsl platform, and this achievement is recorded on your class leaderboard. new strenuous life members will receive a year’s worth of weekly agons. that’s 52 chances to grow and become a better man. (and you can of course repeat those 52 agons each year thereafter!) onboarding emails and your strenuous life welcome kit when you sign up for the strenuous life, you will be sent a series of onboarding emails that offer clear, easy-to-understand instructions on how to use the platform. you will also receive 4 exclusive videos, containing motivating talks by brett mckay to keep you inspired in living strenuously. every strenuous life member will also receive a welcome kit to help jumpstart their journey in living more strenuously. the kit includes: a free, exclusive strenuous life pt uniform (t-shirt and shorts) for your daily physical activity requirements a free physical copy of the strenuous life handbook – a handsome, pocket-sized book, styled like the scouting manuals of old a personally signed welcome letter from brett mckay (no robo-signer used here) a personally signed official strenuous life membership card (because official membership cards are cool) the strenuous life welcome box contains over $70 worth of product, but it's yours free plus free shipping when you sign up for a lifetime membership in the strenuous life. the strenuous life challenge: your 12-week initiation into the cult of strenuosity everyone who joins the strenuous life will begin their membership by undergoing a 12-week “boot camp” called the strenuous life challenge. the challenge is designed to initiate you into what we like to call “the cult of strenuosity.” it’s designed to stretch you physically, mentally, and morally, jumpstart your commitment to living more vigorously, and immerse you in tsl culture. you will learn to embrace friction. you will learn how to get outside of your head. you will learn to relish doing hard things. the strenuous life challenge begins the saturday after you register, and consists of three parts: earning at least one badge during the 12-week “boot camp” period. choose from any of the 50+ badges available to earn. completing the first 12 weekly agons sent to you. these first agons are foundational ones, designed to get you immersed in the habits of strenuosity. one agon will be sent to you each week, and you must complete 12/12 of these to complete the strenuous life challenge. if you cannot complete one of the weekly agons during this period, there will be an opportunity to do one "make-up" agon to reach the required 12 completions within the 12-week period. completing 75% of your daily physical activity and good deed check-ins during the 12-week challenge period. strenuous life recruits who complete these 3 requirements will receive (for free) an exclusive strenuous life challenge coin that you can't get your hands on any other way. it will serve as a tangible reminder of your commitment to leaving behind comfort, ease, and mediocrity and doing hard things. collin d., class 027 as a young man with big aspirations, there is nothing more appealing than a structured platform for guided personal growth. living in a day with the internet and all its bounty of information from anyone and everyone with an opinion, it is easy to drown in an ocean of fleeting inspiration and ever-changing goals and ideals. i found myself constantly shifting from goal to goal, and never really making much progress in any of them. the strenuous life provided the structure, good reasoning, and kick-in-the-butt inspiration i needed to start setting and reaching realistic goals for the right reasons, and now i'm on a path to true discipline. i am happy to be a part of something that makes so much sense and is so needed in the world today. i'm proud to be living strenuously. the strenuous life has changed my life in ways that i can’t even begin to explain. it pushes your mind and body to not only tap into their potential to do hard things, but to also welcome those challenges and enjoy them. participating in tsl has given me confidence that i have never really felt before and it has given me an edge to live my life to the fullest. mason t., class 027 joe b, class 026 the strenuous life challenge has made a huge impact on my life! the 12 weeks of the “boot camp” helped me find the direction and purpose that i’ve been missing in my life. i’m doing things i never thought i’d do and always looking for ways to be a more strenuous man. it’s made my marriage even happier than it was already. my wife saw the changes in me, saw the fun i was having, and started joining me on the adventures! i can’t wait to see the next agon! joining the strenuous life has been a strong personal step forward to a more fulfilling lifestyle. incorporating actions from tsl into my daily and weekly routines are small things that have significantly impacted myself and those around me. waking up each morning striving to be physically active and looking for what good i can do each day has become second nature and i feel healthier in mind and body as a result. without revealing any spoilers, the weekly challenges have pushed me outside of my comfort zone and strengthened my self-discipline. i have surprised myself with some of things i did not think i could do, and i continue to repeat some of these actions even after the week is through. the badges are longer-term challenges that can lead to developing a new skill or interest, and it is fun to include family and friends in these objectives as well. with a little effort and commitment, tsl can serve as a guide to sharpening your mind and body, increasing your skills and diversity, and becoming an active member in your community. harrison m., class 023 1 2 3 4 read 200+ more testimonials answers to frequently asked questions what is the strenuous life? the strenuous life is a structured program designed to push individuals beyond their comfort zone and develop every aspect of who they are. adherents are expected to train their bodies with vigorous exercise, train their minds and muscles by learning new skills, and train their souls by living a life of service-seeking virtue. in short, it’s a platform designed to facilitate skill acquisition and personal development. think of it as a scouting program for grown men. how does the strenuous life work? once you register with the strenuous life, you will have access to an online platform that will guide you through your journey in living strenuously. to help develop your skills, we’ve created 50+ badges covering skills we believe will help men live a more fulfilled life, stay ever ready for any scenario, and be of greater service to others. you will find the requirements for each badge and a platform to track your progress on strenuouslife.co. to help increase your fitness, strenuous life members will be asked to check in as to whether or not they’ve done at least one hour of physical activity each day. moreover, to hold you accountable in your journey of living a life of service-seeking virtue, members also check in for doing a daily good deed. link one successful check-in to another to form a visible streak on your profile page that you'll want to keep extending. tsl’s badges and fitness and daily good deed check-ins will all motivate you to develop yourself in body, mind, and spirit. but there’s one more element designed to bolster your training: the weekly agon. in the strenuous life, weekly agons are challenges designed to push you out of your comfort zone. at the end of each week, you will receive a link in an email where you can view that week’s agon. each week's agon will encourage you to break out of your routine and do something a little different from what you usually do. along the way, you'll pick up new habits, learn new skills, and further your development in body, mind, and/or spirit. after completing the agons required for the 12-week challenge, strenuous life members receive a whole nother year’s worth of them. that’s 52 chances to grow and become a better man. (and you can of course repeat those 52 agons each year thereafter!) besides the structure, the strenuous life provides accountability and motivation by putting you into a class of 175 other members with whom you’ll encourage and compete for bragging rights in living the strenuous life. what happens after the strenuous life challenge? hopefully, by the end of the 12-week strenuous life challenge, you’ll have gotten into the habit of living strenuously. after it’s over, you can continue to earn badges, check off your daily physical activity and good deeds, and interact with your classmates. we also encourage you, if you haven't already, to get active in your local tsl group, attending meet-ups to complete agons and on strenuous saturday -- the third saturday of every month and the official meet-up day for tsl members. on ss, members are encouraged to get together with other members in their local area to work on badges, do a physical activity, or perform community service. we will also continue sending you new weekly agons for the next 52 weeks. when it's all said and done, you will get a whole year's worth of agons designed to push you in mind, body, and spirit. individuals who have shown their dedication to living the strenuous life by completing 52/52 of these agons will be eligible for a special award. to the persistent! how does the strenuous life provide accountability? trying to change your life on your own is hard. having a support system and accountability helps significantly. the accountability offered by the strenuous life begins with its two daily check-in questions. each day members are asked whether they’ve done 60 minutes of physical activity and whether they’ve performed a good deed. affirmative answers are tallied and reflected on their class leaderboard. accountability also arises from tsl’s class structure. when you register with the strenuous life, you will be assigned to a class. this will be your digital company as you undertake the 12-week challenge. each class will cap at about 175 members. we want to keep these groups relatively small to ensure that guys can get to know each other and that no one gets lost in the digital ether. each class will have a forum where comrades can interact with each other. your class is where you can share what you are working on in the strenuous life and ask for advice on things you are struggling with. treat your class like a “mastermind” by sharing your big picture goals and asking your compatriots to hold you accountable to them. in addition to being your fellow travelers in the strenuous life, your classmates will also be your competitors. each class will have a leaderboard that indicates the number of badges, agons, and physical and good-deed check-ins each classmate has completed. compete for bragging rights on who is living most strenuously. you can also join groups based on your geography to coordinate and meet up with other strenuous life members in your local area. do i get to decide which class i am in? no. classes are created on a first-come, first-serve basis. during an enrollment period, we will populate classes with new members as they sign up. once a class fills with 175 members, a new class will be created and populated. if at the end of an enrollment period, a class only has 50 or fewer members, we will manually assign and distribute those members between already filled classes. if you would like to ensure that you and a buddy are in the same class, you will need to coordinate when you sign-up so you do it at the same time. will i get a physical badge after i’ve completed all the requirements for a badge? once you’ve completed all the requirements for a badge, a digital badge will be displayed on your profile and be reflected in your class leaderboard. you will also be eligible to purchase a physical version of that badge from the strenuous life store. you can only buy a badge if you've marked off the requirements on the strenuous life platform. once you are eligible, you can buy as many of that badge as you want. every new strenuous life member will receive a coupon code good for one free badge in the strenuous life store. how do you make sure people do not cheat at this? everything in the strenuous life operates on the honor system. when it comes to the physical activity and good deed check-ins, the achievement of the agons, and the earning of badges, members are on their honor as to whether they did these things or not. if they lie, fudge, or hedge in a way they know deep down is wrong, they cheat their classmates, and most importantly, they cheat themselves out of getting better. cheating is controlled by conscience and the oversight of a member’s fellow classmates. we ask members to guard their honor strenuously. does this require access to outdoors or wilderness areas? some of the weekly agons will have you getting outside into nature. if you live an urban area, this could pose a challenge, but it's not impossible to overcome. it will just require some extra planning, creativity, or initiative. we've had members in cities like nyc, chicago, los angeles, and london successfully complete the 12-week challenge. does the strenuous life require special equipment? the weekly agons don't require any special equipment. with some of the badges you may need to purchase things to complete the requirements (e.g., if you're completing a requirement for the handyman badge, you'll probably need to buy supplies from the hardware store), but for the most part you won't need anything that you don't already have lying around. can women sign up for the strenuous life? the strenuous life is an offshoot of the art of manliness. consequently, it is geared towards men. with that said, nothing prevents a woman from registering with the strenuous life. i could have said "no girlz allowed" and a woman could have just said they were a man and signed up anyway. on the internet, nobody knows you’re a dog, or a lady. the physical standards on badges will not be modified for women. we are equal opportunity-ists around here. i have a physical disability. can i participate in the strenuous life? sure! while we will not lay out in detail exceptions to specific disabilities, we encourage members to use their "practical wisdom" to modify requirements based on their circumstance so that they get as close to both the letter and spirit of the strenuous life as they can. the guiding principle for fulfilling requirements here at tsl is to “err on the side of doing more rather than less.” challenge yourself, push yourself. that’s the framework. how you decide to work within that framework is up to you. it’s all based on honor, and you are welcome to participate to whatever extent you are able. with that said, some requirements do not provide much room for flexibility. consequently, the completion of some agons (and thus the strenuous life challenge) as well as some badges may not be possible for those with certain disabilities. how much does it cost? you might be thinking, “this sounds awesome. but how much is this going to cost?” we like to keep things simple around here. no reoccurring subscription fees and no nickel and diming you to unlock features. just a single, one-time payment that gives you lifetime access to the strenuous life platform and any and all updates that we make to the program. so what's the nut for the strenuous life? price: $199.99 if you use tsl every day for a year, you get all this for just 55 cents a day. less than you would spend on a daily coffee or soda. 55 cents a day for motivation, direction, and accountability to become a better, more useful, and fulfilled human being. you can't beat that. speaking with other folks who offer similar membership programs/courses, many thought i was severely undervaluing tsl with this price, and suggested that i double it. after all, similar online platforms cost twice as much for a single year, and all you get is access to the online platform. with the strenuous life, you get lifetime access, plus you receive $100 of free product – actual tangible gear you can hold and feel and enjoy. why charge for the strenuous life? couldn’t you just make it free like the art of manliness? first, we want the strenuous life to be ad-free – free of distractions. the membership fee will help keep the lights on and allow us to continue to improve and grow the platform. second, charging people acts as a filter against trolls and other scalawags who make online interactions terrible. most trolls aren't willing to pay money to troll. finally, the membership fee puts some skin in the game. we really want you to do this stuff. when things are free, most people just take it for granted and don't do anything with it. when you know you're paying money to be a part of the strenuous life, you're more likely to actually do the program lest you put your money in the metaphorical paper shredder. is this open to people outside the united states? yes. january enrollment is now closed. be the first to know when enrollment opens in the spring first name * email * home terms of service login copyright © 2018 the strenuous life, llc privacy preference center options consent management settings cookie consent management lorem ipsum thank you for visiting https://strenuouslife.co/. your privacy is important to strenuous life. as such, strenuous life provides this privacy policy (“privacy policy”) which describes its practices in connection with information collected through your use of the site. this privacy policy is incorporated into and is a part of strenuous life’s terms. as set forth in its terms, the site is not intended for nor designed to attract children under thirteen (13) years of age. strenuous life does not knowingly collect information from children under thirteen (13) years of age. if you do not agree with this privacy policy, you should refrain from accessing or using the site. you must expressly agree to this privacy policy and strenuous life’s collection of information, as described below, in order to utilize the site and your account. collection of information when you complete the membership registration form, create an account (“your account”), and utilize the site, strenuous life asks for certain information (“information”) from you, including: • contact information, such as your name, email address, mailing address, phone number, and date of birth. this information is used to setup your account, confirm your age, confirm your credit card for customer service support, to enable strenuous life to provide services to you, including provision of your welcome kit, processing any orders from strenuous life’s online store, and providing other services and notifications to you, as well as contact you for customer service purposes. we also store your email address in our email service, infusionsoft. this allows us to send you the weekly agons as well as any other updates to the platform and program. infusionsoft uses cookies to track whether you’ve opened or clicked on an email. we use this information for troubleshooting as well as improving user experience. • unique identifiers, such as your username and password. this information is collected so that you may maintain your account and utilize the site and associated services. • billing information, such as credit card number, expiration date, security code, and billing address. this information is passed to our payment gateway (stripe.com) to process your purchase. the last 4 digits of your credit card number, the expiration date, and your email are saved by our payment processing gateway (stripe.com) to use for reference for any customer service issues that may arise. this information is further collected so that strenuous life may process your membership fee and prepopulate the checkout form for future purchases. • user content, such as information, data, text, software, sound, photographs, graphics, video, messages, comments, tags, or other materials that you create and actively, upload, post, or submit to the site. this information is actively provided by you, and is collected by the strenuous life in order to allow the site and program to function as intended. • cookies when you are logged into your account, we utilize cookies to track some of your activity on the site including logins, visits, and page views so that we can continually improve the site and provided services. • ip address. this information is collected when you make a purchase from the strenuous life’s online store for tax collection verification. in addition to the specific uses of your information, strenuous life may use your information for measuring, improving, and optimizing those services and features and developing new products and services and delivering content you may find relevant and interesting, including advertising and marketing messages disclosure of information strenuous life may outsource certain things and contract with third parties to perform services on strenuous life’s behalf including, without limitation, facilitating aspects of the site, marketing and advertising, sending e-mail to you, and handling account billings, collections, and renewals. these third-party companies may be supplied with or have access to your information. strenuous life may also disclose and use your information in special circumstances where it believes in good faith that such disclosures (i) are required by law, including, for example, to comply with a court order or subpoena; (ii) will help to enforce the terms; (iii) will protect your safety or security, including the safety and security of property that belongs to you; or (iv) protect the safety and security of the site, strenuous life, its affiliates, or third parties. if strenuous life sells all or part of its business or makes a sale or transfer of its assets or is otherwise involved in a merger or transfer of all or a material part of its business (including in connection with a bankruptcy or similar proceedings), strenuous life may transfer your information to the party or parties involved in the transaction as part of that transaction. security strenuous life uses commercially reasonable administrative, technical, and physical measures to safeguard information in its possession against loss, theft and unauthorized use, disclosure or modification. however, no one can guarantee the complete safety of your information. you acknowledge this and accordingly transmit such information at your own risk and agree that strenuous life will not be liable for any damages or injury that may result from unauthorized access to or use of your information. user access and control if you would like to access, review, correct, update, suppress, or otherwise limit strenuous life’s use of your information you have previously provided directly to us on a going-forward basis, please contact us. in your request, please include your email address, name, address, and telephone number and specify clearly what information you would like to access, change, update, or suppress. strenuous life will try to comply with your request as soon as reasonably practicable. strenuous life gives you many choices regarding its use and disclosure of your information for marketing purposes. if you no longer want to receive marketing-related emails from strenuous life on a going-forward basis, you may opt-out of receiving these marketing-related emails by following the unsubscribe instructions in the email. you may also cancel your account as provided in the terms. even after you cancel your account, however, copies of some information may remain viewable in some circumstances. strenuous life may also retain backup information related to your account on its servers for some time after cancelation. because of the nature of caching technology, your account may not be instantly inaccessible to others, and there may be a delay in the removal of the content from elsewhere on the internet and from search engines. updates to privacy policy strenuous life may modify the privacy policy, or any part thereof, at any time. modifications to the privacy policy shall be effective immediately upon posting. strenuous life will announce changes of the privacy policy on the site. your use of the site after such posting shall be deemed to constitute acceptance by you of any such modifications. location of data the site is hosted in and managed from within the united states. if you are a user located outside the united states, you understand and consent to having any information processed in the united states. united states data protection and other relevant laws may not be the same as those in your jurisdiction. this includes the use of cookies and other tracking technologies as described above. in certain circumstances, courts, law enforcement agencies, regulatory agencies or security authorities in the united states may be entitled to access your information. as a result, please read this privacy policy with care. data retention strenuous life will retain your information for the period necessary to fulfill the purposes outlined in the terms and this privacy policy, unless a longer period is required or allowed by law. contact if you have questions about this privacy policy, please contact us at [email protected] this privacy policy was last updated on may 31, 2018. is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. cookie cookies used email ok