home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close street art guide of shoreditch, london march 24, 2020 shing yoong shoreditch in east london is home to a prolific and ever-changing street art scene. it boasts one of the highest concentrations of street art anywhere in the world so you’ll find works on almost every corner. lots of my friends live in this area of london so i’m constantly seeing new works and even old ones being painted over which can be a bummer if you’ve been fond of seeing certain ones around, but that’s also what makes wandering around shoreditch more interesting – you’re never quite sure what new things you’ll see. over the last few months i’ve been collecting photos of street art to post on here and now that i think i’ve seen the best ones around i want to share them with you. i’ve also included their locations so you can visit them too if you’re in the hood – and more importantly, once we’re out of these precarious times and some normality begins to surface again. whitby street whitby street only consists of a few buildings but it pacts a punch. most of them are covered with wall murals, including two by jimmy c (real name james cochran) sitting side by side. the first mural has been around since 2012 which is a life-time in the transitory world of street art. as you will notice by looking at a lot of his work (most famously a mural of david bowie in brixton) there’s a nod to impressionism which for jimmy was inspired by aboriginal dot style art found in his motherland, australia. however, in one of his latest pieces entitled psyche (2019) on the neighbouring building it features a striking portrait of a female subject surrounded by and consumed by a flock of birds in a looser style and set to a limited colour palette compared to most of his works which offer a spectrum of bright colours. a little bit further down i spotted some amusing ones, in particular of the current president of america, donald trump, aka the tangerine tyrant! i’m sure you’ll see other politically charged pieces that capture the zeitgeist of brexit britain and other societal concerns that artists want to get off their chests. ebor street around the corner from whitby street is ebor street which consists of murals by ben eine who is known for his typefaces. currently, ‘love’ is spelled out in different fonts but he’s been working on this wall for the last 10 years so murals are old and new and created for the purpose of promoting positivity. there’s also a cool neon piece by david speed who is one of the co-founders of graffiti life which was set up in 2010 with a clear vision of promoting public art. ten years on they probably would never have guessed of their success, having not only been involved in many workshops, community projects and live art, but also working with some of the world’s biggest brands. holywell lane up next is one of my favourite wall murals and it’s by dale grimshaw. it features his signature subject style of strongly tribal subjects, fused with bright colours and motifs. every time i walk along holywell lane, i stop to admire it. i want to also include work by french-born street artist thierry noir whose brightly painted heads are scattered around shoreditch, but who you might already recognise in cities all around the world. he is best known for reportedly being the first artist to paint the berlin wall which he lived opposite in a squat during the 1980s. at the time it was a controversial act but soon became a symbol of defying communism and was joined by other artists such as the late keith haring in showing that the wall was not built forever and could be changed. king john court by walking to the end of holy well lane you’ll come to king john court and there you’ll be greeted by one of the largest wall murals in london. a mural so large took it 16 artists to complete and was commissioned by a telecommunications company who set the theme of connectivity – a pretty spot on subject matter, eh? i guess that’s what you call good marketing. it’s interesting to see each artist’s interpretation of connectivity with some more tangible than others. crooked billet yard around the corner from king john court is a bold installation piece that reads ‘oi! can we have our art back?’. i don’t know who created it and i can only interpret what the artist means, but i think the question is about the rapid gentrification of the area. for years east london has been popular among creatives due to cheaper rent, but like other places in london this is no longer true and increased rent has forced some people who originally lived there out, and prevented creative types moving in. brick lane now let’s head to brick lane, a street that’s well-known among those of us who aren’t london dwellers. it’s long been popular for its stream of independent shops from book sellers to bagel shops to vintage clothes stores and curry restaurants (though i recommend heading to whitechapel for london’s best curry places fyi). anyway, back to street art. it’s easy to get distracted by all the markets and shops so remember to look at the walls which are full of little works comprising of stencils, sticker art, poster art and tiny sculptures. buxton street buxton street is one of the many smaller streets that veers onto brick lane and is home to a collage of street art, much of which is political once you take the time to look at them in closer detail. new works are often added to the wall whilst older ones have begun to peel off to create something of a scrap book. worth a particular mention is the purple female sculpture created by urban solid. however, the art changes often on this wall so expect it to look different if you visit. hope you’ve enjoyed seeing what the walls have to offer in shoreditch, and if you’re interested in seeing more street art all across the city, checking my street art guide to london. enjoy searching for street art in london! facebook twitter tumblr pinterest hi, i’m shing from the uk and i live in london. welcome to my travel blog – the culture map. you’ll find tips, guides, recommendations and the odd misadventure from my travels that span over 50 countries and 6 continents. i’ve written about many places, but in my archive there’s a strong focus on scandinavia and the arctic. prevprevioustravel advice and information during the coronavirus pandemic i would love to hear your thoughts! cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send