home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty personal finance competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding the student money-saving tips i wish i’d known miss thrifty3 september 23, 2016 it’s that time of year again: the students arrive at university, the student finance loans hit their accounts, shiny new student bank cards hit wallets – and all that money trickles out again, like water through a sieve. university life can be expensive: those graduating from universities in england now have average debts of £44,000 each. if you follow me on facebook, you will know that i recently wrote a post for matalan’s blog, with some of my top money-saving tips for students. my number one piece of advice? don’t bother keeping up with the student joneses: it doesn’t matter who you are, where you are studying or with whom you are hanging out: i can guarantee that you will meet students with budgets that dwarf yours, and others who spend money like water. don’t try to keep up with their spending: it simply isn’t worth it. you wouldn’t believe how quickly a debt-ridden lifestyle can come to feel normal. when it doesn’t seem like such a big deal anymore to borrow more money, begin racking up purchases on a credit card or begin spending your next student loan instalment before it arrives, you enter a danger zone of escalating debt. debts are tough to live with and they take a long time to pay back, so don’t spend frivolously – in the long run, you’ll regret it. (you can find the rest of my tips here.) i’ve seen a substantial amount of advice for new students floating about in the past couple of weeks. some of it is good, but some of it is woeful. for example my pal jenni, over at can’t swing a cat, spotted one web article advising new students to set up a joint bank account with their new housemates. having collected my jaw from the floor, i am noping on out of there – for all the reasons jenni describes. however there are also some tip-top recommendations out there, including some money-saving advice i wish i’d had when i became a university student. i’ve rounded up the best here: 1. don’t squander your student loan on fripperies. i can’t believe i’m even having to write that. according to research from nationwide, however, two-thirds of students spend loan money on “nice clothes” and a third spend student loan money on holidays. this isn’t just a dumb way to spend money you don’t have, it also stores up unnecessary problems down the line… 2. …student loans are big and ubiquitous – but they still count as big ol’ d.e.b.t.. recent research from the pensions and lifetime savings association revealed that more than half of 18-35 year olds with a student loan don’t consider that loan to be “debt.” almost two thirds believe a student loan will not count against them when applying for a mortgage. i understand that property ownership – that distant pipe dream – isn’t on a lot of students’ radars. however the presumption that down the line, a student loan wouldn’t affect your mortgage application, is downright mistaken. student debt doesn’t affect your credit rating – but that isn’t the same thing. since 2014, lenders have been permitted to incorporate student loan repayments into mortgage affordability calculations. in other words: student loan repayments may affect your eligibility for a mortgage. once you have graduated, get cracking on your student loan as soon as you are able: pay that beast down! 3. before you take out contents insurance, check you aren’t covered already… i always recommend contents insurance for students: halls of residence and shared houses aren’t always as secure as they should be, and can provide rich pickings for burglars. however one insurer, nfu mutual, has emailed me to point out that 78% of home insurance products cover students’ belongings as standard. what does this mean? it means you could well be covered under your parents’ contents insurance, without needing to take out a policy of your own. do check the small print though – and double-check that your expensive and essential gadgets, such as your computer and smartphone, are included. 4. work out your costs and see what grants you can get, with this clever tool take a look at the brightside student calculator. it is free to use and, for those who are new to budgeting and money-saving, it is brilliant. if your budget doesn’t add up, you need to know sooner rather than later. if you are headed for the red, brightside will also show you where you can cut back. 5. take advantage of this tv licence loophole you don’t have to purchase a tv license if you: live with your parents outside term-time watch bbc iplayer on a battery-powered laptop or mobile device, which isn’t charging at the time more information here. when i was a student, tv licensing tried to come down heavy on us, sending terse letters to every student in my halls of residence, so this loophole is good to know. if you know somebody who is about to start university, please share this post with them. a new chapter in life is always as exciting as it is scary, but a few minutes’ reading could save an awful lot of money (and sanity) down the line. image: ali eminov / flickr cc by-nc 2.0 did you enjoy this post? share the love miss thrifty on: free daily digest get the latest posts and deals by emails: 3 responses to “the student money-saving tips i wish i’d known” george @ dontpayfull.com says: i am a teacher and this article is the one of the best i have seen. i will use your post for my students. than you for sharing november 4, 2016 at 12:18 am udemy language courses says: awesome tips! it is very helpful for those students who want to save their money.i also want to learn more thing in short time then i find udemy language courses which give online learning course in cheapest price.i also purchased from here by using promo codes and discount coupons and saves lot of money february 6, 2017 at 12:08 pm sell laptop says: i was a victim of this, thinking the money paid by sfc was free, with me now having to pay as much as 100 pounds back monthly. i wish i spent it wisely or didnt take it at all!! june 7, 2017 at 9:02 pm leave a reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked *leave a comment *your email address will not be published.your name * your email * your website get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google