skip to content college info geek study with me – a playlist of real-time study sessions menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search study with me – a playlist of real-time study sessions i’m an ardent believer in the pomodoro technique as one of the best ways to stop procrastinating and actually, you know, get some work done. i also know that it can be very motivating to work alongside someone who is also working diligently. so i’ve made some videos that combine those two things. need to get some work done? let’s do it together. the playlist on this page contains several real-time study session videos that you can use to boost your motivation to keep studying. each video has a different length – 25 minutes, 45 minutes, one hour, etc. pick the one that suits you best, or play them all in the a row if you have an especially large workload. music and ambient background noise pairings want to pair these videos with some music or ambient noise? here are a few options: the ultimate study music playlist – my personal study playlist, featuring a wide variety of genres in addition to tracks from movie, anime, and video game soundtracks sunday study – a spotify version of my study playlist brain.fm – music designed to improve your focus coffitivity – coffee shop sounds rainymood – rain sounds more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.