the onion the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop american voices study finds female mammals live longer than males you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm more from g/o media read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on trump suggests ceding new york to coronavirus as possible appeasement strategy read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on china will lift lockdown on wuhan april 8th subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe yesterday 3:52pm • see more: opinion opinionvol 56 issue 12 a large-scale study of over 100 species of mammals including orcas, reindeer, squirrels, and lions found that females live an average of 18.6% longer than their male counterparts, which may be tied to both genetic and environmental factors. what do you think? “as bad as this news is, it’s pretty cool that i have something in common with a lion.” alexander ringrose • unemployed “it’s only fair the females find ways to die earlier.” sheena levy • industrial accountant advertisement “thank god i’m not a mammal.” bart cater • mattress upholsterer share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill share tweet