catalog paths nanodegree career help for enterprise blog my classroom sign in get started intersect 2018 conference: early bird tickets now available! amazing speakers, world-class hiring partners, and more! programs career for enterprise blog my classroom sign in get started success stories from our students “this experience has absolutely changed my life — i wouldn’t have a job right now otherwise.” — oscar estrada “i think where the real value lies in udacity's approach to learning is how the people at udacity make you feel about your accomplishments.” — cheryl court “you're not just taught what to do; you're taught how to think.” — allan reyes “understanding programming now helps me to look at problems through the lens of a language, and it translates to everything i do.” — rena ansbacher “i enrolled to data analyst nanodegree to enhance my programming skills and learn something very relevant for a modern data scientist.” — igor buinyi mike "ultimately, udacity is what really became the driving force behind the career change." now at audible ryan "before udacity, i was working two minimum wage jobs. now, i have a new job, a new mindset, and new life!" now at us department of labor anthony "i completed my nanodegree program, and got a promotion at at&t" now at at&t sagarnil "udacity helped me see a whole new world that i never knew existed. today, after overcoming many challenges, i have completed two nanodegree programs, and i have a solid vision for my life." now at edupristine anand "i got my start in front-end development thanks to udacity, and this was a gateway to a new career" now at infosys limited joël "i got a promotion! i needed to upskill myself, and udacity truly helped me with that." now at responsive tech lokesh "i was a commerce student and wanted to change my career to developing for android. udacity helped me learn the everything i needed to become an android developer starting from basics to expert level." now at echosense technologies anthony "because of udacity, i was able to land a new technical role at my dream company." now at facebook germanas "after my nanodegree program, i got a new job—i went from a web analyst to product owner." now at oxontech jayashree "i got new job as a data science engineer after graduating from my nanodegree program." now at buddihealth technologies mahmoud "i started with the basics, completed a nanodegree program, and gained so much experience. i’m now in a new android job!" now at quanode jedrzej "udacity helped me discover my passion and now i love what i do!" now at bleeve isaure "while freelancing as an interior designer, i took the intro to programming nanodegree program to learn a new set of skills. it exposed me to a field of work i really enjoyed and now i work as a front-end developer." now at keeward matthew "udacity gave me the tools to advance my career—i am now spearheading a machine learning research team at my company." now at jsi telecom cy "udacity helped me find a better way of thinking that helps in every aspect of my life, and i got a new job!" now at tbsx3 izzy "udacity enabled me to fulfill my life’s dream of working from home while making a decent living." now at orthodox union kautilya "udacity helped me uncover my technical potential. i can write code and i approach problem solving with ease." now at infosys nicole "before udacity, i was a graphic designer. now, i’m working in a technical role and loving it!" now at pawi verpackungen judit "being part of something really professional gave me self-confidence: it was challenging, required my time, and i did it!" now at isrv kristin "udacity introduced me to virtual reality. i gained confidence in my own skills, and started my own company!" now at beazle bee gianni "thanks to google and udacity i've changed my job, and taken another step towards my life vision!" now at d-share next gen publishing qiaole "i’ve started a new career path, and i’m now able to practice my analytics/machine learning skills on a daily basis." now at shell global solutions guillaume "udacity gave me the confidence to start my own company!" now at velchanos kwamena "udacity allowed me to go from an e-commerce intern to ceo of my own startup in ghana." now at apex tech gh trystian "what i learned at udacity is helping me grow my career." now at medicore saurabh "in my year learning android with udacity, i've loved becoming part of this amazing community that's helped me grow." now at google summer of code intern hanson "the android nanodegree program took me from junior developer to a confident tech entrepreneur." now at start innovation hub aitor "after years working in the same job, i was able to shift careers to android development!" now at ing bank raunaq "the android nanodegree program was the best way to learn and share my knowledege of android development." now at coding blocks swati "i went from doing basic web development to building android apps for clients as a director at my company!" now at go appycodes solutions rasheed "udacity helped me learn the fundamentals of software development so i could change careers from tutoring to working as a front-end developer!" now at conarrative, inc tiago "udacity helped me transition from from web development to my first ios job!" now at petable tibor "udacity helped me understand artificial intelligence, which has enabled me to start my business cclab." now at dosell narisu "i'm a data scientist, but had limited knowledge on deep learning. udacity provided me with practical coding experience that is helping me in my job." now at packetwerk gmbh nick "udacity helped me to accomplish a complete life-altering career change from tv personality to android developer at ebay!" now at ebay yung-hsin "using what i learned from udacity, i was able to build and launch the mobile travel app i had envisioned." now at yiteben naveen "udacity gave me a new path to my programming career and huge confidence to start my own tech labs."" now at jugni labs zach "soon after completing udacity's intro to programming nanodegree program, i was able to start a new career in technology with at&t." now at at&t ezequiel "thanks to udacity, today i'm a ios lead developer!" now at btg pactual estevan "previously, i was a manager of network services at at&t. at&t had committed to big changes in our workforce; my nanodegree helped me get an apprenticeship working with the data driven portion of at&t" now at at&t abdallah "i got a full-time job after just two months with the front end web developer nanodegree." now at starwallet labs javaid "udacity helped me to learn android development, and i was able to build apps for my community and help empower them in basic education with mobile devices." now at sindh basic education program ashok "udacity gave me confidence with android concepts, best practices, good coding standards, architecture, how to use libraries, and more." now at dunst technologies pvt ltd miguel "i released my first app because udacity helped me understand the basics of ios programming" now at paranoid fan ricardo "i upskilled in my current role as a developer by learning android development with udacity; i've become more confident about my skills since then!" now at ufpb yao "learning with udacity motivated me to deepen my understanding of tech and web development, underscoring the necessity and benefits of cross-domain learning." now at condé nast international drew "i suceeded in landing a new job as a business intelligence analyst." now at aeg tugii "learning with udacity was the best decision of my life, it's helped me develop new technical expertise and now i'm a mentor at udacity." now at udacity manmeet "udacity has helped me make an app and pursue my dream of becoming an android developer." now at udacity orkhan "i now have the necessary skills and confidence to change my career path from a lawyer to an app developer." now at uae startup ben "udacity helped me gain on-the-job confidence, build a portfolio, and earn a microcredential to share with prospective employers" now at mawer tadej "i secured a new job in the exciting world of web development, and also co-founded a startup as a cto." now at everyday magic timotius "i landed on my first job as a full time android developer thanks to udacity." now at mobiroo inc. ahmed "i got a job offer at google and i finally work on things i'm excited about." now at google geoffrey "i'm using my new artificial intelligence skills to fight climate change!" now at consultant lenorre "i began a completely new career in tech after a successful career as a musician." now at voicebase, inc. casey "i learned the technical skills i needed to change careers." now at farmstead davide "changing your career at 37 can be a challenge, but my passion for programming has brought me to my role as an automation engineer and i love my new life." now at ipsoft shubham "i am now a mentor for the front-end web developer nanodegree program. now i can help other udacians grow and, in the process, learn myself!!" now at udacity waseem "i gained practical skills, technical knowledge, and a new job." now at asepsislife abhishek "with the skills i acquired, i was able to start my own iot company." now at iot startup dominic "i gained confidence in my skills and built a portfolio so that i could get a new job at nvidia as a deep learning intern." now at nvidia shivang "i gained new exposure to front-end, ios, python, and react." now at udacity sarabjeet "the android nanodegree enabled me to understand the basic concepts and how to use them, which helped me to change careers." now at powerschool fedor "udacity supported my lifelong learning online and offline, helping me join a practical learning program at a big business information technology company." now at bayer business services gmbh eric "i worked as a speech-language pathologist, and the udacity nanodegree helped me write code for my company's app." now at expressive solutions rogier "in the same year i finished my first nanodegree program, i found a job as a full stack developer at invoicefinance, a finance tech company in the netherlands." now at invoicefinance mateo "i grew quickly at my current company thanks to the skills i acquired in the nanodegree program." now at pappcorn kunal "i found a new job with a portfolio built from nanodegree projects. the best part of my udacity experience, however, was being able to give back by mentoring students who were in the same place i was not too long ago." now at infosys limited. ethan "i made a mid-career shift into the machine learning/artificial intelligence industry." now at udacity lawrence "i now have the motivation, confidence and knowledge to do more with my career." now at msd alexander "before udacity, i was an account executive. now, with my skills, i'm creating new apps and have a portfolio of work." now at lookfwd mate "after my family moved to new zealand, i enrolled in the machine learning nanodegree program and just got a new job locally!" now at offline and online media hafidz "i gained confidence in my own abilities and knowledge." now at seek international lukas "halfway through my nanodegree program, i landed a new job. udacity provided the exact industry knowledge i needed." now at peeeks power ludovic "shortly after graduating, i received an offer as a full stack developer." now at freelancer dmytro "i got a job, confidence in my skills, and a much better understanding of what's important in software development." now at f3 software michael "thanks to the new skills and projects i developed, i was able to explore the field of data science and find a job as a data scientist." now at saint software consultants fernando "i was inspired to start my own company related to machine learning and self-driving cars." now at cashflix tom "udacity helped me switch careers and secure my first role as a commercial software developer." now at 4com plc ty "before udacity, i was homeless and looking for an affordable yet quality option for learning ios. i'm now an ios engineer at varo." now at varo money suresh "udacity helped me get a new job as a machine learning engineer" now at gawk box.com rashid "udacity is what really became the driving force behind my career change. the program helped me to land my dream job as an actual "data scientist"!" now at rtlnederland khuthadzo "the skills i learned help me get a job as a senior android developer in southern africa. i'm also mentoring with a local skills development program called code tribe, teaching android concepts." now at mlab southern africa fourat "i acquired the tools to think like a developer, to be proactive, and to build a framework that helps me tackle new challenges. i'm becoming a better developer every day." now at perytonone solutions kiyo "udacity's front end and full stack nanodegree programs helped me to start a new career as a software engineer." now at cloud company sunny "the android developer nanodegree structure helped me complete my projects on time and gain confidence while pursuing my degree in computer engineering. i am now an android developer!" now at samsung india electronics alan "udacity helped me gain skills that allowed me to transition from being an intern at microsoft angola to co-founding a startup, simpluz tecnologias." now at angolan central bank ahmed "i'm really grateful to udacity. i was a student who was able to get a new job in a good company." now at codex hanan "after completing my nanodegree program, i was able to receive a promotion at quintilesims!" now at quintilesims zahier "i was enrolled in college and working part-time at a restaurant when udacity helped me to learn the skills i needed to get a job in a field i've always been interested in." now at digital insight jennie "i was a teacher before i studied with udacity. my studies helped me get accepted in a competitive bootcamp, which eventually led to a job at amazon!" now at amazon web services abdulaziz "i was able to improve my skills as a fresh college graduate and land my first job at a telecom company. one year later, i joined udacity as a course manager!" now at udacity jie "i developed the confidence to apply for positions i might otherwise have skipped. this eventually resulted in an internship with amazon!" now at amazon sarino "i built the skillset i needed to make the career change i wanted." now at google stamatis "as a college student, i completed the android developer nanodegree program and was able to land an internship!" now at softweb adaptive i.t. solutions franziskus "i was between jobs before udacity. afterwards, i was able to land my dream job as a python developer on a data science team!" now at contorion lucas "i am an android architect who was able to get a new job at a financial institution." now at bank itaú-unibanco chad "my new skills meant that i was able to successfully transition from my job as a chemical engineer to a client success manager for a high-growth software company." now at qualtrics bilal "thanks to udacity's data analyst nanodegree program, i am now working as a data analyst in one of pakistan's most reputable organizations and i am totally loving it!" now at ibex global nicola "udacity helped me gain not only a new job, but also a new awareness of my skills as an android developer. the instructors taught me a new way of looking at and learning code." now at zehus eric "with udacity, i was able to quit my sales job, complete a nanodegree program (and a half!) over the summer, and begin a new position as a front-end developer by the fall." now at stratz llc rafael "i was unemployed and studying, but after udacity was able to make the move from mechanical engineer to front-end developer." now at originalmy fábio "i completed my nanodegree program while traveling on sabbatical. now i am working on r&d projects related to digital technologies." now at petrobras mudit "udacity unlocked tremendous opportunities, providing an incredible learning experience at a reasonable rate, as well as the best possible means to engage with the program." now at fourth frontier francis "udacity helped me upgrade my skills to get a new job at at&t." now at at&t stanley "i was a full-time animator who was able to transition to ios development after building a portfolio on my github." now at interact technology nishad "while working and completing the omscs at georgia tech, i learned and improved many new skills in web development, ai, and machine learning." now at at&t nelson "jobless and couch surfing after world travels, udacity helped me get back on my feet by enabling me to work at my own speed - as fast as possible. now i am employed full time as an android software engineer." now at pocketpoints rafael "as an intern at a small startup, udacity was able to help me leap across the skills gap between myself and my team." now at bilheteriapp ahmed "by turning my udacity experience into a personal bootcamp, i was able to land an internship and then a full-time job at realtor.com." now at realtor.com abhilash "i am now working as a freelance android developer, building my own platform for my own applications." now at freelance developer iyad "udacity helped me learn what the android development industry is looking for in software engineers." now at ford motor company fernando "after working odd jobs-from construction to restaurant deliveries-udacity helped me find a path for myself and a better outlook for my future as a programmer." now at independent contractor jack "after udacity, i got a new job at a cancer detection ai start-up." now at grail alonso "the projects i completed in the nanodegree program helped me polish my knowledge of android development and find a new job." now at konfio sneh "i was an undergraduate in computer science, and udacity helped me land my dream job." now at simform llc nelmer "udacity helped me get a job as an android ui developer after two years of small gigs in delis, shoveling snow, and fixing used refrigerators." now at verifly technologies ransford "i got a new job working on performance optimizations of deep learning frameworks at intel." now at intel lukas "udacity motivated me to push myself to my limits, and i am finally building the career of my dreams." now at intern at tieto neetu "udacity helped me land my first job as a digital marketing coordinator." now at a computer supplier leticia "i was an astronomy technician when i went on maternity leave; the udacity nanodegree program allowed me to stay home with my newborn and work remotely." now at udacity max "i was a freelance copywriter and after graduating from my nanodegree program, i was able to land my first web developer job within a few weeks of starting my job search." now at spareroom mark "i was able to transition from project management to data science and became the cto of my own computer vision startup, doubledata." now at doubledata syed "udacity helped me learn and feel confident about a complex field like machine learning. now i feel like i can learn anything!" now at tenet health amisha "with udacity's help, i was hired for my first android developer position at byju's, and am now a proud member of udacity india!" now at udacity christiaan "through udacity's nanodegree program, i was able to work as a junior developer and run a small website-building startup." now at venturekpq matheus "i started my own machine learning consulting business and the nanodegree program has been very important to develop my knowledge and generate more value for my clients." now at 7d analytics calin "udacity helped me discover my true potential! i was working in supply management, but since i started to learn programming, the opportunities are endless." now at self-employed tushar "udacity provided me a platform to learn and apply the skills i learned through my nanodegree program. and yes, i was offered a job!" now at shrofile katya "the skills i learned in the machine learning nanodegree program helped me land a lead data science role before i even graduated." now at codec dania "i learned how to develop android apps from scratch which helped me land my dream job--as a course manager at udacity!" now at udacity amardeep "udacity helped me learn to code like an expert and earn recognition from my team." now at accolite software pvt. ltd. benjamin "i rekindled my passion and sharpened my skillset for technical roles, transferring from an it service manager to a big data architect." now at daimler xiang "with the help of udacity, i was able to unlock and pursue new opportunities in front-end development." now at zipari abhishek "i've transformed from a metallurgical engineer to a tech lead in a start-up that creates games for mobile platforms." now at zigbee apps private limited duy "after working as a scientific researcher for 3 years, i was able to receive my first offer outside academic research." now at otto b.v rob "udacity helped me land a sweet job at a local start-up!" now at hijinks natalia "learning the basics of android development with udacity led me to a promotion as well as offers for junior developer positions." now at atos verus "previously a freelance consultant in digital media, both the digital marketing and intro to programming nanodegree programs have helped me land a new job in community management." now at fiware.org rodrigo "the artificial intelligence nanodegree program helped me set strong foundations for continued learning on my own and gain experience in cutting edge technology." now at astropay samuel "i'm now prepared to enter the job market with confidence and a strong knowledge base." now at intcore kei "udacity helped me understand products and concepts relevant to my current company - i just moved from the chemical industry to it and, before udacity, was not familiar with it solutions." now at authlete, inc. trebuchet "i now have a foundation in machine learning knowledge. i work in the aerospace industry and needed to build these skills." now at geek consulting damián "udacity gave me the tools to develop my own skills and land a job in the tech industry by merit and not credentials." now at neodeck holdings corp. ben "udacity helped me transition from a career in mechanical engineering to a career in software development." now at athenahealth matt "udacity gave me the opportunity to solidify my machine learning knowledge and grow as a machine learning engineer" now at udacity omar "udacity helped me get an amazing job at an amazing startup." now at yallawain erika "udacity helped me switch careers from communications to software development!" now at sweetiq sylvain "i built my confidence through starting and completing a course, leading to a new career at a local software company." now at computer business andres "udacity has empowered me to build high impact solutions in a world that is becoming more competitive, intelligent and interconnected." now at internal revenue service of ecuador. madhur "udacity helped me accomplish a better skill set and get closer to my dream job." now at udacity nour "udacity gave me the real world experience i needed to get a good job." now at orange ahmed "udacity helped me to find a new passion in life - an eagerness to continue learning, not just in my field but in any other topic that i find interesting" now at vodafone chen "udacity has helped me to deepen my understanding of mobile development, which is my daily work. it also introduced me to the exciting fields of deep learning and self driving car technology." now at mathworks norbert "i developed more credibility and experience with python and git." now at jonas und der wolf gmbh david "udacity helped me land a job in a field very different from my own. moreover, it taught me how to be consistent with my studies, which benefits me in other areas of my life." now at handy sharynne "questions about my full stack nanodegree came up in 100% of my interviews. udacity opened many doors to internship opportunities and has played a huge role in kickstarting my career as a developer" now at cerner sam "i was able to get a new job as a big data engineer, which required skills that i developed while at udacity." now at cisco systems alessio "with udacity, i changed careers to become a mobile freelance developer." now at self-employed lara "after i graduated from the android fast track, i asked my company to switch to android development and they accepted. now i'm working as an android developer." now at flixbus rob "udacity helped me reinvent myself and start a new successful career." now at unicef krishna "udacity helped me to be professional and a better developer. i am constantly being commended for my contributions at work." now at infosys ltd vincent "udacity helped us offer new services to our clients by educating our developers with top-quality curriculum in data science, machine learning, and artificial intelligence." now at serpicodev ilja "udacity made me a strong, enthusiastic and confident android developer." now at hire-a-lite riccardo "after udacity i found a new job in web development" now at senic gmbh ng "udacity helped me find my passion for technology." now at udacity kaisa "udacity helped me to get a new job in an industry i am passionate about." now at citi international plc deborah "udacity helped me unleash different passions that i never even knew existed." now at udacity durga "udacity helped me to get my desired job in my dream company." now at amazon inc. antonis "udacity helped me unleash my potential, get a job, connect with like-minded people, and realize my hobby could be my passion and job." now at udacity lucas "thanks to udacity, i received a job promotion. udacity made my dreams come true." now at primary school in kalinowka chad "udacity helped me switch careers, from a job in finance to a role as a data product analyst." now at yipitdata yannis "udacity was a life changing experience for me. my limited technical background was holding me to positions i wasn't enjoying. now, i love working as a full-time data analyst and a udacity mentor." now at growth digital agency antonio "with udacity, i learned to build scalable mobile apps. i got the knowledge and confidence to land the job of my dreams." now at baulen hoff "the program ios nanodegree kickstarted my ios developer career." now at cast group ramon "with the help of udacity i was able to continue my career in the us as a software developer." now at crunchtime björn "i've worked in it for 25 years. after years in classic system administration, it was time for a change. udacity helped me find a new passion in developing mobile apps." now at sabatical denis "when i mention my udacity education to potential employers they are immediately impressed." now at ericsson nikola tesla charles "after completing a udacity program, i made the career change from project management to applications support." now at at&t v "udacity helped me to get a promotion based on the new skills i acquired through the nanodegree program." now at techjini solutions eddie "udacity's front end nanodegree program and intro to programming provided me the skills to change careers from the restaurant industry to a technical role." now at paylocity shivasurya "udacity helped me get a job as a mobile engineer!" now at zoho corporation mohammed "having udacity on my resume made it stand out against other applicants and the experience gave me a competitive edge during technical interviews." now at limozein aiman "i was able to create an awesome portfolio which impressed interviewers and led to job offers!" now at vormittag associates inc luis "udacity helped me start a career in the programming industry!" now at independent contractor dave "udacity helped me fill in the gaps of my skills, knowledge, and confidence to help me advance my career with a new job." now at kroll bond rating agency michael "after udacity, i made a mid-career change from higher education to an android developer!" now at ativ software alberto "udacity helped me land a job as a research engineer at an automotive company." now at ford motor company marta "udacity was the first step in a year-long educational journey that resulted in my new career as a web developer" now at educational publisher sasikanth "udacity helped me get my first job as an android developer and build confidence in my ability to create beautiful and useful apps" now at eruvaka technologies neil "taking online courses with udacity was my first step in in launching a brand new career. it offered a systematic way for me to start on this path, and helped me learn how to continue self-teaching." now at shift3 technologies akshit "enrolling in android developer nanodegree was the best decision i ever made. it helped me gain more knowledge in the android field and also got me my first job as an android developer. stay udacious!" now at app street software kareem "udacity helped me to learn the hottest new technology in the world of web development, which is currently in use by microsoft, ebay, yahoo, and many more top tech companies." now at salfny rahul "udacity helped me become a better engineer and gave me more opportunities to grow my career." now at cleartrip prateek "i was creating android apps before i started the course, but the nanodegree program provided a structured curriculum that helped me fill some gaping holes in my knowledge." now at greater commons shuyu "udacity was one of the major factors that helped me get an internship and finally a new career as a web developer." now at usaa chelsea "six months into my front end nanodegree program, i was promoted from junior designer to multimedia designer. now i work to improve processes and bridge the gap between design & development teams." now at graphcom fawaz "with udacity, i learned all the basics of android development." now at the muff sergey "udacity helped me to get a new job as ios developer" now at alaskar technologies daniel "udacity helped me become a far better engineer, and my education helped pave the way towards my dream job - working with udacity!" now at udacity & the erickson group susmitha "before udacity, it was hard to get real-world experience. udacity was my solution! the nanodegree projects were challenging and job-relevant. i am now working as an intern!" now at theweddingbrigade bogdan "udacity helped me to learn android development skills. as a resuly, my apps are now more professional." now at university student carlos "udacity gave me the opportunity to work with android applications and become an android developer" now at edreams ayush "udacity not only taught me front-end development concepts but also helped me build my confidence that the knowledge i have is really what the industry wants." now at udacity muhammed "enrolling in a nanodegree program was the best decision i've ever made. it helped me get a promotion and spur job offers." now at twigano hamed "after i completed my nanodegree program, i went from a boring job with no coding or creativity to a technical startup consultant, and now a project manager." now at sociasoft priyank "after completing my android developer nanodegree program with the help of a google scholarship, i joined the team at cutshort.io!" now at cutshort.io paulo "with the nanodegree program, i gained the confidence and skills that allowed me to get a job in web development." now at startup akshay "udacity empowered me to found my own startup!" now at botlabs eyal "i was working in a sales/business development role and udacity helped me make the professional transition into a more technical position." now at yotpo mustafa "as a web developer, udacity helped me to learn front-end development more deeply." now at swift future boris "with udacity, i was able to fulfill a personal goal and become even more valuable to my current company." now at property simple ben "udacity helped me gain new skills in programming, technology, and helped me shift my career towards software development." now at mawer investment management remya "udacity helped me start my career all over again. i went from no interviews to an internship and now a full-time job!" now at milestone internet marketing umar "udacity helped me develop the skills i needed to become an ios engineer in an incredibly efficient way. everything i needed to know was clearly laid out, making the learning process smooth." now at mobileforming utsav "udacity helped me polish my skills and earn a promotion!" now at realbox data analytics artur "i was able to switch from a job i honestly hated to an android developer job i love at an awesome start-up with like-minded people." now at anymind şahika "i knew nothing about android, started learning with udacity, and am now an android developer! nothing can stop you if you work hard." now at bikoshu.com haaris "udacity helped me to understand python more easily and efficiently. i believe i received my recent promotion because i am the only person in my company with python knowledge." now at modemetric abdullah "udacity has had an instrumental impact on my career. without the android nanodegree program, i would not be a professional android developer." now at victorylink ravinder "after completing the digital marketing nanodegree program, i started my own agency. udacity empowered me with skills that gave me the confidence to do what i've always wanted to do. thank you so much, udacity!" now at i-connect simon "udacity allowed me to learn and create projects while traveling the world. when i came back home, i was ready to switch careers and got a job as a front-end developer in no time." now at consultant javi "the intro to programming nanodegree program has made my new promotion to qa analyst a lot more meaningful and rewarding!" now at vertafore, inc. donny "udacity helped transform my theoretical knowledge gained from college into applicable and practical real world experience i use everyday." now at at&t alexey "udacity has been so useful in helping me be more confident in what i do." now at yit györgy "after just two months of the android beginners track, i negotiated myself an internship. seven months later, i work as a full-time employee there!" now at codeyard guillermo "after udacity, i became a better software engineer, my work started to get noticed internationally, and i was eventually recruited by a us company and moved to los angeles." now at at&t entertainment - directv pedro "the android nanodegree program helped me to get a promotion at my company fast, and later led to an internship at the new york times." now at new york times intern shashank "udacity introduced me to real-world projects and guided me in improving my career." now at extron electronics mike "i gained a better understanding of the digital marketing landscape, and the tools and practices used in this ever-evolving industry" now at brag yunus "udacity has helped me to realize my potential and use it appropriately to improve my skills in the cutting-edge technologies of machine learnings." now at google alvaro "udacity helped me launch my startup - now, my company is a reality!" now at avianca daniel "udacity genuinely jumpstarted my career! right after i finished my nanodegree program, i got a job as a web developer and have been able to take on more complex responsibilities." now at quandoo gmbh matthew "i used to be an english teacher in japan. udacity helped me learn the technical skills i needed to change careers and become a data analyst. i also learned how to get out of my shell and network, which was very helpful." now at ksk analytics inc. dean "udacity helped me build a strong foundation in android development and guided me as i built a collection of projects to showcase my newfound skills. this ultimately helped me land my dream job." now at life360 akshay "until udacity, i never dreamt of a career in android but the course content and the overall structure of the nanodegree program helped me evolve as an effective developer" now at peach studio stefan "udacity helped me build my knowledge base while learning on the job, simultaneously!" now at deutsche post dhl group nick "udacity helped me make the transition from a senior php developer at televisa llc to a new role at amazon alexa." now at amazon alexa an "after my nanodegree program, i received a new job and a raise." now at home credit group and fidelity ayat "the knowledge i acquired has led to multiple job promotions!" now at btit carlos "i got a promotion to head of business intelligence at my current company." now at millicom int cellular baz "i changed careers and became an android developer!" now at motivate international aaron "udacity's nanodegree programs and career resource center played an integral part in helping me land a job offer from google." now at google jasper "previously an ios developer, my data analyst nanodegree program helped me move into a more data-oriented position. my nanodegree was actually mentioned several times during job interviews!" now at danish ministry of energy peter "i worked as a physician and realized that a more rigorous understanding of data science and ai is critical for advancing healthcare. udacity has helped me take my career in a new direction." now at texas medical center thanawat "i am a mobile game developer and udacity helped me find a job in android development." now at great corner invent tech co mario "i got a new job in it administration/training after completing a udacity program" now at government florent "i had just joined a new company as an android developer, and was able to excel thanks to udacity." now at apps people eugene "i confidently took on several freelance projects, building up my portfolio to the point that i got a new job as a react developer!" now at yale digital humanities lab vaibhav "i never felt overwhelmed while pursuing the nanodegree program due to the valuable support of the reviewers, and now i am more confident in converting my ideas to reality." now at coding visions infotech matthew "the digital marketing nanodegree program helped me discover my passion for the digital space and gain the skills to start a new career." now at textile & fashion center mark "i gained the tools and skills to drastically change my career path." now at smt corporation gareth "after udacity, i changed careers from a chef to a software developer" now at therightsxchange raffaele "udacity allowed me to latch on to the 'machine learning bullet train' that guarantees a sound starting point to further ml research and application." now at wellington management eleni "udacity helped me change not only my career, but my lifestyle." now at commercial company oleg "udacity helped get started as a professional software developer" now at tttech juan "udacity has made me confident in the world of computer science and artificial intelligence. with a strong background in mathematics but little experience in coding, udacity has helped me learn so much" now at wardenautomation omar "i believe this is the future of education and hiring." now at udacity blitz james "i wanted to transition into working with technology, and the nanodegree provided me the path i needed to follow." now at einstein industries mangalambigai "the best part about the courses is that they clearly show you why you need to do something—rather than just how to do it—so it is almost like reading a story." now at yieldbot aaron "i quickly began to see areas in our development process that needed fixing, and i had the udacity nanodegree program to thank for my newfound skills." now at at&t gordon "...having the android developer nanodegree credential under my belt was even better than having an internship." now at google lauren "...forums are a great way to learn from other students about what each nanodegree entails, and what skills you’ll need to learn to be hired in a certain position..." now at precision design studios khang "udacity really pushed me to the limit and gave me more motivation to keep improving my ios skills as a professional." now at axxess sanjib "i believe nanodegree programs are extremely valuable for those in developing countries." now at danish management group soumyaranjan "the projects i worked on really helped me to build a strong resume, and the response i received after that was very good." now at gramener bilal "my nanodegree program was instrumental in getting me my current job as a senior data analyst for capital one." now at capitalone ali "udacity is the driving force of my career development, and it has been essential in every job decision i have taken in the last 2 years" now at visceral sense bryan "after i completed my nanodegree program, i started applying for jobs, and received offers almost immediately." now at payoff keith "udacity has opened doors for me that i tried to open by myself for years." now at at&t don "having a nanodegree credential helped my resume stand out, and the experience gave me a competitive edge during technical interviews." now at infinite technologies miraj "i don't think any of this would have been possible without udacity!" now at lighthouse hugh "in my new role, i help our clients building data and analytics capabilities. my data analyst nanodegree program allowed me make a flying start in the company." now at micompany josé "udacity has had an instrumental impact on my career. without the android nanodegree credential, i would not have managed to get this far." now at udacity igor "i found a new job at a data-driven company, and i like that i make an impact here. this is my udacity success story." now at wikibusiness corporation james "i took a udacity nanodegree program and made quite a career shift." now at deakin university jed "i used udacity to accelerate my learning in the field of data science, and to make the career transition i had been dreaming about for years." now at cyient insights jobin "udacity armed me with skills to develop models, and gave me an innovative experience with quick, high-quality, recurring feedback." now at superior data science llc julio "i decided to take a nanodegree program because i wanted to strengthen my skills as an android developer. i am glad i did, because it has changed my life." now at globant dogan "i truly thank your organization for the skills i acquired." now at mrp luis "i’m very excited to know that i'm finally en route to reaching my dream of developing a robot—in this case a self-driving car—by joining this nanodegree program!" now at slickdeals, llc michał "my nanodegree program taught me necessary technical skills, helped me build confidence, and in the end, got me a job!" now at weblify mikko "in my role as cto of hmd global i am able to conduct analysis on my own and make decisions quicker thanks to udacity." now at hmd global daria "i learned essential tools and obtained crucial experience through completing projects. this built my portfolio and helped me attract recruiters." now at greentomatocars nan-tsou "i received an interview invitation from the recruiter of global hr at rakuten inc. after he reviewed my profile on udacity. i passed the coding test and three interviews, and then i got the offer!" now at rakuten richard "udacity gave me the confidence i needed to get past the interviews and on to the offers." now at talkpoint yann "between my experience as an actuary, and everything i learned in my nanodegree program, i was able to land a role at deloitte as a senior data analytics specialist." now at deloitte mohit "udacity's data analyst nanodegree program was a game-changer for me." now at eshopworld sagar "i was very eager to learn new skills related to web development, but unable to find organized resources. udacity offered a platform where the best content is provided." now at udacity zhongyuan "before udacity, i was a substitute teacher. after graduating i quickly got hired as a system analyst. the portfolio i put together while doing the work at udacity is what got me the job." now at its lorenzo "udacity provided me a great way to learn everything i needed to start my career in android development, and i'm very happy about my choice." now at ennova danny "the best part of udacity blitz was the work experience by far. i learned so much about how to collaborate with people in other countries, how to work with a project manager..." now at optimista.com jane "...udacity blitz has been so rewarding for me. i am at the stage of my career where it's not enough to just have a job. i want to make a meaningful contribution..." now at udacity blitz kevin "i was previously a professor of arabic and linguistics. i am a data analyst now." now at pilytix nam "after udacity, now i'm an application developer / database analyst at my new job where i specialize in database and data analytics tasks." now at force multiplier solutions paul "i've been taking classes from udacity before it was even named "udacity"." now at transvoyant imagine your future! what do you want to learn today? what's your dream job? discover the program that's right for you! get started featured programs ai programming with python android basics android developer artificial intelligence for trading become an ios developer business analytics data analyst data engineer data scientist front-end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science react only at udacity artificial intelligence blockchain developer computer vision deep learning deep reinforcement learning digital marketing flying cars & autonomous flight intro to self-driving cars learn unreal vr mobile web specialist natural language processing robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer resources catalog career resource center careers services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs mobile udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements legal & privacy site map © 2011–2019 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map china egypt europe germany india saudi arabia uae united states "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2019 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer degrees. udacity 现已提供中文版本！ a udacity tem uma página em português para você! there's a local version of udacity for you! sprechen sie deutsch? besuchen sie de.udacity.com und entdecken sie lokale angebote, unsere partnerunternehmen und udacitys deutschsprachigen blog. 将此设置为 udacity 默认主页 tornar esta a página padrão da udacity always make this my udacity homepage 前往优达学城中文网站 ir para a página brasileira go to indian site zu de.udacity.com continue in english we’ve updated our terms of use and privacy policy.