skip to content college info geek studying and learning menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search studying and learning if you want to be a successful student, you need to perform well inside and outside of the classroom. this means that reading textbooks, doing homework, and studying for exams can’t monopolize all of your time. the problem? most students use ineffective study strategies, which increase the number of hours they need to spend with noses pressed firmly into textbooks. but, starting now, you won’t be one of them. this collection of articles and resources will help you to understand how your brain really works. more importantly, you’ll learn how to study effectively, using proven methods that enable you to remember more information (and use it) while spending fewer hours actually studying. it’s time to learn how to learn. how to study – the most effective learning techniques how to use the feynman technique to learn faster (with examples) 8 better ways to make and study flash cards how to remember more of what you learn with spaced repetition how to improve your memory: a comprehensive, science-backed guide how to take better notes: the 6 best note-taking systems how to make studying fun ace your exams and tests how to study for any test or exam (even if you feel unmotivated) how to deal with essay questions on exams how to improve your grades on multiple choice tests how to overcome test anxiety – 5 strategies that work how to create a study schedule for your final exams confidence tracking: a brain hack for improving your exam grades so you failed a test… or a whole semester. what now? how to prepare for exams like a pro: the exam prep cycle how to motivate yourself to study (the 5-step process) take my free class on mastering habits building habits isn’t just about discipline; there are real-world steps you can take to set yourself up for success! in this course, you'll learn how to set realistic goals, handle failure without giving up, and get going on the habits you want in your life. learn more how to tackle homework, essays, and research how to get better at math (while spending less time studying) how to write high-quality papers and essays more quickly how to stop falling behind on your homework how to finish homework fast how to create a great study space (with examples) how to write a killer research paper (even if you hate writing) how to stop procrastinating: the only guide you’ll ever need how to read books (and textbooks) effectively how to read more books: 7 ways to build a consistent reading habit the science behind how fast humans can read 3 speed reading techniques examined: do they actually work? 5 ways you can actually increase your reading speed textbook reading strategies for ultra-efficient learning 5 active reading strategies (and how i’m applying them) learn effectively outside of class essential books for students listen and learn: the 40 best educational podcasts in 2020 watch and learn: the 100+ best educational youtube channels in 2020 how to learn any language from scratch how to learn more outside of class than you ever could inside it our best podcast episodes on learning a 12-step exam prep checklist (ep. 204) how to be good at everything — the rapid skill learning process (ep. 210) how to study math and science effectively (ep. 132) how to make a comeback and save your grades (ep. 115) reading faster: the science behind what works… and what doesn’t (ep. 93) how to read and learn more effectively (ep. 48) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.