skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides stuff i like (travel products, books, blogroll, and more) i like this stuff. if this stuff were a person, i would nervously call it up, ask if it had a crush on anybody, and then hang up before it had a chance to answer. but i can’t do that, so i’ve just listed it here. please note that my love can’t be bought – i have not been compensated for listing any of these links or products. do not contact me to have your blog or product added to this list, or else you will incur my twitter wrath. blogroll: italy explained – one of my favorite people tells you everything you need to know about one of my favorite countries. fevered mutterings – mike is hilarious and weird. so are his travel stories. the gastrognome – advice, stories, and reviews from one of my favorite foodies. legal nomads – a site about food and travel, run by my delightful friend jodi. a lifetime of worry – life, parenthood, and whatever else comes up, through the eyes of my friends philip and mimi. nerd’s eye view – pam writes beautiful essays about her travels. reading this makes me a better writer. travel monkeys – my friend deanna writes about travel and life with her little ones. my favorite travel products (aka, stuff i actually buy and use without solicitation or cupcake-related-bribes): amazon kindle paperwhite – nothing beats a physical book, but this gadget is great for traveling until i accidentally hit the wrong button and then start yelling at it. dr. dan’s cortibalm – my absolute favorite lip balm. eagle creek pack-it cube – i swear by these – makes packing and unpacking surprisingly easy, and my suitcase is always organized. kipling art satchel – my go-to carry on bag. lightweight, holds a ton, folds down nicely, and squishes underneath the seat in front of me with ease. lewis and clark quart-size toiletry bag – durable, waterproof, and great for travel. nalgene mini travel bottles – spill-proof and travel friendly. (note: i actually buy these at rei, because i can purchase the individual bottles in whatever quantity i need). oscar biandi dry shampoo – a small bottles lasts more than a year – perfect for days when i’m traveling and don’t have time to wash my hair (don’t judge me). samsonite luggage 21-inch spinner – my last samsonite suitcase lasted me for years before finally dying. i don’t quite love this much as much as the previous model i had, but it is still pretty darn great. cushy handle, four wheels (so it glides with just a gentle push), and seems durable. rand has the same one and loves it. books i love: the absolutely true diary of a part-time indian by sherman alexie the amazing adventures of kavalier and clay by michael chabon a homemade life by molly wizenberg how to be a woman by caitlin moran middlesex by jeffrey eugenides special topics in calamity physics by marisha pessl about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status