home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the body politic electric: walt whitman on women’s centrality to democracy how to keep criticism from sinking your confidence: walt whitman and the discipline of creative self-esteem the universe in verse: john cameron mitchell reads walt whitman’s beautiful least known poem labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks stunning, sensual illustrations for a rare 1913 edition of walt whitman’s ‘leaves of grass’ by english artist margaret c. cook “thoughts, silent thoughts, of time and space and death…” by maria popova when thirty-six-year-old walt whitman self-published leaves of grass in the summer of 1855, having poured the whole of his being into this unusual and daring labor of love, it fell upon unreceptive and downright hostile ears — a rejection that devastated the young poet. but over the coming decades, largely thanks to emerson’s extraordinary letter of endorsement and encouragement, it became one of the most beloved books in america — a proto-viral masterpiece that forever changed the face and spirit of literature, bold and fresh and replete with “incomparable things said incomparably,” creaturely yet cosmic, bridging the earthly and the eternal yet larger than both. twenty-one years after whitman’s death, everyman’s library series creator j.m. dent published what remains the most beautiful edition of the whitman classic — a large, lavish tome bound in green cloth, with the title emblazoned in gilt. but the crowning curio of this rare, spectacular 1913 edition — a surviving copy of which i was fortunate to acquire at the new york antiquarian book fair — are twenty-four color plates by the english artist margaret c. cook. “two fishes swimming in the sea not more lawless than we” (available as a print) cook’s stunning illustrations, shockingly sensual against the backdrop of puritanism against which whitman staged his rebellion in verse, bear something of william blake — particularly his engravings for paradise lost; something of maurice sendak (who was, of course, shaped by blake) — particularly his forgotten sensual illustrations for pierre by whitman’s contemporary herman melville. “you sea!… i behold… your crooked inviting fingers…, i am integral with you, i too am of one phase and of all phase” (available as a print) “we found our own, o my soul, in the calm and cool of the daybreak” (available as a print) “whose happiest days were far and away through fields, … he and another wandering” (available as a print) “how calm, how solemn it grows to ascend the atmosphere of lovers” (available as a print) “living beings, identities now doubtless near us in the air that we know not of” (available as a print) radiating from cook’s drawings is whitman’s insurgent insistence, as a queer man and a lover of all life, that romantic and erotic love transcends the tight parameters of the heteronormative — that the heart, too, contains multitudes. “i will sing the song of companionship” (available as a print) “the sun and stars that float in the open air, the apple-shaped earth and we upon it, surely the drift of them is something grand, i do not know what it is except that it is grand, and that it is happiness” (available as a print) most spectacular are cook’s nocturnal scenes, fusing the sultry with the celestial — a consonant complement to whitman’s lifelong fascination with astronomy, which would prompt him to write in specimen days a quarter century later: to soothe and spiritualize, and, as far as may be, solve the mysteries of death and genius, consider them under the stars at midnight. “thoughts, silent thoughts, of time and space and death” (available as a print) “give me nights perfectly quiet… and i looking up at the stars” (available as a print) “the tender and growing night” (available as a print) “the night follows along, with millions of suns, and sleep, and restoring darkness” (available as a print) “we have voided all but freedom and all but our own joy” (available as a print) “i see… great cloud-masses… with at times half-dimm’d sadden’d far-off star” (available as a print) i have digitized and restored cook’s striking illustrations, and made them available as art prints, all proceeds from which will help support the universe in verse. “the sleepers are very beautiful as they lie unclothed, they flow hand in hand over the whole earth from east to west” (available as a print) “i will confront these shows of the day and night; i will know if i am to be less than they, i will see if i am not as majestic as they” (available as a print) “they are calm, clear, well possess’d of themselves” (available as a print) “i see my soul reflected in nature, as i see through a mist, one with inexpressible completeness, sanity, beauty, see the bent head and arms folded over the breast, the female i see” (available as a print) “the soul has that measureless pride which revolts from every lesson but its own” (available as a print) “i too with my soul and body, we, a curious trio, wandering on our way, through these shores amid the shadows, with the apparitions pressing” (available as a print) “i musing late in the autumn day” (available as a print) “the merriment of the two babes that crawl over the grass in the sun, the mother never turning her vigilant eyes from them” (available as a print) “the yellow half-moon enlarged, sagging down, drooping, the face of the sea almost touching, the boy ecstatic” (available as a print) “i have taken my stand on the basest of peninsulas and on the high embedded rocks, to cry thence: ‘salut au monde!'” (available as a print) for other stunning illustrations from special editions of literary classics, devour ralph steadman’s illustrations for orwell’s animal farm, aubrey beardsley’s gender-defying illustrations for oscar wilde’s salome, harry clarke’s haunting illustrations for goethe’s faust, and salvador dalí’s paintings for cervantes’s don quixote, dante’s divine comedy, shakespeare’s romeo and juliet, and the essays of montaigne. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published april 11, 2018 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/04/11/leaves-of-grass-margaret-cook/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artbooksculturelgbtmargaret cookout of printpublic domainwalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.