style bubble 11 december 2013 this is me... bidding farewell to n7 >> you will see that bloody balcony no more. the outfit posts on the communal terrace will cease to exist. and, i have lost a very convenient venue to hold our blogger year sales. just in case you're in the miniscule minority who doesn't know (i have pretty much been yapping on about this to anybody who has hearing), i am finally getting out of my n7 hovel on saturday and i have been busy getting my new house (extreme and far out location to be revealed soon...) ready in preparation. i still have not got a toilet but i do have lovely new cushions by swash. i know my priorities. before i look forward to the new and slightly bigger hovel (it's a house w/ a real staircase - beyond excited!) i thought i'd take a moment to say farewell to my beloved n7. if i could afford you, i would have stayed. i love your dogged un-trendiness although i spy that two "artisinal" coffee shops have popped up on holloway road - maybe that's a sign for me to get out. i love your proximity to two useful tube lines and your all round convenience for everything. i will miss the following in no particular order - le peche mignon's real-deal french owners and their dedication to their perfect croissaints, the awesome peeps at chip inn fish bar who always give me extra chips, the slightly eccentric owner of ooh la la furniture store, the cantankerous lady at 162 vintage store, bibimbap at busan (secret-not-so-secret korean spot), the lady at holloway road tube station newsagents who senses i am in a rush and hands over my change in speedy time, the roars of goals when arsenal are playing and the smell of burgers/sausages outside our building on matchdays, the guy who sells arsenal merchandise who makes fun of my outfits and always asks "are you a designer?" even though i tell him every time that i'm not. i'm belatedly blogging this little film made in association with opsh and kanken bags as part of their "this is me" series, profiling british creativies, where they live, how they work and passions outside of their vocation, with mine being food and football. i'll look back on this film perhaps and wonder why it is i moved. maybe i'll come back. maybe i won't. regardless, n7 has been grand to me for the past six years. there'll be a pensive pause for sure when i load up the last bits on to the moving van on saturday. film-maker: geppetto, photography: rich gilligan, produced by: prowlster, executive producers: skookum ltd posted by susie_bubble on 11 december 2013 | permalink | comments (18) | 10 december 2013 when in rome... "i keep curiosity alive. i never say never, and never say ever. i'm open to change, to new perspectives." silvia venturini fendi i've become fairly ballsy when it comes to interviewing people. backstage in the throng of shows, i have no fear when it comes to getting a quickie quote or two. an in the flesh twitter talk with someone, who has never ever done one at a house that has only just begun ramping up their digital engagement - that's a whole different type of interview altogether. when silvia venturini fendi agreed to take part in fendi's first ever twitter talk #fenditalks and i was asked to come to rome for a day to conduct the q&a, i jumped at the chance to return to a city, which i last visited on a school trip aged 14, more intrigued by a school trip with the local boys school than the wonders of roman architecture. that said, i was fairly petrified about guiding fendi into twitter talk territory for the first time, taking silvia venturini fendi along for the ride. turns out my fears were completely unfounded. one of the stand out answers that she gave in the quote above summed up her can-do and will-do attitude towards a digital experience that would put off most other fashion creative directors. in fact all her answers suited the 140 character requirements of twitter - to the point, direct and no off-piste tangents. rome wasn't built in a day (yup, i'm pulling out all the rome-related sayings just for this occasion) but fendi did manage to pop their twitter talk cherry with aplomb. you can read the full conversation on fendi's twitter account, where svf talks about her love of rome, having fun with fur and the relationship between the worlds of design and fashion. as if being invited into silvia venturini fendi's office to have a twitter tete a tete wasn't enough of an experience, i was also given a whirlwind tour around fendi's closeted accessory atelier, something that has never been granted to either journalist or blogger. this is the beating heart of fendi as it were, with bags and accessories being the bread and butter of the business, and even with the expected restrictions imposed on photography, it was incredibly interesting to see a workplace where ideas for the next "it" bag gestate. silvia venturini fendi is of course instrumental in creating a hit/it bag culture at fendi, being the creator of the house's famous baguette bag. with that stroke of bag genius, the baguette is fendi's icon which has justifiably entering pop culture, anchored by memorable moments in shows like sex and the city. the hits kept on coming with the b, the spy and the peekaboo all having their moments and right now, in an unexpectedly whimsical moment, silvia venturini fendi explored the idea of fun fur and what started off as a plain fur-covered geometric cube, kind of like those fur dice car ornaments, then grew a pair of eyes and became baggie monsters or bag bugs as fendi have dubbed them. these bugs have lingered long after their a/w 13-4 and they've turned up for s/s 14, this time with swarovski eyes and the idea seems to have given fendi a freshened up angle to get a younger clientale interested in this famed house. speaking to the design team as they showed me their moodboards and the materials that they have developed in the past, at the heart of the house of fendi is technical accomplishment. it's why even the people who sit on the fence about fur (that would be me - please see previous posts/statements about fur as i'm not going to delve into it here) can't deny the aesthetic feats that this house has achieved with a material that was previously used as a raw status symbol - as silvia venturini fendi puts it - "the bigger the coat, the bigger the wallet" was fur's yesteryear. combine that with the leather and exotic skins that fendi is also famed for and their cheeky interplay between real and synthetic materials, the house knows no bounds when it comes to technical prowess. marco de vincenzo, who has launched out on his own, is still a key designer in fendi's accessories atelier and he told me that silvia venturini fendi always tells them that anything is possible - there is nothing that fendi can't have made if they push for it. for the pre-fall 2014 collection, they play with the idea of contrasting the animalistic with something superficial, something that marries well with the bug eye motif that peek out with furry eyebrows from a baguette bag. i loved it when silvia venturini fendi talk about being attracted to the "disgusting" things. "i love disgusting. i love it when someone at the factory says it looks disgusting," says fendi. "it means that from a mistake, you can learn something new. i love a challenge." she also admits to loving competition - "i love it when every (label) is creating beautiful bags." it's this constant questioning of taste that keeps silvia and her team on their toes, to keep striving for something new and different. bag bugs may be riding a popularity wave right now but silvia venturini fendi isn't resting on her laurels. on the desk opposite silvia's sat a trio of leather covered squirrels - prototype cuddly toys to accompany fendi's childrenswear, that are more than likely to get the attention of the parents as well the kids, judging by the reactions of everyone (including a very very excited me - that's down to my sister and i playing an imaginary game called squirrels and hedgehogs when we were young and had no toys). just another curveball to add to the fendi story. they may have jumped on the digital wagon later than others but it seems that when they catch up, there's a compelling story that awaits. posted by susie_bubble on 10 december 2013 | permalink | comments (8) | 09 december 2013 meadham kirchhoff remixed i may be running around between flat and new house with bits of polyfilla and chipped off tile adhesive stuck to my hair and yes, i am beginning to sound like that boring and annoying person who always talks about houses/married life/babies/delete as appropriate, but i haven't abandoned my vocational priorities altogether. there was no way i was going to miss this particular victoria & albert museum fashion in motion featuring meadham kirchhoff. better still that ben kirchhoff and ed meadham staged this retrospective on the back of a successful sell-out topshop collaboration, proving that "weird" does sell, and a s/s 14 collection that lingered on the back of many a mind as the season's overall standout. this was also an opportunity to prove those meadham kirchhoff naysayers and the people who wrongly assumed that they're a one-aesthetic-pony, how broad, rich and above all, beautiful their clothes are. "when approaching every collection or garment we secretly hope to make something worthy of being seen in a museum, so for us it is an honour to present a show comprised of hand-picked pieces from our favourite collections," said ben and ed about being asked to do a fashion in motion show. the word "worthy" or from a consumer's perspective "worth it" is exactly what we saw at the show. from their vast back catalogue, they had to whittle it down to thirty-five looks that would attempt to summarise everything that meadham kirchhoff represents. the result? every outfit, which mixed up seasons spanning from s/s 10 to s/s 14, was comprised of pieces that glowed, sparkled and rustled with beautiful craftsmanship - a point that i so often bring up when talking about meadham kirchhoff. because beyond the rainbow hair, paint smeared eyes and kinderwhore and fairy vibes, the pair are devoted to making things that have weight and heft - not just in the physical sense - but that fifty years from now, their clothes will have gravitas and significance. that's what the fashion in motion series has been so successful at showcasing over the years. placing meadham kirchhoff's clothes to the backdrop of raphael hall, soundtracked by a mash-up ranging from bernard herrmann psycho score to abba's dancing queen, only confirmed what most of us already know - that ben kirchhoff and ed meadham really matter in the scheme of fashion's wider context. it was evident in the audience too - you could spot the meadham kirchhoff fan girls (and a few boys too...) a mile away. some of them were doing the folksy mk thing, some of them the pastel frou frou thing and some just went all out on riotous outfits of colours and layers. the show mirrored the aesthetic strands or meadham kirchhoff epochs that the duo have gone through over the years and what struck me most was the way their seasons bled into one another so seamlessly. the embroidered blouses of the witchy children of the corn a/w 11 collection paired up with the chanel at deauville a/w 13-4 collection. the disco dollies of a/w 12-3 mashed up with the painted biker and chiffon combos of s/s 11 and better yet - the hardened glitter tees of s/s 10 - perhaps the season, which could be cited as the starting point of ben and ed marching to the beat of their own awesome glitter-sprinkled, vintage wallpaper decoupaged and sticker-covered drum. historical references mixing with madame de pompadour decadence of s/s 12 colliding with flapper beading from their excellent s/s 14 collection. they saved the emosh moment until last though as danny elfman's soundtrack from edward scissorhands teared up the audience for the final passage dedicated mostly to their seminal s/s 12 "a wolf in sheep's lamb's clothing" show. no need for a tiered cake set, dancing courtney loves or child ballerinas though. the clothes were more than enough. and they were all worn convincingly by fantastically street cast group of girls, who looked much like the mk hardcore fanbase - people who might eschew "fashion" as they know it firsthand and look upon meadham kirchhoff as a much-needed alternative in an increasingly homogenised field. posted by susie_bubble on 09 december 2013 | permalink | comments (21) | 05 december 2013 maison madness in the bbc sketch show twenty twelve, a mockumentary following the organisation of the 2012 olympics in london. in amongst the fictional olympica deliverance commission team, the character kay hope bullmore is head of sustianability. then fi healey comes in as head of legacy. nobody knows what exactly is the difference between sustainability and legacy and an ongoing face-off ensues between the two characters and their overlapping responsibilities. these two words immediately come to mind when i think about the fashion powers that be, who play a game i like to call "mad for maisons" - that is plucking a moribund fashion house from relative obscurity, buying the rights to the name, chucking loads of money at it and resurrecting it all in the name of "legacy". but is this actually sustainable? maybe it's those monied investors who are rubbing their hands together whilst getting those two words muddled up, thinking they're one and the same. a revitalised mason, when done well is spectacular of course. my objection isn't against visionaries such as nicolas ghesquiere's past work for balenciaga, riccardo tisci at givenchy or olivier rousteing for balmain where an identifiable strand of design dna of each house's founder runs through their current creative direction. or when you just wipe the slate clean completely and go your own way à la phoebe philo at celine, which is really just the phoebe philo is awesome and you better recognise showcase. or even when a house like carven, which pretty much had no recognisable identity to begin with save for a famous perfume, gets a young and jolly uplift (although one could argue, guillaume henry could have done the same all on his own without the shelter of a maison). what i find unnecessary is the persistent backing of yet more houses, whose owners clutch on to their past, going through the motions of building up "heritage", without necessarily having due respect to their founders but instead, with cold and steely eyes on the big cash prize. i think often about the interview i did with olivier saillard at the brilliant put together "paris haute couture" exhibition at hotel de ville. "there were many mysterious names during the thirties to the fifties doing very brilliant work," said saillard of names like jacques heim and jean patou, whose frocks were on show at the exhibition. "they don’t exist anymore but perhaps that is a good thing.it’s important to communicate that you can do something with your name and not necessarily for a label. if i was a young boy, it would be great to see this exhibition and to think 'i can invent my own name and label!'" yet some of those very names have been slowly making their presence known again in fashion, with varying degrees of success and unknown results that remain to be seen. despite the waves of interesting and talented young designers coming through the ranks from all over the globe, cobweb covered maisons are still thought to be something of a sure thing. that's not to say that there aren't exceptions to this mad for maisons game. there are a few with a historically strong and revolutionary design identity that could yet intrigue and excite the fashion world. however i'm going to say it quietly - perhaps some of those thirties to fifties houses, which saillard talked about, are purely of their time - to be respected and remembered, but not necessary to revive and rejuvenate. "these names are harder to communicating to the public than new names because their history is not well known," says saillard. "it’s a sign of the times. probably we will see new names in the future. it’s more interesting and passionate to invent your own story. it’s quite bizarre to create for another label, for another identity." perhaps the tide is changing. if lvmh and kering group's keen eye for investment in young labels is anything to go by (as well as the recent announcement that lvmh will be launching their very own prize). perhaps new identities will be given the resources, time and space to grow into veritable maisons themselves so that we don't have to keep looking back at the old ones. i thought i'd take a look at some of the culprits and what possible contribution they could make to the current fashion landscape, if any. ................................................................................................ let's get the big positive out there. the house of schiaparelli is finally making a formal return to the haute couture schedule in january with marco zanini, formerly of rochas instilled as the creative director. numerous names were bounded about and schiaparelli cleverly built up to the announcement by inviting christian lacroix to present his personal tribute of a collection to schiaparelli back in july during the paris couture shows. the name schiaparelli may still be a while away from having the recognition level of say chanel but any fashion enthusiast worth their salt can't deny the impact and contribution she made on fashion with her ahead-of-the-time sense of quirk and humour. the schiaparelli and prada: impossible conversations exhibition at the met last year certainly emphasised schiaparelli's potential relevance to today and knowing zanini's brilliant, if a little underrated contribution to rochas, of all the newish maison revivals, this one looks like it has definite legs. christian lacroix for schiaparelli presented in july 2013 rochas s/s 14 ................................................................................................ i'm not even going to dwell on how crap this worth paris website is, or even that there's a well cheesy ticker tape headline quote by lady gaga on the top but more to the point, is charles frederick worth (ahem) worth reviving? worth was of course the englishman who went to paris and gave us haute couture as we know it today, dictating design rather than pandering to whims of clientale as mere dressmakers. there's no denying the beautiful work that worth did. but they belonged to a vastly different era. worth left no tangible recognisable aesthetic mark that would be relevant today but his major contribution will always remain. the house was revived in 1999 and giovanni bedin became its creative director, designing both a couture line and a ready to wear line. i've not seen/heard a peep from them since their haute couture s/s 13 collection - all corsets and bows - and if the website is any indication, perhaps their owners have had second thoughts about the direction of worth paris. worth couture s/s 13 ................................................................................................ during the february ready to wear shows, right after i had interviewed saillard, i was sent this curious press release from a new york based company, who announced they'd be relaunching jacques fath for the american market. fath was a contemporary of pierre balmain and christian dior in paris and his ready to wear introduced in america was a hit with the likes of rita hayworth and marilyn monroe. what struck me about this sad looking powerpoint-esque presentation was the fact that we had to have history and facts drummed in - fath was a very important designer, therefore we must respect and take notice of these handbags that are the latest fruits of revival after a lot of chopping and changing in designers and ownership. fath was great and his work deserves wider recognition for sure. sadly, if these bags are any indication of jacques fath's future direction, then to say fath would be turning in his grave, may not be an understatement. ................................................................................................ jean patou is one of the latest names thrown down on the mad for maisons gambling table. patou has been attributed with the popularity of items such as the cardigan and tennis skirt, allowing a more casual and fluid approach for womenswear in the 1920s and later became more known for its numerous perfumes and rotation of starry creative directors in the sixties to eighties, such as jean paul gaultier, karl lagerfeld and christian lacroix. no creative director has been named to date. i know i keep banging on about websites but it does cheese me off that so little consideration is given to your sole mode of communication about, what is essentially a dead-and-buried brand to those born say after 1980. does it do jean patou's work and "legacy" any justice? does it get people excited about the future collections of patou when a creative director is appointed? it smacks of caring just about the bottom line and not much else. ................................................................................................ i loved learning about the work of italian designer mila schön, the giorgio armani of her day, through various books and look forward to seeing examples of her work at the upcoming the glamour of italian fashion exhibition at the victoria & albert museum. i am failing though to see the connection between some of the wonderful archive images of schön's work and the s/s 14 collection designed by alessandro de benedetti, the house's new creative director. schön definitely has played her part in the trajectory and development of italian fashion and her clean and classical lines, worn by the likes of jackie kennedy-onassis and lee radziwill, might well be due a revival. but is de benedetti contributing anything new that doesn't already exist elsewhere? there lies another problem in going mad for maisons - these houses mostly existed at a time when the fashion landscape was sparse. today, they enter a very crowded place. is it healthy or sustainable to have houses jumpstarted, only for it to be chopped and changed with new ownerships and a carousel of revolving creative directors? mila schön s/s 14 ................................................................................................ no, the jean-louis scherrer brand, isn't about to have its ready to wear and couture lines revived. i just thought i'd include this website as an example of poor licensing and how a venerable name can go through some strange and muddied waters. i was quite ashamed that i didn't know much about scherrer until a few years ago when my friends in paris introduced me to his work, marked by sensual flamboyance and fluid tailoring. his death earlier in the year sparked tribute from all over the industry for his contribution to haute couture. like his american contemporary halston, scherrer's lack business sense meant he was eventually fired from his own company, losing his name, which is currently fronting quite terrible watches and jewellery. again, for legacy's sake, is this how jean-louis scherrer's work should be represented? hopefully a beautiful retrospective or an insightful book will come about to rectify things. ................................................................................................ a very good example of legacy being preserved in a tasteful way is this norman hartnell website. hartnell was of course famous for being dressmaker to the queen and was one of london's few couturiers. that history is portrayed very well on a simple and clear site with beautiful imagery. there's no word of hartnell's revival and the site just pays respect to his contribution to british haute couture - nothing more, nothing less. ................................................................................................ we come to the revolutionary "space age" designers of the 1960s who are still alive today. andré courrèges for me still holds much relevant sway as everytime i encounter a bit of vintage courrèges, it never fails to take you by surprise. its slow but steady resurrection as a ready to wear label can be attributed to its current owners - two former advertising execs frédéric torloting and jacques bungert. they have eschewed seasonal shows and instead work on reinterpreting core courrèges values. much like their vintage counterparts, i've found myself being drawn to the new and current courrèges pieces in stores like united arrows in tokyo and corso como seoul. the work is speaking for itself as opposed to a star designer although there have been whisperings that simon porte of young gun french label jacquemus has been tapped to take his love of courrèges (he's always cited the space age couturier as an inspiration) and apply it to the real thing. ................................................................................................ finally let's talk about pierre cardin, the sprightly 91-year old who recently put on his first haute couture in years at maxim's in paris. not gonna lie - the pictures are certainly a far cry from the groundbreaking designs that cardin created in his sixties heyday. that said, cardin has been a master of license deals, multi-disciplinary design and putting his fingers in many pies and if he wants to put on a show, out of sync with the seasons, in his own restaurant, he's earnt the right to do so. what he said at his recent show though did crack me up. "if you make dresses at this level, rich women buy them," said cardin backstage. "we have to get rich people to spend their money. people need to make a living - that's the message." bang on, monsieur cardin. here's hoping those rich women get spending on the future maisons of today - the many many talented designers who deserve their own spotlight, without being lumbered with someone else's identity. posted by susie_bubble on 05 december 2013 | permalink | comments (14) | older » accessorize artsy fartsy beauty school drop out books bubble cam/streetstyle diy expert editorials extra! extra! read all about it! film it's all history labels, labels, labels london blah blah blah music new buys random stuff rants and raves shoes, shoes, shoes shop watch susie styles television the art of shopping the beautiful people travel trends'r'us vintage december 2013 mon tue wed thu fri sat sun 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 archives december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 more... enter your email address: 1972 projects advanced style a hit of sarah another reader a shaded view on fashion art wednesday beckerman bite plate brook & lyn cat party coacd coute que coute dandy gum debutante clothing di$count disneyrollergirl divine living dress a day dressful fake karl fashion 156 fash gif fashion editor at large fashion hayley fashion historian fashionista fashion loves people fat fashion assistant fifi lapin final fashion flying saucer fred butler style garance dore garbage dress geometricsleep hint mag honestly wtf i heart gum igor + andré india knight's posterous into the gloss in detail is mental it's nice that jak & jil july stars les mads lust and found lynn and horst kingdom of style la carmina layers & swathes love aesthetics lulu and your mom luxirare madame says miss moss magazine machine a google map listing all of my favourite fashion shops in london that is by no means comprehensive... disclaimer most of the photos are taken by myself and where i have used other images, a link or credit will normally be given. all photos are only used for commenting reasons and no photos are used for commercial reasons unless specified. designed by joseph piper and louisa lau. subscribe to this blog's feed