u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition style & beauty zone 1 how to color your hair at home (even though you really shouldn’t) zone 2 is your beard putting you and loved ones at risk for coronavirus? how to make a face mask that is effective against coronavirus how to cut your own hair, if you absolutely must my hair, my story: celebrating the glorious crowns of black women can coronavirus live on shoes and be brought into our homes? how long coronavirus lives on clothes, and how to wash them huffpost finds we’ve never seen a sitewide nordstrom sale like this before in news you deserve: sephora has free shipping. here’s what we recommend stocking up on. what to wear to work — when you work at home brought to you by huffpost finds zone 3 how to keep your germ-y ass nails clean at home experts share diy manicure and cleaning tips in lieu of regular salon visits during the coronavirus crisis. what nurses and doctors wear on the frontlines of covid-19 the masks, gowns and other protection worn by medical professionals who deal with the highly contagious virus. how your glasses could help protect you from coronavirus medical experts -- and anna wintour -- make the case for wearing glasses to protect against covid-19. medical experts share the best lotions for dry, excessively washed hands surgeons, doctors and nurses weigh in on their favorite moisturizers — because staying safe requires more than washing. the president of slovakia has, uh, nailed her coronavirus look twitter users referred to zuzana čaputová's matching outfit, face mask included, as a "corona drip." jewelry and coronavirus: what to know about washing and safety should we be taking off our rings and watches to wash our hands? will sanitizer hurt jewelry? can it spread the virus? women open up about hair loss and the stigma they’ve faced women living with hair loss explain the stigmas they face, and how they overcame feelings of alienation. the most common causes of hair loss in women and how to treat them if you experience hair thinning, it could be due to hormones, stress, vitamin deficiencies and other causes. how the natural hair movement has failed black women there's a problem with representation, even among the natural hair community. our hands can transmit coronavirus, but what about hair, skin and nails? should you shampoo and clean your nails as often as you wash your hands? 9 very good hair moments of the week, just because we need it take a break from the big news stories and focus briefly on the mane news story. the ugly truth behind hair rebonding in filipino culture in search of aesthetic ideals, women undergo painful hair rebonding to straighten their naturally wavy and curly hair. therapists reveal the specific ways they dress for patients therapists care about how their patients perceive them. the details they consider may surprise you. the fading identity of redheads what happens when the hair color that has defined a person starts to lose its vibrancy with age? separate but not equal: racial bias in salon culture not all stylists are trained to do black hair, which has created segregation in salons. my black hair is a statement, whether i want it to be or not "i’d be lying if i said my hair doesn’t come with baggage that feels like it’s literally weighing me down." pick your split ends? a psychologist reveals why you can’t ‘just stop’ it's a body-focused repetitive behavior that helps people deal with anxiety, just like hair-pulling and nail-biting. 11 weird reasons your skin care products may stop working dermatologists explain some surprising reasons your serums, moisturizers and other products can lose effectiveness. harry styles dresses like a classy grandma, and it works how can one person look this cool all the time? for one, wear gucci almost exclusively. indian women open up about the pressure to keep their hair long and straight indian hair is in a complicated, often heartbreaking relationship with the women who own it. everything you need to cut your own hair at home, from shears to clippers minor trims and bangs touch-ups are fairly easy to do on your own — with the right tools and technique. the nordstrom spring sale just started. here's what's worth buying. right now, you can get up to 40% off from brands like free people, levi's and madewell. from sandals to slippers, here are the best shoes to snag on sale from zappos shoe obsessives, this one's for you: a zappos sale happening now on slippers, slip-ons, sandals and sneakers. we'd power walk to this adidas sale where almost everything is 30% off working from home? working out at home? now's your chance to get loungewear and sneakers for 30% off at adidas. everlane is now bundling 2-packs of popular loungewear pieces for as low as $50 you can get two pairs of everlane's best leggings for $90. & other stories is having an under-the-radar sale before christmas other stories just dropped its after christmas sale early for email subscribers — but even if you're not one, you don't have to wait to shop. get an extra 20% off already on sale skin care, hair care and makeup during sephora's sale on sale save on brands like too faced, becca and sephora collection spotted: stuart weitzman shoes on sale at the nordstrom half-yearly sale step into shoe heaven with deals on stuart weitzman strappy sandals, ankle and over-the-knee boots. spotted: lots of madewell markdowns in nordstrom's half yearly sale nordstrom's half-yearly sale is here and we spotted lots of madewell markdowns hidden in the clearance section. this top-rated natori bra is 40% off during the nordstrom sale this natori feathers underwire contour bra has almost 3,000 reviews and 4.5 star rating spotted: lots of leopard print on sale at the nordstrom half-yearly sale animal prints aren't going away anytime soon and luckily, the nordstrom half-yearly sale is filled with leopard print shoes, sweaters and coats 🐆 spotted: hunter boots on sale at zappos that are a winter must-have these cult-favorite boots might not make the rain go away, but you'll be glad you have them. nordstrom's half-yearly sale is here nordstrom's last sale of 2019 has major markdowns on beloved brands like madewell, natori and stuart weitzman. there's a major midi moment happening during the nordstrom sale we found everything from satin midi skirts to midi sweater dresses on sale at nordstrom the one thing you should get from the nordstrom half-yearly sale ☁️it's the jacket that bada** ladies dream about ☁️ there's a lot of velvet on sale at the nordstrom half-yearly sale if you've got velvet fever, we've found the best velvet skirts, pants, dresses and tops that are marked down at nordstrom's half-yearly sale. walk into the new year with a new pair of boots from the nordstrom half-yearly sale we found markdowns on boots from vince camuto, steve madden and frye the must-have winter coats from the nordstrom half-yearly sale you won't be huffing and puffing in the cold with these winter coats that are on sale at nordstrom. what to buy from nordstrom's massive year-end sale if you’re wondering what’s actually worth buying during nordstrom’s sale, we found the best top-rated and deeply discounted styles. don’t sweat it: the best workout gear from nordstrom’s half-yearly sale get ahead of your "new year, new you" resolution with leggings, sneakers and sports bras that you'll actually want to wear. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up an essential daily guide to achieving the good life subscribe to our lifestyle email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. huffpost offers save online with coupons and promo codes from these featured retailers. jc penney dick's sporting goods famous footwear sephora urban outfitters nordstrom american eagle kohl's nike gap newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost style & beauty. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.