skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download styleguide – custom fonts and colors by ben gillbanks details reviews support development description quickly and easily edit fonts and colors in your wordpress themes using the wordpress customizer so that you can get live previews before saving the new settings. perfect for giving your website a unique look without having to hire a designer or make code changes yourself. all default wordpress themes are fully supported and support for more themes will be added in the future. all other themes can customize fonts. styleguide uses a carefully chosen selection of the top 45 google fonts to give you a lot of options for personalising your site. features choose from a varied selection of the top google fonts in any theme additional themes (listed below) support editing colors filter fonts based on character set – great for non latin languages such as russian developer functionality for adding support to other themes, and for adding additional fonts. supported character sets styleguide supports fonts that have a variety of different character sets. this makes selecting a font for your language super easy. the supported character sets are: cyrillic devanagari greek hebrew latin vietnamese by default styleguide uses latin. to limit the font choice to those supporting your character set you should go to settings → general → character set and select your set there. supported themes kent romero puzzle chronicle broadsheet lens monet mimbo pro opti adaline twenty ten twenty eleven twenty twelve twenty thirteen twenty fourteen twenty fifteen twenty sixteen developers can add support for their themes quite easily – see the ‘other notes’ tab for more info. if you’re in the market for a wordpress theme then you could check out my premium gpl wordpress themes site here: https://prothemedesign.com/ how to after downloading and installing the plugin you can go to the customizer (appearance > customizer) and edit fonts and colors in the ‘colors & fonts’ panel. adding theme support styleguide allows any theme to add support through the add_theme_support command. for examples check out the theme-styles directory. i have added an example of a basic implementation below. this code would be placed in your themes functions.php function prefix_add_styleguide_support() {

  // for properties check out the included theme styles as seen here:
  // https://github.com/binarymoon/styleguide/tree/master/theme-styles
  $properties = array(
    ...
  );
  add_theme_support( 'styleguide', $properties );

}

add_filter( 'after_setup_theme', 'prefix_add_styleguide_support' );
 extra fonts styleguide currently offers developers a filter for adding additional fonts. you can use it as shown below function my_fonts( $font_list ) {
    $font_list['cormorant infant'] = array(
        'name' => 'cormorant infant',
        'family' => '"cormorant infant", serif',
        'weight' => '400,700',
        'sets' => array( 'latin' ),
    );
    $font_list['poppins'] = array(
        'name' => 'poppins',
        'family' => 'poppins, sans-serif',
        'weight' => '400,700',
        'sets' => array( 'latin' ),
    );
    return $font_list;
}
add_filter( 'styleguide_get_fonts', 'my_fonts' );
 screenshots an example of twenty eleven having it's fonts changed twenty thirteen with some alternate colors reviews fantastic little plugging well done adambrown82 october 17, 2018 there is only one font that works on my wordpress from this plugging but it's all i need as it has made the whole fonts on my site much more appealing and classy to look at. more importantly, it hasn't altered the performance of my site. great work! works fine on customizr theme vanzillatwenty june 5, 2018 although it is not on the list of supported themes it does work. it is useful to check font changes on the fly - i have the free version of customizr which is all i need and this was an easier fashion to check out more fonts, since the ones it comes with is limited. works february 13, 2017 came across the plugin as i'm using monet from the same developer. obviously integration is great there, and a huge plus is a very reachable, quickly responding and very helpful support ! does what it says on the box secretaryesvga september 3, 2016 author very responsible to queries. works well no problems. i'd like more fonts but hey can't have everything. perfect. alan marsham september 3, 2016 does what it says. saves me changing code when i can just do it in the site settings. its great for tweeking colours. perfect. easy peasy fonts brent logan september 3, 2016 styleguide makes it easy to use google web fonts on your wordpress site. if you're using one of the supported themes, i recommend it. read all 7 reviews contributors & developers “styleguide – custom fonts and colors” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors binarymoon “styleguide – custom fonts and colors” has been translated into 2 locales. thank you to the translators for their contributions. translate “styleguide – custom fonts and colors” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 1.7.2 fix puzzle theme styles based on recent theme changes. 1.7.1 tested with the latest version of wordpress. add support for carmack theme. add nunito and nunito sans fonts. 1.7 add support for romero theme improve coding standards scroll selected font into view when first opening the customizer to make it easier to see what is currently being used. tweak customizer styles 1.6.1 more tweaks to chronicle add support for twentyseventeen custom fonts improve localizations further (ensure all text is written in american) 1.6 fix chronicle styles make localizations work 1.5.2 tweak css sanitization to allow more css rules add support for chronicle theme bump version number (now tested with wp 4.5.2) 1.5.1 improve support for opti theme improve support for monet theme bump version number (now tested with wp 4.5) change default font weight property so that it behaves more nicely 1.5 various code and security improvements add support for adaline theme improve monet theme colors 1.4.1, 1.4.2 & 1.4.3 fix bugs introduced with character sets 1.4 add support for next years default theme – twenty sixteen (requires wp4.4)! 🙂 add a link to the kent theme – which is out now – https://wordpress.org/themes/kent option to select character set from settings → general filters available fonts according to supported character sets loads character sets as required 1.3.1 better fallbacks for non latin fonts 1.3 allow font weights to be selected for each font improve font weights for more attractive letters add support for some themes that have recently been submitted to wordpress.org repo add support for more of my premium themes fix a some minor bugs and add additional security move screenshots to plugin assets directory to make download package a little smaller 1.2.1 make sure the font preview styles load 1.2.0 add new fonts add font preview control in customizer various small tweaks and bug fixes 1.1.0 note that this update may break some of the settings. this is a one time problem and i apologise for the frustration! fix how styleguide enqueues fonts with more than one word in the name add some new fonts to play with 1.0 first version live! 🙂 meta version: 1.7.2 last updated: 7 months ago active installations: 7,000+ tested up to: 5.2.5 languages: see all 3 close english (canada), english (us), and german. translate into your language tags: colorcolorscolourcsscustomizer advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 7 4 stars 0 3 stars 0 2 stars 0 1 star 0 contributors binarymoon support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.