style design food travel relationships motherhood shop menu style design food travel relationships motherhood shop style “does this make me look functional?” an at-home lipstick challenge because sometimes a lipstick is all you need. march 26, 2020 109 a trick for air drying your hair a foolproof trick for air drying your hair. march 24, 2020 144 real talk: vertically challenged fashion caroline's go-to places for petite clothing. march 17, 2020 169 a week of outfits: joyce lee the madewell designer shares five looks she loves. march 10, 2020 123 my beauty uniform: deb perelman the force behind smitten kitchen shares her thoughts on food and beauty. march 3, 2020 189 great news shopbop is up to 25% off almost everything! march 3, 2020 13 three tricks for parting your hair did you know that one of the most dramatic ways to change your look is to change your hair part? february 25, 2020 57 a week of outfits: mari andrew "i love seeing what people on the streets of new york are wearing, and i'm happy to contribute to that silent conversation." february 20, 2020 115 “does my hair look flat?” a shampoo bar challenge caroline tried five different bars in search of a winner. february 18, 2020 239 my beauty uniform: marielle heller including cutting 12" off her hair. february 13, 2020 122 load more about / contact joanna goddard brighten up your inbox let’s hang out contact me style most popular my packing list for our england trip seven everyday clothes i swear by my beauty uniform: samin nosrat messy side ponytail what shoes do you wear to work? four women on going gray what do you wear to work? six readers share their real-life looks a french bra trick a week of outfits: naudia jones perfume smell test load more style beauty style fashion style hair tutorials disclosure in order to grow our small business, cup of jo earns revenue in a few different ways. we publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. we also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. we feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and cup of jo (readers never pay more for products). these are the ways we support cup of jo, and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. thank you for reading! you might also like style a q&a with fleabag’s costume designer food found! the perfect carrot cupcakes design four fun things travel a long weekend in austin relationships the only icebreaker you’ll ever need motherhood 12 sweet pillows for kids about a cup of jo welcome! a cup of jo is a daily lifestyle site for women. we cover everything from fashion to culture to parenthood, and we strive to be authentic. as olive kitteridge said, "there's no such thing as a simple life." thank you for reading. read more style food design travel relationships motherhood about contact faq let's hang out