menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login submission guidelines **submissions are temporarily closed. check back in the spring for updates!** tiny buddha is a place for community, where people come together to share what they’ve been through and what they’ve learned. with millions of readers and friends on facebook, twitter, and instagram, tiny buddha reaches a large audience of motivated people who are actively seeking tips and techniques to heal, grow, and enhance their lives. the site has grown by leaps and bounds since 2009, in large part because openhearted contributors, like yourself, have been generous in sharing their authentic voices and unique points of view. anyone, of any age, from any location can submit an original post (not previously published anywhere else, including your own site), with a bio, for inclusion on the blog. this is not an elite space, reserved for experts, thought leaders, or professional bloggers. this is a blog for real people who are willing to share themselves honestly and vulnerably. what makes a strong blog post? the most popular posts on tiny buddha all have the following things in common: they are deeply personal. they don’t dance around the details or include vague references to their authors’ experiences. rather, they pull the reader in emotionally, painting a vivid picture of a universal, relatable life experience. they dig beneath the surface. the advice doesn’t seem cliché or oversimplified. it’s insightful and thought provoking, enabling readers to understand themselves and the world on a deeper level. they’re practical and actionable, when applicable. not all posts need a list of things to do; in fact, some are more powerful without one. but when the topic warrants clear action steps, these posts deliver. why contribute to tiny buddha? 1. your post will receive broad exposure, promoted to more than four million friends on facebook and twitter combined. 2. the tiny buddha community is highly responsive through comments on the site and the social networking pages, creating a rewarding experience all around. 3. every post includes a bio with links back to your site. most contributors note that featuring their writing on tiny buddha increases traffic and subscribers to their blog 4. as a tiny buddha contributor, you can update your bio at any time to promote products you may be launching. writing guidelines include a quote at the top of your post. you can find one in the tiny buddha quote archives here, but you’re not limited to these choices. if you choose to include a quote from elsewhere, please avoid song lyrics and quotes from pop culture. aim for a word count between 1,000 and 2,500 words. share a specific story from your life, with intimate detail. don’t tell us you went through a tough time; show us. what happened? who was there? what do you think caused this to happen? how did you feel when it happened? and after it? it’s important to share your lessons and insights, but the post will be far more powerful if you also share how you came to learn them. offer insights and practical tips to help readers overcome similar challenges. it doesn’t need to be a numbered list, but the story needs to build to a clear message/lesson for readers, something that might evoke an “a ha” moment for them. choose a topic related to personal growth that isn’t gender-specific, and not related to parenting, religion, the law of attraction, productivity, blogging/running an online business, writing/publishing a book, coaching, being or becoming a psychiatrist or therapist, working as a motivational speaker, or money/entrepreneurship. avoid referencing your blog, coaching practice, book, or speaking career in the body of the post. you may work in the personal development or mental health fields, but your post should be more about your shared humanity. provide original, personal, and honest work. original means your post has never before been published anywhere, including your own blog, and does not include any sections taken from a previously published post. keep paragraphs to three sentences or fewer. include a bio, seventy-five words or fewer, at the bottom of the post. you can include as many links as you’d like. reserve self-promotion to your bio (as opposed to marketing a business, course, workshop, or service directly in the post). please note that links in the body of the post may be removed. how to submit send your post in plain text, not html, in microsoft word to email@tinybuddha.com, with the title in the subject line. please only send one submission per email. upload a photo of yourself at gravatar.com (if you’d like a photo to show next to your bio). also, please include in your email the email address you linked to your gravatar account. a few more things to keep in mind if your post feels like a good fit for the blog at this time, you will receive a response within two weeks. if you don’t receive a response, please feel free to try again with a different post. you may be asked to revise to make your post stronger or clearer, and your proposed title may be changed before the post goes live. your post may be edited for clarity, grammar, and overall style. if there are any major changes made, you will be asked to review and approve it first. thank you for the light you share, and for being part of the tiny buddha community! translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top