video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map success success 5 ways to set good habits that actually stick new routines and healthy habits don't have to be an exercise in misery. elisette carlson | 4 min read why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise minhthe nguyen used to be an overworked silicon valley engineer. now, as a ubreakifix franchisee, he's still overworked -- but happier than ever. stephanie schomer | 4 min read 7 ways teams can problem solve better than individuals following these team tips will enhance collaboration and help employees solve problems more effectively. jt ripton | 6 min read successful leadership tactics in a time of crisis executives feel like they carry the weight of the world in a turbulent and complex environment. angela kambouris | 6 min read 8 ways successful people master resilience giving up is the most common form of failure. deep patel | 8 min read more from this topic success friday the 13th: superstitions of super successful people check out these rituals from the book 'recipes for good luck.' entrepreneur staff | 7 min read success i spent a day living like billionaire warren buffett. here's what happened. did following his daily habits and rituals put me on track to have $87 billion in my bank account? hayden field | 9 min read success when goop went viral for the wrong reasons, the company took these steps to rebuild its reputation what small businesses can learn from how goop handled an onslaught of negative pr. hayden field | 8 min read leadership why teamwork is the key to customer satisfaction yes, the customer should be put first in just about everything, but your team's cohesion is just as important. lucas miller | 4 min read success think being close with your employees will motivate them to go above and beyond? think again. having a great personal relationship with your employees doesn't always equal a great working relationship. joel b. carnevale | 5 min read success how does your morning routine compare to business leaders like tim ferriss, martha stewart and more? they swear by the power of a good morning routine to set them up for success. entrepreneur staff | 8 min read leadership sports cliches that can actually inspire success here are six inspiring lessons i learned while playing sports that helped transform my company. jay sunny bajaj | 6 min read success 4 ways to unlock your inner creativity with some practice and nurturing, you can train yourself to become a more creative person. syed balkhi | 5 min read success magic johnson shares 5 lessons on manufacturing success the nba legend explains the thought process he uses on and off the court to find a way to win. craig ballantyne | 9 min read success inside baron davis's turn from nba all-star to business super connector two-time nba all-star baron davis's big summit is pushing the ball forward in a whole new way. dan bova | 5 min read 1 2 3 4 ... 72 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account