dashboard login products website security platform website firewall (waf) enterprise web professionals referral program partnerships features detectionwebsite monitoring & alerts protectionstop future website hacks performancespeed up your website responsehelp for hacked websites backupsdisaster recovery plan pricing resources guides webinars infographics blog sitecheck reports email courses immediate help login we clean and protect websites gain peace of mind by securing all your websites. we fix hacks and prevent future attacks. a cloud-based platform for every site. fix hacked site learn more waf protection defend your website against hacks and ddos attacks with our waf. learn more >> monitoring identify indicators of compromise with various alerting options. learn more >> incident response unlimited malware removal and premium response slas. learn more >> performance boost lightning fast page speed with our highly optimized cdn. learn more >> clean and secure your website stay on top of emerging website security threats with our helpful guides, email courses, and blog content. guides follow our helpful guides and tutorials to learn how to clean and secure your website. learn more email courses join our email courses to receive educational website security topics in your inbox. sign up blog read technical articles about current security issues, vulnerabilities, and exploits. read now website security solutions we believe website security requires a multi-step solution so all our plans include: compare plans basic professional business custom number of websites contact us for volume discounts and for agency or enterprise plans. learn more 1 1 1 custom price none of our plans are limited by the number of pages on your site. learn more $199.99 $299.99 $499.99 custom monitoring we actively monitor and scan your site for indications of compromise. learn more protection our cloud-based waf actively blocks attacks by filtering http traffic. learn more performance our content delivery network improves page speed and reduces server load by 80% on average. learn more incident response / hack removal with no hidden extra costs, we remove all malware & blacklist warnings. learn more load balancing support for load balancing and server failover configurations. ssl support support for your existing ssl certificate on the origin server. siem integration integration with custom security incident and event management. custom sla emergency response service level agreement set by contract. more info perfect for bloggers and budget-conscious site owners.sign up more info faster response and support for ssl certificates.sign up more info fastest response time and more frequent scanning.sign up more info custom configuration and dedicated 24/7/365 support.learn more 99%support ticketsatisfaction 700+sites cleaneddaily 30+overbillion pageviewsper month average reportedwebsite speed increase70% trusted by web pros & enterprise do you require a custom solution or need to protect multiple sites? we offer flexible plans to meet your requirements. get started now name company email phone number submit we were losing a lot of valuable time cleaning sites ourselves. we were looking for a partner to outsource the cleaning up of malware to. three things were important to us: the cleanups should be thorough and fast, the process to request a cleanup should be easy, and the costs should be reasonable for us and our clients. – gijs hovens when you have so many clients and websites, we can’t look at everything all the time. we need someone proactively checking on our behalf. sucuri knows about security issues before they become a problem. – jon martin, ceo we use sucuri’s website application firewall which is awesome. for a while, yoast.com use to get hacked every month. of course we were a high profile target so people were targeting us. we knew we had to do something different. – joost de valk i asked around, and someone said i should contact sucuri. that’s exactly what i did, after i tried for hours to research the problem. i contacted sucuri and they fixed it in a couple hours. boom. it was done. – gary arndt sucuri saved our skin! immediately when the firewall was activated, the threats stopped. the site was now protected which saved us a major headache over the weekend. -jess knollmeyer i trust that sucuri has the experts. they have even helped with situations that turned out not to be malware. the customer service is beyond what it needs to be, and that’s rare. – cathy tibbles see all customers email submit ticket 1-888-873-0817 chat products website firewall website security platform website backups wordpress security enterprise services solutions ddos protection malware detection malware removal malware prevention blacklist removal support blog knowledge base sitecheck research labs faq report abuse status report company about media events employment contact testimonials customer login terms of use privacy policy do not sell my personal information frequently asked questions © 2020 sucuri inc. all rights reserved. 1–888–873–0817 live chat how can we help? x sucuri cookie policy see our policy>> our website uses cookies, which help us to improve our site and enables us to deliver the best possible service and customer experience. accept decline manage options