subscribe to get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. income resources food blogger pro pinch of yum about recipes shop january 21, 2020 yummy salmon burgers with slaw these salmon burgers are the yummiest! and made with just five ingredients. the best for a quick + easy high protein lunch or dinner. continue reading 196 comments january 9, 2020 spicy peanut soup with sweet potato + kale okay, yummmm. spicy peanut soup with sweet potatoes + kale! comforting and super nutritious. naturally vegan, gluten free, refined sugar free, all the good things. continue reading 449 comments december 19, 2019 everything you need to know about sugar free january question for you. are you ready to cut out refined sugar with us for four weeks? or let’s rephrase that. are you ready to eat super-yummy food with us (that just happens… continue reading 80 comments january 18, 2019 lentil greek salad with dill sauce meal prep lentil greek salad! lentils, tomatoes, cucumbers, pepperoncini, kalamatas, and a big dollop of homemade fresh dill yogurt sauce. yum. continue reading 52 comments january 17, 2019 coconut oil granola remix naturally sweetened coconut oil granola! golden, crispy, satisfyingly clustered granola that is speckled with almonds, coconut flakes, oats, flax, and all the other wholesome things. continue reading 49 comments january 16, 2019 what i ate wednesday • week 3 time for our weekly review! what i ate wednesday, comin in hot. this week’s highlights (and lowlights!) include: naturally sweet desserts – and my mixed feelings on them. a big… continue reading 40 comments january 9, 2019 what i ate wednesday • week 2 oh, hi! we’re two weeks into sugar free january and let’s just say – we’re feeling energized and eating amazing food and loving it so far, right? most days, yes!… continue reading 48 comments january 7, 2019 no-boil baked penne with meatballs baked penne with meatballs! no-boil, fail-proof, garlic-buttery, easy dreamy weeknight dinner. so good! continue reading 138 comments january 3, 2019 what i ate wednesday • week 1 remember this old thing? what i ate wednesday? you guys! these type of posts are old school. i used to love these posts way back in the blogging day. i… continue reading 34 comments august 9, 2018 14 low sugar snacks that actually kind of taste like dessert our favorite low-sugar snacks in a pinch, including siggi’s new simple sides. continue reading 44 comments 1 2 3 next page » hey! nice to meet you! i'm lindsay: former 4th grade teacher, now full time blogger. my husband bjork and i live in minnesota. favorite things include my camera, lake days, and dark chocolate. learn more. popular posts vegetarian vegan crunchwrap supreme quick and easy the best detox crockpot lentil soup breakfast cinnamon sugar apple cake quick and easy date night mushroom fettuccine blogging tips delivered straight to your inbox blogger resources top posts 1 avoiding blog burnout2 blogging as a couple3 building a blog while traveling4 how to start a food blog5 creating an income6 tools bloggers shouldn't live without7 photography tips start, grow, and monetize your food blog. join today. how’s this for awesome? get all of my best recipes sent to you for free! sign up to receive a free ecookbook with my top 25 most popular recipes. pinch of yum about our team sponsored content media mentions contact food & recipes blog shop recipe index sugar free january freezer meals 101 for bloggers income reports blogging resources photography resources tasty food photography sign up for email updates and get a free ecookbook with our top 25 recipes. our other brands pinch of yum copyright © 2020 an elite cafemedia food publisher back to top • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest