skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search suits by eric kim limited first edition hardcover photobook $ 140 suits by eric kim is a visual statement on the meaning of work, money, and happiness. a project of visual sociology, suits by eric kim documents the powerful symbol and lived reality of “suits” shackled by golden handcuffs. suits by eric kim speaks to the question of “happiness” in modern society–the allure of capitalistic success as well as its dark compromises. numbered editions (1 through 30) will be shipped to customers according to sequence of orders submitted. limited first edition hardcover. only 30 signed and numbered copies available. printed in full color, lay-flat hardcover 5.8 x 8.3 inches, 34 pages. international shipping available via usps with tracking. only 3 left in stock suits by eric kim limited first edition hardcover photobook quantity add to cart category: books description description eric kim’s first photobook of his working project suits. suits first edition published in 2018 by haptic press in limited signed edition of 30. invest in a copy before they are all sold out. colophon beautiful layflat design. suits. printed in hardcover in limited edition of 30 suits by eric kim first edition spreads haptic artists suits features the original artwork of haptic artists eric kim (photography) and annette kim (cover design). for commissions for cover designs for your future photography book, contact annette kim annettekimart@gmail.com you may also like… the city of angels by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart dark skies over tokyo by eric kim $ 3,000 add to cart cindy project by eric kim $ 1,000 add to cart related products photo journal print edition + free mobile edition $ 19 add to cart sale! my first photography book limited edition hardcover + free mobile bonus $ 10 – $ 29 select options sale! limited edition haptic notebook x eric kim $ 69 $ 29 select options primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta