home comments policy subscribe sunday photoblogging: st mary redcliffe, bristol by chris bertram on march 8, 2020 i took advantage of being on strike to do some bristol tourism, and enjoyed looking round st mary redcliffe particularly: a gothic wonder that i pass every day but because it is local only seem to enter once a week. share this: tweet { 5 comments } 1 gordon 03.08.20 at 10:54 am in the 80s i used to work on the opposite side of redcliff hill to st mary and it is indeed a “gothic wonder”. i’m not religious but i certainly appreciate the architecture. it’s as impressive as the cathedral in many ways. 2 alan white 03.08.20 at 2:39 pm great framing in many ways–especially that rear window. 3 barry 03.08.20 at 11:52 pm that is an amazing piece of work. 4 neil levy 03.09.20 at 12:41 pm huh. i always assumed it was neo-gothic. 5 chris bertram 03.09.20 at 6:46 pm i don’t think so neil. most of it is 12th-15c, but they were still working on the (replacement) spire into the 19th, comments on this entry are closed. recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter