search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. supernatural season 14: cast, release date, spoilers and everything you need to know all the latest intel on sam and dean's next adventures. by sam ashurst 25/06/2018 the cw warning: contains spoilers for supernatural season 13. supernatural is currently having the time of its (undead) life. following huge ratings for season 13's recent scooby doo crossover episode, the show was renewed for season 14, continuing its reign as the longest-running series in the cw's history and we doubt the next season will be the end of sam and dean's adventures. related story every season of supernatural, ranked so grab your rock-salt shotgun, chuck a handful of spell-books in the back of your ford mustang, and let's check out the latest news on season 14. supernaturalseason 14 cast: who will be in it? so, let's take it as a given that sam (jared padalecki) and dean (jensen ackles) will return and so will misha collins as castiel too. the cw scooby doo aside, the big stories from season 13 sprang from a roster of returning characters thanks to the season's alternate reality setup called apocalypse world, established after the season 12 finale. so that meant we saw returns for the likes of gabriel (richard speight jr), charlie (felicia day) and bobby (jim beaver), among others. related story 8 stars who did supernatural – before being famous whether we'll see them again in season 14 remains to be seen, but we won't see mark pellegrino as lucifer, at least not straight away after he was killed in the season 13 finale. every supernatural fan knows death isn't permanent on the show anyway. the cw supernatural season 14 release date: when will it be back? the cw has confirmed that the new season will premiere on october 11, 2018 in the us, but uk fans have come to expect that they'll have to wait a while to see it. season 13 didn't start on e4 until april 17, 2018, just a few weeks before the season ended in the us, so if it stays the same for season 14, don't expect it anytime before early 2019. supernatural season 14 spoilers: what can we expect? showrunner andrew dabb had been teasing that jenson ackles would finally get to play a character other than dean on the show, saying it had been "kind of a long time coming", and we finally saw who it was in the season 13 finale. in an attempt to defeat an ever-stronger lucifer, dean and archangel michael (the one from the apocalypse world) formed an alliance that looks set to have dangerous consequences. the cw after becoming michael's true vessel and using the sword of michael to defeat lucifer, dean found himself powerless as michael thanked him for "the suit" and took over dean's body to wield all sorts of havoc in the main universe – including overhauling dean's wardrobe “thanks for the suit”—micheal!dean #spn fml pic.twitter.com/sxezv9decu — ♔ ᴹᵃᵗᶜʰⁱⁿᵍ ᵗᵃᵗᵗᵒᵒˢ (@jrodackles_) may 18, 2018 everyone's been keeping tight-lipped on what impact this will have on season 14 and whether it will form the season's major arc, but we do know that it'll be the shortest supernatural season in over a decade at 20 episodes long. apart from the third season which ran to just 16 episodes (due to the writers' strike halting production), every other season has been 22 or 23 episodes. the cw and after the cw chose not to continue with the spin-off series wayward sistersfollowing the backdoor pilot in season 13, we could see those characters brought back into the fold in season 14 if ackles has his way. "selfishly, i'm split," he outlined. "i'd love to see these girls go and tell this amazing story, and i'd love to help them do that. but at the same time, i want to keep those characters in our world. i don't want to let them go. they're amazing characters. they're fan favourites and they're cast favourites." supernatural season 14 trailer: when will we see the first footage? we usually get new footage at comic-con, so expect to see something in july – even if it is mostly just a recap of the previous season set to some bad-ass rock music, with a bit of a tease for the new episodes. bookmark this page, and we'll add in the latest trailer news as soon as we see anything. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from supernatural supernatural star teases their final season return supernatural boss confirms final season hiatus advertisement - continue reading below supernatural pokes fun at "failed spin-offs" dc's legends to crossover with supernatural supernatural boss cruelly teases final scene supernatural confirms two returning characters supernatural boss addresses crowley status supernatural brings back another old enemy the 100 star cast in supernatural actor's new show supernatural recasting sam and dean winchester supernatural tv features ustv features features us tv tv supernatural season 13: everything you need to know the gifted season 2: everything you need to know this is us season 3: everything you need to know supernatural season 14 could bring big changes the rain season 2: everything you need to know the orville season 2: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising