i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: the easiest 7 ingredient chicken tikka masala recipe ~ 5 ingredients chinese take out comfort easy mains meat free recipes that noodle life super simple peanut free peanut noodles these noodles come together quicker than it’d be to decide on where to order takeout from. posted march 11, 2020 by stephanie everyone loves peanut noodles right? i mean, what’s not to love about a nutty, slightly sweet, savory bowl of noodles?! these noodles come together quicker than it’d be to decide on where to order takeout from. best of all, the sauce is made from pantry ingredients so you’re pretty much good to go whenever the craving hits. instead of peanut butter for noodles, i went with almond butter, but you can use any sort of nut butter you want. or you could even go with seeds and use sesame paste. heck, you could even make this with peanut butter. the reason i skipped out on that is because mike is allergic and even though he pretty much doesn’t care if i eat peanuts (he’s not severely sensitive, thank goodness) i don’t really like having peanuts in the house. instead i have a little section of our pantry devoted to nut butters. because the ingredients are so simple for this recipe, it goes without saying that the ingredients you do use should be good. in this case that means nut butters without sugar, real soy sauce (not the chemically brewed kind), and of course, good udon. i actually made this with udon that i don’t normally buy. to be honest, i was randomly hungry in the middle of the night and our usually stash of udon in the freezer was out. i found a sad package of that udon you can buy in a clear plastic bag and used that. don’t be like me! buy the good stuff! how to buy good udon udon generally comes packaged three different ways. there’s frozen udon, packaged shelf stable udon, and dried udon. for our purposes we’re not going to talk about dried udon. dried udon is usually thinner that what we imagine when we think of udon. between the two other types of udon, you definitely want to make the special trip out to the asian grocery store for the frozen sanuki style udon. sanuki udon is thick and chewy, square cut slurpable strands that have the best texture ever. they’re sold in the freezer section, cleverly portioned out in individual serving bricks and usually come in a package of five. they’re essentially pre-cooked and all they need is a quick defrost in a bowl of warm water (if you’re going to be stir frying) or a very quick dip in a pot of boiling water (if you’re going to be saucing). they are the udon you should buy. if you can’t make it to the asian grocery store then i guess you can buy the shelf-stable udon that comes in clear plastic bagels. they even sell these on amazon. they’ll work well enough but they just don’t have the supple chew of the frozen udon and then tend to break into sad short noodle strands if you heat them up too long. oh, there’s also fresh udon too, of course. the kind where they make it with flour, salt, and water; roll it; then cut it out. we’re not going to talk about that kind because unless you have a fresh udon shop near you that is willing to sell you udon, you’re pretty much fresh out of luck for that kind. anyway, all that and i’m going to say: you don’t even have to use udon for this recipe! you can pretty much use any noodle you want, even pasta. i’ve done it before and i love it. especially short shapes that i can just spoon into my mouth. so good. happy noodling! super simple peanut free peanut noodles savory nutty peanut free peanut noodles - better and faster than take out! serves 1 prep time 2 mins cook time 3 mins total time 5 mins ingredients 1 tbsp almond butter or nut butter of choice 1 tbsp soy sauce 1 tbsp rice vinegar 1 clove garlic minced 1 tsp toasted sesame oil 1 tsp sugar optional 1 package udon noodles chili flakes to finish toasted sesame seeds to finish sliced green onions to finish instructions in a bowl, mix together the almond butter, soy sauce, rice vinegar, garlic, toasted sesame oil, and sugar until smooth. set aside. cook the udon according to the package instructions. use a pair of tongs to move the udon from the cooking water to the bowl with the sauce. don’t pour out the water yet. toss until the noodles are coated, thinning out with a bit of cooking water if needed. enjoy topped with chili flakes, sesame seeds, and green onions! leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website almond butteralmondspeanut freetoasted sesame oiludon weeknight thai curry stir fry udon noodlesread better than take out peanut free pad thai reciperead better than takeout no peanut kung pao chicken stir fry reciperead recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved