superstar blogging blogger mentorship program courses forums blog success stories resources login cart · be more than just another influencer. build an online business the helps people, makes money, and lasts. are you looking to start a business online? are you looking to make some money on the side? want to learn skills that will make you more employable? hi! my name is matthew kepnes (a.k.a. nomadic matt) and i’ve been running the website nomadic matt since 2008. when i started, i had no background in writing, technology, or marketing. i couldn’t code and was lost in a sea of information. i just knew i liked to travel and wanted to find a way to share that passion with the world (while also getting paid). now, twelve years later, my website has become one of the top travel blogs in the world, with over 1.3 million visitors per month, a 310,000-person email list, four employees, and high six-figure revenue. i’ve written two books (one a new york times bestseller) and even started a travel media conference. but i started the way we all start: at zero with nothing but a dream. i know exactly where you are because i’ve been there too. i created this training program to teach you everything i know about running a successful online business. in twelve years, i’ve seen it all. i’ve seen people come and go and trends fade into oblivion. most people fail because they give up. they expect fame and wealth right away, and when it doesn’t happen, they blame “the system”, a lack of time or technical skills, throw up their hands, and give up. they say “i can’t” instead of “what can i do today that will make my business a little better than everyone else?” success is more than just information. there’s plenty of free information online. if you want free information, this program isn’t for you. but if you want someone to help you put it all together, develop a strategy, help you fix your website and answer your questions then you’re in the right place. i know how hard it can be to do this on your own and feel no one can understand you or offer you help. i had the same problems when i started. i tried tons of things that didn’t work in part because i had no one with experience to go “that’s not right. try this instead.” when you sign up for this program, you get more than just another online course giving you a bunch of information to figure out on your own. when you join our membership program, you get my team and i giving you constant feedback and support! we will be here to answer questions, provide technical feedback, help you strategize. information is nothing if you don’t have a strategy to implement it. my teachers gave me insights and guidance i would never have found on my own. that’s what i want to do with you. that’s what superstar blogging is about. it’s about being your mentor – and your biggest cheerleader. ready to begin? join our program now! what our students are saying “superstar blogging was the perfect course to learn the fundamentals of building a functioning blog. before taking this course, things like coding and seo terrified me! now, i have hundreds of readers a month, after launching my site only two months ago! thanks, matt!” – stacia, stumblesafari.com “superstar blogging was the perfect course to learn the fundamentals of building a functioning blog. before taking this course, things like coding and seo terrified me! now, i have hundreds of readers a month, after launching my site only two months ago! thanks, matt!” – stacia, stumblesafari.com “though i’ve been blogging for 5+ years, i still found matt’s course extremely beneficial. it helped me to rethink my strategy and come up with a more long-term and sustainable business model. even as an established travel blogger, this course was useful because it helped to change my mindset and taught me advanced tactics i didn’t know. the information he shares is required to run a successful blog and business in today’s climate.” – jeremy, travelfreak.net “though i’ve been blogging for 5+ years, i still found matt’s course extremely beneficial. it helped me to rethink my strategy and come up with a more long-term and sustainable business model. this course was useful because it helped to change my mindset and taught me advanced tactics i didn’t know.” – jeremy, travelfreak.net “i’ve tried other create-your-online-business courses (one was even six times the price of superstar blogging) and they never worked. this course works because matt has been through it firsthand and knows how the travel blogging business truly works. he doesn’t fluff things up to market to you and is honest about how much work it takes. and he’s not lying when he says he’ll actually respond to emails!” – trang, travelwithtrang.com “i’ve tried other online courses (one was even six times the price of superstar blogging) and they never worked. but this course works because matt has been through it all. he doesn’t fluff things up to just sell you and is honest on how much work it takes. and he’s not lying when he says he’ll actually respond to emails!” – trang, travelwithtrang.com our program will teach you: the how and why of blogging – get a deeper perspective on blogging with the story of how i started, lessons from over a decade of experience, and underlining principles so you can better serve your readers and learn what can elevate you above the noise. mastering the tech stuff – my team and i will help you master wordpress and turn you into a tech whiz! creating a lasting brand that people will remember – learn how to stand out from the crowd and leave an impression among your readers. writing content people want to read and share – through detailed examples, you’ll learn how to write blogs people want to read and share online. optimizing your website and ranking high in search engines – we’ll show you how you can outrank your competition and land on the first page of google. crushing it on social media – learn how to get heard above the noise. getting press coverage and become a source for writers – learn how to become a resource for journalists and get featured in major online publications. growing your email list – email is the best way to reach your audience and i’ll give you my tips and secret hacks on how to supersize your email list. making enough money to support yourself – i’ll show you all the high-impact ways you can monetize your website and create a business that will sustain you for years. what’s included in your monthly membership? our program comes with more than just information. with this program, you get: weekly live q&a office hours so you can ask questions and solve your problems. ongoing tech support from our team. our motto is “you break it, we fix it.” a community forum so you can network, engage, and collaborate with our members. feedback and line edits on your blog posts. downloadable cheat sheets so you can take our course with you anywhere. lifetime updates so you always have the latest info. ready to begin? join our program now! what will you learn? here’s a breakdown of our lessons! section 1: setting up & getting started the story of nomadic matt create your blog name sign up for hosting install and configure wordpress set up your email account an overview of wordpress picking and installing a theme on your site using wordpress to add content installing wordpress plugins setting up google analytics and search console learn the basics of editing code how to make your website seo friendly section 2: building a brand how to look at the big picture creating your brand how to choose your niche the essentials of website design how to design your website time management: how to maximize your efficiency section 3: writing content an introduction to writing for the web how to write engaging content how to write viral content editing your work grammar dos and don’ts writing resources section 4: mastering social media & networking an introduction to social media twitter & snapchat how to suceed on pinterest how to suceed on facebook pitching guest blogs how to get media attention networking with bloggers section 5: seo introduction to seo (why it’s important) how to get links to rank high an introduction to domain authority advanced seo: 5 tips to help you get ahead advanced seo: keyword research advanced seo: updating old content for improved seo advanced seo: the best tools for success section 6: newsletters an introduction to newsletters how to set up newsletters how to set up your newsletter with convertkit how to set up your newsletter with mailchimp autoresponders broadcasts what to write in your emails using lead generation to grow your list email markeeting f.a.q section 7: monetizing your blog an introduction to making money blogging affiliate marketing a note to disclosing sponsored content and affiliates creating digital products how to self-publish a book on amazon how to create a sales page how to market your product section 8: partnering with brands, pr agencies, & more an introduction to media kids should you take paid content? tours, consulting, and other monetization methods working with pr and brands making money via ads more testimonials from our students “this course has been one of the best investments i have made. it’s been an eye-opening experience that has created a new spark in my travel blogging adventure. the course has taught me about networking with other bloggers, seo, marketing, and monetizing my blog. it’s also showed me how to create a niche, and build upon that niche to reach my audience better. this course has been exceptional in helping me run a better blogging business.” – steve, cummingsandgoings.net “this course has been one of the best investments i have made. it’s been an eye-opening experience that has created a new spark in my travel blogging adventure. the course has taught me about networking with other bloggers, seo, marketing, and monetizing my blog.” – steve, cummingsandgoings.net “since starting this course, our blog has transformed from just a fun way to write about our travels into a professional, thriving source for families traveling abroad with kids. nomadic matt and his team break down the technical material in a way that’s easy to understand. which is good, because all that technical stuff makes my head spin! we’ve been implementing his lessons and have truly seen a difference! we would have never been able to do this on our own.” – amanda and ben, kidontheroad.com “nomadic matt and his team break down the technical material in a way that’s easy to understand. which is good, because all that technical stuff makes my head spin! we’ve been implementing his lessons and have truly seen a difference. we would have never been able to do this on our own.” – amanda and ben, kidontheroad.com “when i signed up for this course, i had no experience with wordpress, web design, writing, email, or social media marketing. i felt so overwhelmed and discouraged. how could i compete in the sea of travel blogs? but, on my launch date, i received almost 400 website visits, far more than i expected. in addition, this course will walk you through the technical side of creating a blog, providing information you won’t find anywhere online. if you’re serious about creating a profitable travel blog, then the business of travel blogging is a must.” – somto, somtoseeks.com “when i signed up for this course, i had no experience with wordpress, web design, writing, email, or social media marketing. i felt so overwhelmed and discouraged. but, on my launch date, i received almost 400 website visits, far more than i expected. if you’re serious about creating a profitable travel blog, then this course is a must.” – somto, somtoseeks.com “i was tremendously skeptical about the course, but i figured i could always take advantage of the 14-day money-back guarantee. i thought that information is free, so why pay so much for it? but, the fact is that, in addition to the information you can’t easily find elsewhere, the course includes access to two of matt’s employees and an amazing support group of other bloggers. just a couple of weeks into the course i managed to totally crash my website and matt’s team fixed the issue and had my website up in just a couple of hours.” – nate, travellemming.com “i was tremendously skeptical about the course, but i figured i could always take advantage of the 14-day money-back guarantee. i thought that information is free, so why pay so much for it. but the course includes access to two of matt’s employees. just a couple of weeks into the course i managed to totally crash my website and matt’s team had my website up in just a couple of hours.” – nate, travellemming.com get ongoing tech support the tech stuff keeps a lot of people from starting a blog so we take that worry away! with this course, you get unfettered access to my tech team (something no other blogging course offers), who will be there to walk you through any problems you have. can’t get something to work? not sure how to tweak your theme? break your site? no problem! we’ll help fix any mistakes, give you tech advice, and answer any questions. you won’t be on your own if something goes wrong. think of us as your own personal website mechanic. no other course offers this level of help. website developers cost thousands of dollars. with this course, yours is included for free! get started today $49 per month get instant access $450 per year get instant access lifetime access 14-day guarantee secure checkout your data is safe meet your instructors matt kepnes matt kepnes is the founder of nomadic matt and one of the leaders in travel blogging. his blog receives over 1 million visits per month and earns him a seven-figure income per year. his advice has been featured in newspapers worldwide including time, cnn, the new york times, wall street journal, lonely planet, bbc, guardian, and books like blogging for dummies. he’s also the author of the nyt best-selling book, how to travel the world on $50 a day, and a new memoir, ten years a nomad. chris richardson chris richardson is a former it admin turned global traveler. after running a travel blog and helping many of his colleagues with their blog, he created rtw labs, a website set up to help other bloggers install, manage, and operate their wordpress blog. his work spans across a range of online niche sites and has years of knowledge in the industry. he’s a coding and technical genius and manages all the technical aspects of this site as well as nomadic matt. what our students are saying “before matt’s program, i was determined to figure it all out on my own. i didn’t want to fall victim to just another blogging course trying to sell me things i could find for free on google. the frustration started reaching new levels after digging through dozens of unhelpful websites just to find myself back at square one every single time i had a question. i knew i needed actual help with my site. after week one, i knew i got my money’s worth. by the time i finished the course, i finally started making money from my website!” – sydney, divineontheroad.com “before matt’s program, i was determined to figure it all out on my own. i didn’t want to fall victim to just another blogging course trying to sell me things i could find for free on google. but, after digging through dozens of unhelpful websites just to find myself back at square one every single time i had a question. i knew i needed help. after week one, i knew i got my money’s worth. – sydney, divineontheroad.com “i purchased this course because i realized i had no idea what i was doing and needed guidance. since then, i have used the advice from superstar blogging to reach a larger audience. i have been featured on local news outlets and will be in two podcasts in the upcoming months due to the advice i learned here. i also earned my first money using affiliate marketing this month and have been contacted by two websites asking if they can feature my blog. i didn’t really have a direction at first and now i’m starting to get traction after four months! the response has been better than i expected due to the help i got through superstar blogging.” – rachel, amaptoanywhere.com “i have used the advice from superstar blogging to reach a larger audience. i have been featured on local news outlets and will be in two podcasts in the upcoming months due to the advice i learned here. i also earned my first money using affiliate marketing this month and have been contacted by two websites asking if they can feature my blog.” – rachel, amaptoanywhere.com “the course helped me build up my website from scratch. i’ve learned so many ways to start monetizing my blog. i love matt’s honest approach to travel blogging. i’m always finding new things from this course and can’t wait to implement matt’s tips further. what makes this more awesome is that i have lifetime access to all the wealth of knowledge and any future updates.” – nnennaya, nene-uwa.com.ng “the course helped me build up my website from scratch. i’ve learned so many ways to start monetizing my blog. i love matt’s honest do’s and don’ts approach to travel blogging. i’m always finding new things from this course and can’t wait to implement matt’s tips further. i also love the lifetime access to any future updates.” – nnennaya, nene-uwa.com.ng frequently asked questions can i cancel this program? you can cancel this program anytime. you’ll have full access to the course until the end of month you cancel. i don’t have a lot of time. is this course right for me? this course is meant to be completed at your own pace. there’s no weekly time limit. go as fast or slowly as you want. take your time on each lesson. there is no rush. you have lifetime access to all the material and any future updates. how often do i need to travel to make this work? this course is about starting an online business. while i talk a lot about my experience in travel, you don’t need to have a travel focus to get something out of this course. it helps but it’s not that important. what if i get really confused or stuck? we’re here to be your mentors. you can email us as often you as you need to and we’ll help troubleshoot your problems. we want you to succeed, not be confused. how often is this course updated? this course is updated twice a year to make sure all our information is up to date and cutting-edge. every time i try and perfect a new technique, it goes in this course. our last update was in march 2020. i already have some blogging experience. is this course for me? even those with experience will benefit from our advanced seo tips, monetization strategies, and expert interviews. experienced bloggers will get a lot out of the expert interviews, detailed newsletter strategies, and marketing tips. this course will teach you the advanced seo, marketing, email segmentation, and analytics not found elsewhere. if you’re looking to build a sustainable business with your blog, you’re in the right place. i’m not very technical. will i understand the material? that’s ok. we don’t expect you to be. this is a learning process, and we will teach you all the technical skills you need to know. our tech guru chris will be there to help solve any problem and explain things to you! you break it, we fix it! is my payment secure? we collect payments via the 256-bit encryption payment provider stripe. our website and your payment are secure, so no one will steal your data. we know how important this is to you – because it’s important to us too! get started today $49 per month get instant access $450 per year get instant access © 2020 superstar blogging | about | contact | affiliate | privacy policy | terms of use we use cookies to ensure you receive the best experience on our site. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are a-okay with our terms. accept privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled