transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support support sft sft provides the tibet movement with a large and growing grassroots base of support. sft strengthens the movement with a highly-trained and motivated pool of volunteers, and the leadership of experienced activists. sft has the expertise and willingness to strategically utilize nonviolent direct action and civil disobedience. sft provides experience and leadership in planning, developing and coordinating strategic and effective international campaigns. sft empowers young leaders who serve an array of social and environmental movements. monthly donations by making a monthly donation automatically with your credit card, you show sft exceptional support! you can choose the monthly amount. monthly contributions help sustain our work for tibet and helps us plan ahead. sft’s amazon wish list there are many things that we could use to make our work much more effective. we have started an amazon wishlist that contains useful items that we would like to have to take our advocacy, trainings and awareness building to the next level. buy from the sft store our store sells responsibly-made merchandise. you can purchase by phone, mail or online using a credit card or paypal account. all profits support our work to free tibet! become a member you don’t have to be a student to support sft! there are levels for every kind of interest and financial ability. and don’t forget about the membership benefits that you will find nowhere else. become a member today! start a fundraiser creating a fundraiser through facebook is an easy and effective way to raise money for students for a free tibet. whether or not you have the ability to donate yourself, you can inspire others to give. shop with amazon smile instead of shopping on amazon.com, go to smile.amazon.com and add “students for a free tibet” as the organization you'd like to support. continue shopping as usual with no cost to you, but feel great knowing that 0.5% of your purchases will be donated to sft's work for freedom inside tibet. donate using paypal want to donate to sft through paypal? donate to support sft's hard-hitting campaigns and efforts by clicking on this link. students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×