kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! support kottke.org with a membership already a member? sign in! hello and happy friday from the us eastern seaboard! if you’re a regular reader of the site, please consider supporting my efforts so i can continue running one of the best independent blogs out there. you can choose from three levels of annually recurring support. patron · $30 for pennies a day, you can become one of kottke.org’s 1000 true fans. please, don’t make me have to start a rambling 2-hour podcast... i've got a voice built for text! superstar · $60 honestly if you’re even reading this, you’re probably a superfan of the site. if that’s the case, i would be beyond grateful for your contribution at this level. cheers! the crazy ones · $600 the misfits. the troublemakers. you busted your ass & sold your company. now invest in independent media w/ a bonkers contribution that’ll keep ’er running until an expanding sun engulfs the earth in billions of years. † as an alternative to an annual option, you can support the site for $3 monthly. if you’d like more information about how memberships work and why i’m doing this, please read this post and this follow-up post. questions or comments? you may direct them to my inbox. if you can't do a credit card for some reason but still want to support the site with bitcoin (1azgguwrrwflfqvmj2gzrlumh3y7fopvvh), paypal, slack stock options, magic beans, or fresh-baked cookies, email me and we’ll figure something out. (people asked, so i have also added $120/yr and $10/mo membership levels.) the fine print. all payments are by credit card through memberful with stripe as a payment processor. members of all levels will be subscribed to a seeeecret mailing list for unspecified future purposes — at a bare minimum you’ll hear about site goings-on before everyone else. you’ll also receive some email from memberful regarding your payment — invoices, renewal notices, etc. your email address and personal information will never be given to anyone for any purpose (other than for scheduled payments and the aforementioned mailings). membership benefits are available only through memberful (and not paypal, etc). have a nice day! kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives