welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog edx, asu and mit announce innovative stackable online master of science in supply chain management published on: jun 19, 2019 by the edx team 2972 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post collaboration creates world’s first stacked master’s degree on edx.org from two top-ranked universities in the field today, edx.org, the trusted platform for learning, arizona state university (asu), and the massachusetts institute of technology (mit) announced the launch of an online master’s degree program in supply chain management. this unique credit pathway between mit and asu takes a micromasters® program from one university, mit, and stacks... read more about edx, asu and mit announce innovative stackable online master of science in supply chain management gaining confidence at work and remembering his love for learning: meet venkat published on: may 24, 2019 by carolyn tiernan 2569 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post when i hit 30, it was clear to me that i fully contracted the “middle age syndrome” of poor aptitude to learn new things and inability to hold my concentration more than 3 minutes. i come from a family of teachers and sanskrit scholars where learning, reasoning, and knowledge are highly valued. i felt i dropped the baton. though i had been tinkering with edx... read more about gaining confidence at work and remembering his love for learning: meet venkat leveraging her micromasters® program for career advancement: meet mia published on: feb 07, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 6969 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i first heard about the mitx micromasters program in supply chain management from a coworker, and it piqued my interest. i had been working at a biotech company as a logistic technician and then moved into a supply chain role focused on improving efficiency. i loved the challenges of my new role, but with a background in behavioral neuroscience, i felt i didn’t have the... read more about leveraging her micromasters® program for career advancement: meet mia danaka, advancing your knowledge and improving your business with micromasters published on: sep 20, 2017 by alice randall 9000 views 2 comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post updated – in 2016, we launched the first micromasters® programs on edx. available in the most in-demand subject areas, such as artificial intelligence, data science, project management, and marketing analytics, micromasters programs are a modular credential from top universities designed to advance your career. today, we are happy to share an exciting update from danaka, a supply chain consultant in canada who recently completed her... read more about danaka, advancing your knowledge and improving your business with micromasters nooree: opening doors to a global career in supply chain management published on: apr 07, 2017 by sara reich 10054 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to continue to share learner stories from the mitx supply chain management micromasters program that demonstrate how micromasters programs are helping people improve their lives and advance their careers. today, nooree, a supply chain planner at a fresh produce supplier in the uk, shares how the supply chain management micromasters program helped her get a job in supply chain when she moved to a new... read more about nooree: opening doors to a global career in supply chain management mayank: solving real-life supply chain network design problems published on: feb 21, 2017 by sara reich 6486 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are excited to continue to share learner stories from the mitx supply chain management micromasters program that demonstrate how micromasters programs are helping people improve their lives and advance their careers. today, mayank, a supply chain consultant working with antuit consulting, shares how he is leveraging the supply chain management micromasters courses to deliver impactful results and share effective business insights with his clients. with... read more about mayank: solving real-life supply chain network design problems bill: improving my career and helping others make better business decisions published on: oct 20, 2016 by jerry hamedi 9133 views no comments posted in: learner stories like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post we are thrilled to share learner stories from the mitx supply chain management micromasters program that show how micromasters programs are helping people improve their lives and advance their careers. today, bill, a seasoned industry professional and supply chain leader at a fortune 300 manufacturing company, explains how the supply chain management program is helping him stay current in his field and how it is a valuable tool for new professionals entering... read more about bill: improving my career and helping others make better business decisions reddit ama with micromasters program leaders—discussing the new innovative master’s-level credential published on: oct 03, 2016 by jill fisher 5823 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post update: the reddit ama is now live. click here. what is a micromasters credential? how does a micromasters program advance my career and accelerate a master’s degree? along with 14 of our global university partners, edx launched the micromasters credential, a new category of master’s-level online education to advance careers in the most in-demand fields—from ux and artificial intelligence, to business management and supply chain... read more about reddit ama with micromasters program leaders—discussing the new innovative master’s-level credential search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close