skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress skip to content wordpress support we’ve got a variety of resources to help you get the most out of wordpress. search for: search forums getting started learn about wordpress, both as a free software, and a community. overview of wordpress requirements new to wordpress – where to start version 5.3 version 5.3.2 twenty twenty history installing wordpress it’s easy to install wordpress. dive in to learn more! before you install how to install wordpress installing multiple wordpress instances faq installation basic usage write and edit posts and pages with your text, images and other media. first steps with wordpress writing posts pages media library screen comments users profile basic administration learn about your website's settings, permalinks, and other useful features. administration screens dashboard screen using permalinks roles and capabilities faq administration customizing find the right themes, plugins, widgets to make your site match your needs. using themes using plugins wordpress widgets appearance menus screen maintenance backup, php versions, streamlining or even automating your regular tasks. wordpress backups restoring your database from backup moving wordpress optimization security wordpress is pretty secure out-of-the box. but don’t open yourself up for vulnerabilities. hardening wordpress brute force attacks faq my site was hacked administration over ssl two step authentication password best practices wordpress privacy advanced topics wordpress is very flexible and versatile. here are some examples of what you can do, just to get your imagination started. custom fields post types taxonomies troubleshooting is anything wrong? did you get hacked? first: continue to breathe. next, have a look at these resources common wordpress errors login trouble debugging in wordpress faq troubleshooting support forums support forums can't find what you're looking for? find out if others share your experience. check out our support forums about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.