video webinars start a business subscribe books my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map susan gunelius vip contributor marketing, branding, copywriting, email and social media expert follow about susan gunelius susan gunelius is ceo of keysplash creative inc., a marketing communications and strategic branding company. she has authored a dozen books about marketing, branding, social media, copywriting and technology and is the founder and editor in chief of womenonbusiness.com, a blog for business women. books by susan gunelius featured ultimate guide to email marketing for business by susan gunelius buy now featured kickass copywriting in 10 easy steps by susan gunelius build the buzz and sell the sizzle buy now more from susan gunelius marketing 5 email-marketing strategies to conquer consumer inaction start creating list segments based on actions users don't take. 5 min read online marketing 5 automated email marketing messages all ecommerce businesses should use email marketing automation can save you time and increase revenues. here are five messages you can set up and start using now. 5 min read email marketing 5 automated email marketing messages you should be using email marketing automation drives more conversions and higher roi. here are 5 easy ways to do it. 6 min read social media marketing 10 laws of social media marketing for business owners just getting started, a guide to build brand buzz and boost your bottom line. 4 min read cannabis industry leaders anticipate more legalization and more competition in 2019 huge, risk adverse corporations with deep pockets are ready for when cannabis is legal. 7 min read hemp and cannabis leaders weigh in on the farm bill headed to trump's desk with hemp just one step away from legalization, industry leaders predict far-reaching effects that will shape the future of cannabis in the us. 7 min read 10 cannabis executives predict how ag jeff sessions' retirement will affect the marijuana industry the future of the marijuana industry could change with anti-cannabis jeff sessions out as attorney general 6 min read email 10 tips for writing emails that will get you tangible results if you follow this 10-step process, you'll avoid the email mistakes that other marketers are making. 6 min read email marketing earn 60 percent more engagement with these 9 email list segmentation strategies divide and conquer your target audience with list segmentation and personalization strategies that make every email subscriber feel like your most important prospect. 5 min read email 5 ways you can earn a better roi with your email marketing campaigns adhere to these five email marketing best practices to maximize your opt-ins, leads, email subscribers, conversions and sales. 5 min read websites the 10 rules you must follow to create an effective landing page from content to layout, your landing page needs to be seamless representation of your brand that demands action. follow these 10 rules to ensure your landing page gets the results you want. 5 min read email marketing earn more email subscribers and customers with powerful lead magnets find out what makes a lead magnet worth clicking on and learn how to create marketing content that attracts the consumers you want. 5 min read marketing strategies 4 marketing strategies that can increase the effectiveness of your email opt-in forms use these tips to get your email opt-in form in front of the right eyeballs and entice them to sign up. 4 min read marketing strategies 7 things your opt-in forms need to do to gain email subscribers increase the number of people who opt-in to your email list by using these strategies to make your forms more effective. 6 min read email 3 easy steps to grow your email list email marketing doesn't work unless you build a list of people who are interested in your products or services. 6 min read book details publication datenov 2011 kickass copywriting in 10 easy steps by susan gunelius don't just say it sell it! you don't need a professional ad agency or copywriter to create kick-ass marketing copy. this hands-on guide takes you step by step and shows you how to create marketing messages that capture attention and boost profits. "kick-ass copywriting in 10 easy steps is a must-read for any small to midsized business owner. it translates difficult writing ideas into everyday language and empowers the average business owner to write more persuasively in a simple, step-by-step process. my advice? buy this book and read it twice!" dean reick, direct marketing copywriter, directcreative.com " ...susan's warm, engaging style and emphasis on real-world specifics will make even the most writing-phobic business owners feel more confident in their advertising efforts. susan packs plenty of useful copywriting tools, illustrations, and checklists between the covers, too. her full-featured 'copywriting outline' is surely worth the entire price of admission. kick-ass copywriting in 10 easy steps is a superb addition to any small-business owner's ready-reference shelf." roberta rosenberg, "the copywriting maven" and president, mgp direct inc. "susan gunelius has created a simple-to-understand guide to writing effective and hard working copy for nonprofessionals such as small-business owners and others who recognize they need to develop this essential skill to promote their business. kick-ass copywriting in 10 easy steps covers virtually every topic the aspiring copywriter needs to know, from the crafting of impactful copy, to where best to run it. ms. gunelius' book should be on every small business owner's bookshelf. george parker, creative consultant, author of madscam, and advertising blogger at adscam and adhurl buy from: amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read ultimate guide to email marketing for business by susan gunelius ultimate guide to email marketing for business is a complete system to help entrepreneurs and small business owners leverage the power of email to build a business by attracting leads and turning them into customers, brand ambassadors, and revenue generators. provides clear and easy-to-follow instructions so you can get started immediately after reading outlines everything you need to develop a complete email marketing campaign, execute it, generate leads and revenue from it, and track the results includes email messaging samples, campaign templates, and an extensive resource section buy from: amazon barnes & noble ibooks indiebound books-a-million google play entrepreneur books 800-ceo-read 1 2 3 4 5 company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account