home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts rereading as rebirth: young susan sontag on personal growth, the pleasures of revisiting beloved books, and her rereading list susan sontag on life, death, art, and freedom labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts “art is a form of consciousness.” by maria popova earlier this year, i asked artist extraordinaire wendy macnaughton to illustrate susan sontag’s meditations on love, based on my collected highlights from the second volume of sontag’s published diaries, as consciousness is harnessed to flesh: journals and notebooks, 1964-1980 (public library). today, we’re thrilled to release our second collaboration, this time highlighting sontag’s reflections on art — adding to history’s most timeless definitions — which i culled from more than 1,000 pages of diary entries from both the same volume and the one preceding it, reborn: journals and notebooks, 1947-1963 (public library). enjoy. the artwork is available on etsy as an 11×14″ print on heavy cotton rag paper with razored edges in a limited edition of 300, signed and numbered, bearing a hand-stamped inscription on the back. we’re donating a portion of the proceeds to a room of her own, a foundation supporting women writers and artists. the excerpts: all aesthetic judgment is really cultural evaluation. (9/3/1956) all great art contains at its center contemplation, a dynamic contemplation. (9/10/1964) modern aesthetics is crippled by its dependence upon the concept of ‘beauty.’ as if art were ‘about’ beauty—as science is ‘about’ truth! (9/10/1964) art is a form of consciousness (11/1/1964) art is a form of nourishment (of consciousness, the spirit) (11/25/1964) could get a new art movement every month just by reading scientific american. (3/26/1965) art is the production of mental events in / as a concrete sensuous form (12/4/1979) why has there been no new international style in 50 years? because the new ideas, the new needs are not yet clear. (hence, we content ourselves with variations + refinements on art deco and, for refreshment + fusions, parodistic — ‘pop’ — revivals of older styles.) (8/8/1975) the only interesting ideas are heresies (6/30/1975) both volumes of sontag’s diaries are unspeakably excellent. sample them with her thoughts on writing, censorship, boredom, aphorisms, and freedom, her beliefs at age 14 vs. 24, her 10 rules for raising a child, and her list of “rules and duties for being 24.” see more of wendy’s magnificent work on her site (designed by the inimitable kelli anderson), find her prints on etsy and 20×200, and follow her on twitter. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published november 30, 2012 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2012/11/30/susan-sontag-on-art/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artartist seriesbooksculturediariesphilosophysusan sontagwendy macnaughtonwriting view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.