sign in this is susie_bubble's typepad profile. join typepad and start following susie_bubble's activity join now! already a member? sign in susie_bubble a fashion observer/lover that can't seem to stop waffling on...and on...and on...and on... interests: macaroons, penguin classics anniversary books, shoes with a good sturdy heel, matt sequins, grosgrain, i like eating anything with red beans, garlic butter and nuts (not necessarily all at once). oh, and i like looking at the sea, because the sea likes looking back at me!! update has been hidden from all public facing feeds in typepad recent activity this is me... bidding farewell to n7 >> you will see that bloody balcony no more. the outfit posts on the communal terrace will cease to exist. and, i have lost a very convenient venue to hold our blogger year sales. just in case you're in the... continue reading posted dec 11, 2013 at style bubble comment 18 when in rome... "i keep curiosity alive. i never say never, and never say ever. i'm open to change, to new perspectives." silvia venturini fendi i've become fairly ballsy when it comes to interviewing people. backstage in the throng of shows, i have... continue reading posted dec 10, 2013 at style bubble comment 8 meadham kirchhoff remixed i may be running around between flat and new house with bits of polyfilla and chipped off tile adhesive stuck to my hair and yes, i am beginning to sound like that boring and annoying person who always talks about... continue reading posted dec 8, 2013 at style bubble comment 21 maison madness in the bbc sketch show twenty twelve, a mockumentary following the organisation of the 2012 olympics in london. in amongst the fictional olympica deliverance commission team, the character kay hope bullmore is head of sustianability. then fi healey comes in... continue reading posted dec 5, 2013 at style bubble comment 14 shopped-out >> you're going to have to endure some sentimental mush as i'm deep in the process of packing up six years worth of belongings (plus the remnants from my flat before this current one, where style bubble first began) and... continue reading posted dec 4, 2013 at style bubble comment 6 bug-a-boo! >> in new casa bubble, where i'll be moving to imminently, there'll be a menagerie to keep all of the strange curiosities with two eyes that i've accumulated over the years - the penguins used in a dover street market... continue reading posted dec 3, 2013 at style bubble comment 5 worthy winners >> "black tie & british" was the appropriate dresscode indicated on the invitation for british fashion awards 2013, which took place last night at the coliseum in london. not that i needed the instruction on the invite. it doesn't take... continue reading posted dec 3, 2013 at style bubble comment 6 mauve mistrust >> “never trust a woman who wears mauve, whatever her age may be, or a woman over thirty-five who is fond of pink ribbons. it always means that they have a history." oscar wilde in the picture of dorian gray... continue reading posted dec 1, 2013 at style bubble comment 20 all drawn out as some of you might have read, i've been bleating on about the return of logomania both here and for other publications and linked onto this current wave of positively branding oneself is the general popularity of visual motifs. they're... continue reading posted nov 28, 2013 at style bubble comment 10 flash of julien it's that time of the year when it's pop-up this, sample that in london. more's the pity that i'm looking at my bank account wondering where the best part of five figure sums have gone because the new house is... continue reading posted nov 28, 2013 at style bubble comment 12 clocking it in once upon a time in amongst the rabbit warren of london designers holed up in various parts of east london, the word "brand" was a dirty word. along with being "commercial" and making "wearable" clothes, to be seen being ambitious... continue reading posted nov 26, 2013 at style bubble comment 13 you give me butterflies >> i'm remember flicking through heat mag round-ups of celebrities spotted wearing alexander mcqueen's popular skull scarves like it was only yesterday. in fact, it wasn't yesterday. it was ten years ago that alexander mcqueen, as the company began their... continue reading posted nov 25, 2013 at style bubble comment 17 artist's palette >> tokyo's sprawl of designer showrooms or "exhibitions" as they call them is the beast that keeps on giving. it's impossible to see every collection within a season without staying there for at least a month in oct-nov or in... continue reading posted nov 25, 2013 at style bubble comment 6 a different kind of slick >> the expression on a well-to-do french couple's face yesterday as they walked into the almost unrecognisable interior of the hermès store on 155 new bond street was priceless. they looked confused and befuddled as they surveyd the temporarily clinical... continue reading posted nov 22, 2013 at style bubble comment 17 the cosmology of women for all i've been packing like a mad woman but the apartment still looks like i haven't made an actual dent into the mounds of stuff i've accumulated over the past five years. in a painful process of discarding things, a folder... continue reading posted nov 21, 2013 at style bubble comment 25 wallflower >> "my pictures walk a tightrope. they never know. the photographs are like the women you see in them. a little out of balance with their surroundings, waiting anxiously for the right person to find the, and thinking that perhaps... continue reading posted nov 19, 2013 at style bubble comment 11 bubble wrapped and taped on the first day of london fashion work, like clockwork you will see me racing around somerset house in the exhibition areas gathering up some interesting bits and bobs for a shoot for lfw daily. i categorically always find something... continue reading posted nov 18, 2013 at style bubble comment 24 hello, my name is paul smith "i don't like fashion but i like you," wrote an 11 year old margo from belgium in a fan letter addressed to paul smith, one of many that the veteran designer and professional creative bounder receives on a day to... continue reading posted nov 15, 2013 at style bubble comment 19 market market time >> five reasons to go down to bermondsey next week - 1) it's the dover street market market sale, 2) it's the legendary dover street market market sale, 3) it's the legendary dover street market market sale where one can... continue reading posted nov 14, 2013 at style bubble comment 1 love gold i'm trying my hardest to resist all temptation to put on my very bad dutch accent and go all goldmember on you (a shmoke und a pancake anyone?) considering the subject of the post. or e-signing a poor rendition of... continue reading posted nov 14, 2013 at style bubble comment 19 full of beans >> "mame" (as in eda-mame) may well be the cutest nickname i've ever come across but mame, the brand, conceived by maiko kurogouchi is anything but cute, nor does it have anything to do with beans. there are two prongs... continue reading posted nov 12, 2013 at style bubble comment 15 yazbukey's supermarket sweep >> who knew that tesco's horsemeat scandal would yield an actual fashion collection? i didn't make it to yazbukey's presentation in paris but re-seeing their collection in london was enough for me to cheer on their cheeky supermarket wares. as... continue reading posted nov 12, 2013 at style bubble comment 8 anatomy of sacai at sacai's s/s 14 show back in september in paris, sitting in front of me was alexandra shulman from british vogue and across in the circular "bubble" formation seating, were all the american vogue editors. actually, there were generally press... continue reading posted nov 11, 2013 at style bubble comment 18 a touch of marc >> the last whiff of marc jacobs' design imprint will be ushered into the louis vuitton retail universe over the next few months before nicolas ghesquière takes over with i-don't-know-what-but-it-will-definitely-be-amazing. before we start peering ahead into the crystal ball come... continue reading posted nov 10, 2013 at style bubble comment 13 italian new wave >> there was a lot of well-publicised and concerned effort this past milan fashion week in september to ensure that the "young guns" of fashion in milan were being heard. look, georgio armani has lent his venue out to stella... continue reading posted nov 8, 2013 at style bubble comment 12 more... subscribe to susie_bubble’s recent activity sign in or register to follow following 1 view all » followers 188 view all » 0 favorites blogs and sites http://www.stylebubble.co.uk style bubble around the web http://www.stylebubble.co.uk © 2020 typepad holdings llc. all rights reserved. terms of service privacy policy