welcome to the edx blog edx blog how it works courses schools & partners blog congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! published on: aug 20, 2019 by nina huntemann 7048 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post i am thrilled to announce the 10 finalists for the fourth annual edx prize for exceptional contributions in online teaching and learning! the edx prize celebrates the contributions and innovations of educators in the edx community, and amplifies the powerful role that online learning plays in the transformation of education today. last year, in boston at the edx global forum, university of queensland professors blake... read more about congratulations to the 2019 edx prize finalists! new micromasters® programs offer in-depth knowledge in today’s hottest industries published on: jan 19, 2018 by elizabeth pratusevich 3197 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future published on: jul 19, 2017 by zahra islam 7268 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post in 2017, we know global warming is no longer a myth, but a rapidly increasing issue worldwide. earlier this month, world leaders gathered at the g20 summit and established sustainable development and growth as one of our world’s primary goals. the leaders’ discussed how they will create new jobs to promote the spread of digital technology for social development, with their main focus being preventing... read more about 8 sustainability courses to help you build a better future make the most of your summer with courses starting in july on edx! published on: jul 06, 2016 by justine goulart 5154 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post learn something new during the summer of edx! the summer season not only brings us longer days and more sunshine, but gives us the opportunity to accomplish a goal. so, why not make it your goal to learn something new this summer with edx courses? from enhancing your english grammar skills to developing apps, our selection of july courses will not only help you gain new skills and knowledge, but give you... read more about make the most of your summer with courses starting in july on edx! from saas to sustainability – 8 new opportunities to learn on edx! published on: oct 02, 2015 by rachel lapal 5332 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post it’s officially fall in new england, home to edx headquarters. the change in season represents new opportunities to learn and grow. no matter where you’re located in the u.s. or around the globe, there is no better time to start learning than now. don’t hesitate to join us in one of our hundreds of fun and engaging online courses. check out the eight courses below and sign... read more about from saas to sustainability – 8 new opportunities to learn on edx! for the times, they are a-changin! business and sustainability. published on: sep 28, 2015 by professor pd jose 3727 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post recently, the chief executive of volkswagen martin winterkorn resigned to allow the company a ‘fresh start’. volkswagen’s reputation lies in tatters and the stock price has plummeted by a third of its value. it is also staring at a fine of possibly up to 18 billion usd. the crime? the automaker was accused of gaming vehicle emission rules. this is not the first time that... read more about for the times, they are a-changin! business and sustainability. python programming, sustainability, and more on edx this week! published on: jun 04, 2015 by mukta g 4230 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post are you hoping to sharpen your computer science skills, and learn python? do you want to learn ways to practice sustainability in everyday life, or understand why it matters? have you ever wondered if time travel is possible? start finding answers to these questions and many more on edx, and enroll today! ready to learn more about computer science or another topic of interest? edx now has... read more about python programming, sustainability, and more on edx this week! get involved in earth day 2015 – enroll in environmental science courses published on: apr 21, 2015 by becky pineo 4904 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post looking for ways to celebrate earth day? since april 22, 1970, people around the world have celebrated earth day with environmentally-minded projects: cleaning up neighborhoods and landmarks, raising awareness to protect ecosystems and animals, and educating others about how our daily actions impact our future. we know edx students love to go above and beyond, so how will you educate yourself about the environment in... read more about get involved in earth day 2015 – enroll in environmental science courses learn about framing, smart cities and how stuff moves on edx this week! published on: apr 17, 2015 by mukta g 4931 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post future cities, introduction to typescript and the world of wine on edx this week! published on: mar 27, 2015 by mukta g 3738 views no comments posted in: learner news like this post on facebook share this post on google plus tweet about this post on twitter share this post on linkedin email this post what happens when your dentist takes an x-ray of your teeth? why does white wine taste and smell completely different than red wine? how can teachers encourage good behavior, and prevent disruptive behavior? find answers to these questions and more on edx this week. search the edx blog search go to the top of the page edx and its members use cookies and other tracking technologies for performance, analytics, and marketing purposes. by using this website, you accept this use. learn more about these technologies in the privacy policy close the cookie settings on this website are set to "allow cookies" to give you the best browsing experience possible. if you continue to use this website without changing your cookie settings or you click "accept" below then you are consenting to this. close