skip to content sustainable gardening 6 christmas gifts to consider when you’re on a budget home / 6 christmas gifts to consider when you’re on a budget uncategorized 6 christmas gifts to consider when you’re on a budget by oerjkencwj november 7, 2019 the holidays are arriving, and with them comes the stress of gift buying. choosing the right christmas gifts can be hard enough on its own, but it’s even harder if you are operating under a restricted, or even nonexistent, budget. here is a list of seven gifts you can consider giving when you don’t have a lot of money to do your christmas shopping. 1. services if you don’t have much money to spare but have the ability to perform a service, you can offer that as a gift instead of material possessions. for example, you can offer lawn mowing, dog walking, car washing, painting, babysitting, gutter cleaning or any number of other services your recipient might appreciate. anything that you know how to do well and that your friends and family could use makes a great gift. 2. handmade art or crafts there are plenty of exceptionally talented artists who make crafts, clothing, visual art and more that make great gifts. what’s more, artistic gifts are not only unique and thoughtful but you also support artists when you buy from them. if you are a creative type yourself, you can even make gifts for others that don’t cost much. these gifts are often seen as more personal anyway because you had to put the time, effort and love into making something yourself to give as a gift. 3. the basics as much as many people want fancy gifts or new gadgets for christmas, the basic items you need can be highly appreciated. for example, you may notice that a friend could use better kitchen utensils or that your wife is running low on razor blades. basic gifts like these may not be that exciting or expensive, but they show that you pay attention to the needs and wants of others. it helps them save just a little bit of money in everyday life. 4. books books are relatively cheap and they encompass many different subject matters. this makes it easy to find books everyone on your gift list will love. hardcovers tend to be more expensive, but paperbacks and especially ebooks are often cheap. ebooks can actually be given as gifts quite easily, and many are cheap or even free. there are literally tens of thousands of great reads just waiting to be discovered. 5. a game board games are the gift that keeps on giving. every time your recipient plays it, the experience will be different. they are a fun, social thing to do with others. aside from board games, collectible card games, such as magic: the gathering, also do not cost much for a pack of cards but such a gift will be appreciated by a stalwart player of the game. even video games, which are typically quite expensive when they are first released, go down in value over the next year or so to the point where they become quite reasonably priced as well. digital games, sold by platforms like steam, go on sale frequently and are often quite cheap as well. 6. alcohol unless your recipient is underage or does not drink, it’s hard to go wrong with alcohol as a gift. some bottles can, of course, be very expensive, but others are not. the yellow tail and barefoot brands are inexpensive and fairly good, as are fancier varieties such as bodegas nekeas vega sindoa tempranillo, la vieille ferme rosé and la vieille ferme côtes du luberon blanc. alcohol may not always be the most personal gift in the world, but most people are appreciative to receive it, making it a good gift option if you don’t know your recipient well. other tips if your recipient isn’t the sort to care about getting a secondhand gift, there’s no shame in buying used. some items are impossible to get new and have to be bought used if they are no longer being produced. whether you decide to buy new or used, be sure to shop sales or use coupons to save as much money on your purchase as possible. sites like yippeecoupons.com are an excellent source for coupons you can use on sites like amazon and others to purchase gifts. hopefully this list has provided you with some inspiration for how to christmas shop for everyone on your list without breaking the bank. happy shopping!… recent posts 6 christmas gifts to consider when you’re on a budget recent comments archives november 2019 categories uncategorized meta log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org © 2020 - sustainable gardening | wordpress theme by a wp life | powered by wordpress.org