skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download swiftype site search plugin for wordpress by swiftype, inc. details reviews installation support development description the site search wordpress plugin replaces the standard wordpress search with a polished, customizable, and more relevant search engine. gain access to deep search insights and all the tools you need to customize and perfect your search experience. join thousands of growing customers and bring world class search to your website, all backed under the hood by elasticsearch. what is site search? features fully managed: we secure, store, and search all of your documents in the cloud. your site stays fast. no programming required: works with your theme’s existing search.php template. drop in the site search plugin and it just works. out of the box relevance: pre-optimized typo tolerance, bigram matching, stemming, synonyms, phrase matching, and more. automatic updating: search results automatically synchronize when you save, delete, or change wordpress content. intuitive dashboard: use slick and powerful dashboard tools to customize your search relevance. deep insights: impactful search analytics help you understand your users and guide you to productive actions. choose your language: supports 13 languages, including: english, french, german, russian, chinese, japanese, universal, and more. read the site search wordpress guide for more details. screenshots adjust weights to fine tune search relevance for different post values. view advanced, real time analytics. gain insights that will help you perfect your search experience. promote or hide documents from your search results, so that searchers always find just the right thing.1. the swiftype site search analytics dashboard. here you see your top queries, top content by click-throughs, top queries with no result, and search trends over time. installation go to swiftype.com and sign up for an account. after logging in to site search, get your api key from the dashboard. install the site search wordpress plugin from the wordpress dashboard. activate the plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress. go to the site search plugin page and enter your site search api key on the first screen. name your search engine, choose from one of 13 languages, then create it. build your search index by clicking the “synchronize” button. search! email support@swiftype.com if you are having trouble. faq if your questions are not answered here, check out the site search community forum, or email support@swiftype.com for help. where do i sign up for a swiftype site search account? sign up for an account at https://swiftype.com. plans start at $79. why don’t search results in the site search dashboard match what’s displayed on my site? your posts may have fallen out of sync. click ‘synchronize’ from within the plugin to correct this. reviews costly, doesn’t search pages may 27, 2018 huge weakness: it doesn't search your pages. the search functionality is creates doesn't search your pages. it only searches your posts. second weakness: swiftype is not free. it is costly. you are paying a third party to run a server to search your website and create "relevant" search from the data it obtains from your website. and if it gets the relevance wrong, you have to manually correct it on their website. this is tedious work. the minimal cost is $79 a month and goes up the searches and documents are used on your website. basic cost of swiftype: standard search account: your site is crawled once every 3 days - so any updates won't show up for 3 days. $79 per month for 5k documents, 50k searches, 1 engine + $25 per additional 5k documents + $25 per additional 50k searches + $50 per additional engine --- pro search accouint: your site is crawled every 12 hours - so any updates won't show up for 12 hours. $199 per month for 10k documents, 100k searches, 1 engine + $25 per additional 5k documents + $25 per additional 50k searches + $100 per additional engine --- ужасный плагин ! arhidiablo january 15, 2017 доброго времени суток, тестировал для своего сайта плагины для поиска, этот плагин сразу запросил api, зарегистрировался без проблем, только как оказалось этот плагин бесплатный на 14 дней, дальше нужно приобретать его, самый дешевый вариант 299 доларов, однако зачем мне приобретать на сайт визитку где посещаемость в месяц 20 человек ? по стоимости больше чем сам некоммерческий проект. каждый разработчик зарабатывает как может и сам выбирает путь, но политика этого плагина мне не понравилась. not recommended jabalina september 29, 2016 not recommended. cheaper (or even fully functional and free) and better options too expensive nene september 3, 2016 i'm sure swiftype is a good service but i think it's overpriced. their pro plan is good for nothing as all the goodies are for the business plan which will cost you 249 $ per month i pay that much for my vps. too expensive compared to alternatives kokdemir september 3, 2016 there are great alternatives with lower price. ! kjetilgf february 7, 2017 !!! read all 24 reviews contributors & developers “swiftype site search plugin for wordpress” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors matthewtyriley qhoxie afoucret jasonstoltz goodroot translate “swiftype site search plugin for wordpress” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.0.3 update site search client to the latest 2.0.2 wp-cli fixes and action refactoring 2.0.1 polishes readme.txt remove trailing quote in language list 2.0.0 using the new official swiftype site search php client. complete refactoring of the module. new admin user interface facet management from the admin new rendering of the facet filters in search results. 1.1.50 bugfix for issue #34: removed undefined variable $retries. bugfix for issue #35: removed use of deprecated create_function method. 1.1.46 export js changes to min files. 1.1.45 added option to override renderfunction. 1.1.44 added documentation. added a public function for developers. 1.1.43 made deletion message clear that we only delete trashed posts. 1.1.42 minor updates 1.1.41 made compatible with wordpress 4.1. 1.1.40 refactor public search api to allow for integration options with other plugins. tested with wordpress 4.1. 1.1.39 fix error that caused some titles in the autocomplete dropdown to display as “undefined”. 1.1.38 add swiftype_render_facets theme function to support faceting on the search results page. 1.1.37 tested with wordpress 4.0. 1.1.36 wp-cli commands. if you use wp-cli, you can now use the command line to index your content much faster. great for large sites. type wp swiftype in your wordpress directory for details. add swiftype_search_query_string filter to make modifying the query easier. thanks to paul morrison for the patch. 1.1.35 streamline script concatenation. 1.1.34 skip null documents in indexing api request. you can use the swiftype_document_builder filter to exclude documents from the search engine by returning null. remove development files from the released version of the plugin for smaller download size. 1.1.33 fix an issue that caused the plugin to repeatedly check for api authorization in the wordpress admin. 1.1.32 faster assets using our cdn. 1.1.31 better support for wordpress 3.8. 1.1.30 allow editors and contributors to update posts in index. 1.1.29 allow javascript functions for autocomplete dropdown configuration. add theme functions for accessing swiftype search results and total number of results. add unit tests to the plugin. 1.1.28 add support for tracking search result clicks. now you’ll be able see top clicked content in the swiftype dashboard. fix an issue displaying search results when a deleted post hasn’t been deleted from swiftype. 1.1.27 add support for customizing functional boosts and number of items returned by the autocomplete, as well as disabling the autocomplete entirely handle thumbnail urls that fail to load 1.1.26 work around ssl verification issue on some systems 1.1.24 added a filter to the end of document creation to allow for additional fields to be indexed. moving all api calls to https 1.1.22 remove api calls on set engine screen 1.1.20 allow customization of autocomplete through javascript variables 1.1.19 rename category filter search widget 1.1.18 improved synchronization of posts with swiftype 1.1.17 support for indexing custom post types improved synchronization of posts with swiftype 1.0 initial release. meta version: 2.0.3 last updated: 5 months ago active installations: 2,000+ wordpress version: 3.3 or higher tested up to: 5.2.5 tags: better searchcustom searchrelevant searchsearchsearch by category advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 14 4 stars 0 3 stars 1 2 stars 2 1 star 5 contributors matthewtyriley qhoxie afoucret jasonstoltz goodroot support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.