home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles money prevnext switching energy suppliers when you’re renting leyla preston tue 19th mar 2019 5shares share tweet pin energy providers are continually raising their energy prices and the advice is to switch energy providers every year to get a better deal. but, if you’re renting, is it as straightforward as switching over? 8.3 million households rent in the uk, but only 10% are changing their providers. the total money lost by renters who don’t switch their energy provider is a whopping £1.24bn, which is a huge amount of money. and with the average family spending around £300 more than they should, it’s time to start thinking about switching your energy provider. but, is it so simple for renters? motherhood diaries discusses the benefits of switching energy suppliers when you’re renting, so you can better spend the money you save on your own home instead. table of contents can i just switch energy providers? but, how do i find the best energy deals? what happens when i switch energy providers? don’t focus just on price when switching energy providers what happens if i’m on a fixed price tariff and i have to leave the property? what if i’m on a pre-payment meter? what if i experience a power cut? do i still pay for energy during that time? what happens if the energy provider i pick goes bust? what difference does it make if i’m renting? let your landlord know in advance that you’re switching energy providers what if my landlord won’t allow me to change energy suppliers? can i just switch energy providers? absolutely, and now is the time to do it, preferably before winter when the heating gets cranked up and you’re maxing your energy power. so the questions you need to ask yourself is: have you switched energy providers in the last year? are you with one of the big six energy companies? i.e. british gas, edf, eon, npower, scottish power, and sse. if you answered no to questions 1 and yes to question 2, then you may be paying 30% more than you should be paying with your energy bills. therefore you should be changing your energy provider now because you may be wasting around £300 every year. but, how do i find the best energy deals? switching energy providers is the easy part. you compare energy providers by finding an energy comparison site like moneyexpert.com and inputting your details. it is advisable to have your bill on hand to fill out the forms, but if you don’t then the comparison site will estimate the details for you and find the cheapest provider in your area. make sure you go whole-of-market which means pick the comparison sites which don’t hide tariffs from you. and, don’t be afraid to go with the smaller newer energy providers as their main job is to keep you on as a customer and try to compete against the big six. look at customer service and make sure they have good customer ratings, so if any issues occur you know that they will work hard to fix them. if you don’t want to take that chance with lesser known energy providers, then keep searching until you find names that you’ve heard of. however, taking a chance on a smaller company may mean you can save up to £350 a year on just your energy bill alone! if you don’t want to make a change then call up your current energy provider and ask for their cheapest deal. look for cheaper fixed rates as you’re still paying for the same energy. but, it is far better to do a comparison because you may be missing out on better deals. what happens when i switch energy providers? when you request to switch energy providers you may be asked about your energy usage, but if you’ve just moved into a property then you probably won’t have that information to hand. if you’ve moved from another rented property where you have been paying your energy bills, you should an idea of how much you’re paying each month or quarter. when you compare energy providers and look for the best energy deals, the options tend to be how much you have been paying or your usage. ring the provider for more guidance if you are unsure about how to work this out. don’t focus just on price when switching energy providers one of the major reasons for switching energy providers is to save money, but making savings shouldn’t be the sole consideration. when comparing companies and asking in-depth questions about prices, it’s also important to take into account a company’s history. it’s not ideal to choose the cheapest provider on the market if they fail to offer proper customer care as mentioned above. for example, a broken boiler can cause a lot of problems for people, particularly if it occurs in the mid-winter. having the knowledge that an energy supplier is on hand to fix problems and ensure that gas supplies are safely administered is important. if the cheapest provider has been chosen, such a breakdown service may not be available. looking into a company’s history of energy price hikes is also important. paying a little more for power might be a good idea if there’s more likelihood that, after the fixed contract finishes, huge leaps in costs won’t be seen. meanwhile, environmentally conscious customers might like to utilise companies with stakes in renewable energy. what happens if i’m on a fixed price tariff and i have to leave the property? you don’t have to pay a penalty if you are on a fixed price tariff and you have to leave the property for some reason. most energy providers should not charge a penalty if your reason is that you are moving home. but, i would check with your energy provider in advance. what if i’m on a pre-payment meter? there is less of an option if you are a pre-payment customer, but you can switch providers. unfortunately, there are more restrictions placed on deals when switching, so the difference in price that you may save may only be marginal. what if i experience a power cut? do i still pay for energy during that time? unfortunately, there’s not much you can do if the power has been cut off in your area. but, start getting into the practice of switching your electricity off at the mains to protect your home. if the power has been off for days then find out from your energy provider where you stand – you might be able to claim off your home insurance as well. what happens if the energy provider i pick goes bust? if your new cheaper and lesser known energy provider goes bust, you are still protected and are guaranteed continuity of supply. ofgem, the government regulator for gas and electricity, will transfer your details over to a new company. you may lose the cheap tariff that you found in the first place, but then you would just have to go through the process of switching again. what difference does it make if i’m renting? a lot of renters think that because you’re renting you don’t have a choice in which energy provider you choose and you have to stick with the provider that your landlord prefers or that is already registered against the house. but, actually, if it’s in your tenancy agreement that you are responsible for paying your energy bills then you have just as much of a right to switch energy providers as those who own their homes. let your landlord know in advance that you’re switching energy providers letting your landlord know in advance ensures that you don’t fall foul of any clauses in your tenancy agreement. but as long as there isn’t a clause in the contract, then you are free to switch to a cheaper deal. what if my landlord won’t allow me to change energy suppliers? if you’ve spoken to your landlord and s/he has refused to allow you to switch energy suppliers, and it is written into your tenancy agreement, then this may become an issue, especially if your bills are included in your rent or your contract stipulates that the landlord has a preferred provider. unfortunately, in this instance, you are restricted and it would be best to try to speak to your landlord to waive or change the clause. mention that you are unable to keep to the high payments and that you both would be better off switching energy providers to save money every month. if you are moving to a new rented home, check the clauses in the agreement which states that the landlord has a preferred choice of provider and ask them to amend the clause to state that if you are responsible for paying your energy bills then you are also responsible for finding the best energy supplier for your new home. switching energy providers is clearly the best option when trying to save money on your energy bills. however, if there is an issue with your landlord about switching, try speaking to them about your situation and make clear how much money you stand to save simply by switching energy providers. most landlords are reasonable if they feel they are kept in the loop of any changes. and, most would be willing to amend or add a clause to allow switching energy providers to make it beneficial for both of you in the long run. *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:energyhomerented propertyswitching energy providers related posts my way or the highway 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... the other side of abortion from a ghost pregnancy (negative pregnan... what you need to do before you rent out ... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... how to clean out your garage to make you... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... how you can encourage your child to be a... tips for travelling with children feeling guilty as a parent? don’t! 5 minute interview with daniel alexander... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... how to keep your family home safe while ... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... what it feels like to be overdue… press release – launch of motherhood dia... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 5shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok