skip to content menu walks bay walks bush walks coastal walks island walks mountain walks urban walks national parks blue mountains bouddi national park ku-ring-gai chase lane cove national park morton national park royal national park sydney harbour sightseeing lookouts waterfalls beaches sydney beaches nsw beaches secluded beaches royal national park beaches dog friendly beaches things to do top things romantic things free things indoor things tourism guide travel day trips weekend getaways stay sydney hotels sydney hostels budget options byron bay hotels more outdoor gear money transfer public holidays school holidays welcome to best sydney walks best sydney walks is your leading online guide to the best walking tracks, sights and other exciting outdoor activities in and around sydney, australia, one of the most beautiful cities in the world. hiking in sydney is the best way to fully enjoy and appreciate everything this great city has to offer. new south wales is very diverse – you can walk the beaches, the coast, the mountains and the bush, and of course the magnificent sydney harbour. and with sydney’s almost perfect climate, there are lots of other exciting and adventurous activities you can do outdoors. are you ready? top 19 best hikes in sydney with so many walking trails to choose from in and around sydney, which one should you pick? to help you get started, check out our top 19 best hikes in sydney. discover the blue mountains the blue mountains region is one of the most popular tourist and weekend-getaway destinations in new south wales. just over an hour away from sydney, this world heritage listed area is home to a large number of beautiful walking tracks, scenic waterfalls, deep valleys, and numerous lookout points with breathtaking views. 15 great things to do in the blue mountains 15 best blue mountains walks how to spend a day in the blue mountains (6 day trip itineraries by car and train) 10 best lookouts in the blue mountains discover royal national park established in 1879, the royal national park is australia’s oldest and the world’s second oldest national park. from scenic lookout points and pretty waterfalls, to isolated beaches and natural swimming pools, this 15,000 hectares large park has something for everyone. 8 beaches to visit in the royal national park 9 best walking tracks in royal national park sydney day trips and getaways no matter how beautiful sydney is, sometimes we just want to escape the city for a nice day trip, or a long weekend away. 19 great day trips from sydney 12 great weekend getaways from sydney discover sydney’s sights with an amazing city skyline, several unique landmarks and lots of beautiful national parks, sydney has no shortage of scenic lookouts, waterfalls and other sights to visit. 9 beautiful parks in sydney you should visit 10 best waterfalls in and around sydney you should visit 20 best lookouts in sydney with beautiful views 17 great picnic spots in and around sydney discover sydney’s beaches one of the perks of living in an amazing city such as sydney is that there is no shortage of beautiful beaches. while some of these beaches are famous around the world and draw big crowds on warm summer days, there are also still lots of quiet and secluded beaches to enjoy in sydney. 15 best beaches in sydney you can visit year round 11 secluded beaches in sydney for a quiet swim 15 best beaches in nsw you should visit 6 beautiful nude beaches in and around sydney things to do in sydney sydney is the largest and most popular city in australia, visited by millions of tourists each year. what sets sydney apart from other global cities are the unique landmarks such as the harbour bridge and the opera house, the world-famous sydney harbour, a stunning coastline, various beautiful lookout points with great views, and also a thriving arts, culture and dining scene. 15 things to do in sydney on a rainy day top 15 free things to do in and around sydney top 10 things to do in sydney 15 romantic things to do in sydney (date ideas and activities) sydney for dogs are you a dog owner living in sydney? we’ve got you covered! 15 great dog friendly walks in sydney 11 dog friendly beaches in sydney your best mate will love plan your stay in sydney choosing the right accommodation in sydney for your upcoming holiday can be challenging task. your hotel and also the area you’re staying in can make or break a holiday. this is particularly true for sydney since the layout of the city is rather complicated. 8 best hostels in sydney for a great backpacking experience 8 great budget accommodation options to consider in the sydney cbd best places to stay in byron bay (hotels and resorts) where to stay in sydney (a guide to the best places and hotels) outdoor gear unbiased reviews and recommendations for essential outdoor gear such as hiking poles, water bottles, gps watches, tents, backpacks and more. 4 best gps watches for hiking and running 8 best hiking tents for overnight treks and backpacking trips 5 best hiking poles for longer walks and treks 10 best water bottles for hiking, travelling and work get in touch we would love to hear from you too. send us an email if you have any questions or suggestions, or if you would simply like to share your sydney adventures with us. if you’d like to have your organisation featured on best sydney walks, get in touch as we offer a range of advertising opportunities. search for: recent posts 5 pretty bay walks in sydney 15 best beaches in sydney you can visit year round 15 great bush walks in sydney 15 great coastal walks in sydney 11 secluded beaches in sydney for a quiet swim hermitage foreshore walk in vaucluse about contact advertise privacy © 2020 best sydney walks 385 39