syed balkhi entrepreneur. investor. marketing extraordinaire. menu close home about my companies blog contact search search for submit entrepreneur. investor. marketing extraordinaire. syed balkhi is on a mission to level the playing field for small businesses. 14+ million websites use his software to grow and compete with the big guys. 60+ million people read his blogs every year to grow their website traffic, sales, and conversions! learn more about syed as featured in: download syed’s free growth toolkit and receive exclusive business advice. get exclusive content (free) about hello, my name is syed balkhi, and i’m a 29 year old award-winning entrepreneur with a strong 8 figure online business. i was recognized as the top 100 entrepreneur under the age of 30 by the united nations. this is my personal blog. it is focused on “building businesses online” where i share my journey and experiences with you. my goal is to create insightful and relevant content that you can put to work in your personal and professional life. if you have an online business — or want to have one, then this blog is for you. i was born in karachi, pakistan. ever since i can remember, i have been extremely competitive which makes me work hard at everything that i do. i started my first business when i was 7 years old selling holiday greeting cards for muslim holiday (eid). my mom gave me the initial funds to start, and i tripled her investment within a month… read the full story connect with me on social media: my companies i’m the founder and ceo of awesome motive. our software powers over 14+ million websites serving billions of impressions every month. below are some of my well-known online companies: wpbeginner largest free wordpress resource site for non-techy users. optinmonster convert abandoning visitors into subscribers & customers. wpforms the best drag & drop online form builder for wordpress. monsterinsights the most popular google analytics plugin for wordpress. seedprod the #1 coming soon page plugin for wordpress. rafflepress the best wordpress contest and giveaway plugin. wp mail smtp the #1 smtp email delivery plugin for wordpress. trustpulse use fomo and social proof notifications to grow your sales. my investments i also invest in online companies through my growth fund. here are some of the companies that i’m an investor in: memberpress the best membership website plugin for wordpress. formidable forms advanced wordpress form builder for developers. pretty links best link shortener and affiliate link plugin for wordpress. affiliate royale affiliate management plugin for wordpress & woocommerce. churn buster recover failed payments and reduce involuntary churn. cloudapp instant collaboration with shareable videos and screenshots. wholesale suite best collection of woocommerce wholesale extensions. advanced coupons generate easy cart conditions before applying coupon codes. thirsty affiliates insert affiliate links into your post and pages. see all of my companies and investments work with me i do a limited number of keynote speaking engagements and business investments each year. syed has a knack for making the complex simple. his keynote was full of actionable insights backed by real results. he is a true practitioner, and one of the best in the industry. we are still get raving reviews, months later.– ryan deiss, traffic & conversion summit speaking with multiple business ventures on his resume and years of speaking experience, syed can inspire and enlighten the crowd at your next event! syed has spoken at business conferences, universities, corporate events, and masterminds. he caters his keynotes to the audience, industry, and business level. when booking syed to speak at your event, you’re getting a true business practitioner who shares actionable insights and is not afraid of telling it like he sees it (no fluff). take the next step to enlighten, educate, and inspire your audience while driving traffic to your event. hire syed to speak at your event growth accelerator fund syed loves solving challenging business problems and identifying untapped extreme growth opportunities. growth accelerator fund is syed’s own capital fund that invests in businesses that have already found their product-market fit and are ready to scale up / experience significant rapid growth. aside from capital, you also get strategy, resources, and execution assistance in growing your business. syed works closely with each entrepreneur and utilizes the power of his broad network in helping them turn their most ambitious goals into reality. unlike other funds, growth accelerator fund is very selective because syed only partners with entrepreneurs that align with his core values. get syed to invest in your business i’ve watched syed grow businesses with a level of skill and thoughtfulness i haven’t seen anywhere else. he can effortlessly break down complex challenges, regardless of industry, and turn them into actionable growth opportunities. it’s incredible to watch. he’s also a great human being, which makes him a particularly winning partner for all entrepreneurs.– yaniv masjedi, cmo nextiva blog my personal blog is focused on sharing my journey and experiences including lessons learned, mistakes made, and big-wins! january 7, 2020 this happened to me in 2019 – year in review it’s 2020 already. time flies by fast when you’re having fun. 2019 was an amazing year. since everything… continue reading of this happened to me in 2019 – year in review december 31, 2018 this happened to me in 2018 – year in review this year flew by so fast, i can’t even believe we’re already in december. 2018 has been an… continue reading of this happened to me in 2018 – year in review july 3, 2018 5 lessons from selling a multi-million dollar wordpress plugin business on the last days of 2017, i finalized the deal to sell our popular wordpress photography plugin business:… continue reading of 5 lessons from selling a multi-million dollar wordpress plugin business see more blog posts sign up to download syed's free growth toolkit and receive exclusive business advice. exclusive business advice my tool box for success super secret bonus get exclusive content (free) footer connect with me: site links about blog my companies contact careers learn wordpress wpbeginner start a blog make a website start an online store email marketing best wordpress plugins sites i like amanda balkhi balkhi foundation thomas griffin nameboy isitwp blogtyrant my companies optinmonster wpforms monsterinsights rafflepress seedprod trustpulse © 2020 syed balkhi. all rights reserved. wordpress hosting by siteground. cdn by maxcdn. privacy policy my disclosure policy contact