skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation css is fun and cool and i like it. articles tagged syntax it takes as much energy to wish as it does to plan. — eleanor roosevelt top tags svgjavascriptaccessibilityreactwordpressperformancejqueryanimationgridvueformscustom propertiescsstypographysassserverlessimagesresponsive imageslearningflexbox 9 articles sorting { 'order' => desc asc , 'orderby' => date modified rand comment_count } our learning partner need some front-end development training? frontend masters is the best place to get it. they have courses on all the most important front-end technologies, from react to css, from vue to d3, and beyond with node.js and full stack. article february 13, 2020 why javascript is eating html author mike turley 59 comments join conversation web development is always changing. one trend in particular has become very popular lately, and it fundamentally goes against the conventional wisdom about how a web page should be made. it is exciting for some but frustrating for others, and the reasons for both are difficult to explain. a web page is traditionally made up of three separate parts with separate responsibilities: html code defines the structure and meaning of the content on a page, css code defines its appearance, … read article “why javascript is eating html” html-in-js react syntax article november 8, 2019 two-value display syntax (and sometimes three) author chris coyier 6 comments go to comments you know the single-value syntax: .thing { display: block; }. the value "block" being a single value. there are lots of single values for display. for example, inline-flex, which is like flex in that it becomse a flex container, but behaves like an inline-level element rather than a block-level element. somewhat intuitive, but much better served by a two-value system that can apply that same concept more broadly and just as intuitively.… read article “two-value display syntax (and sometimes three)” display layout syntax link september 16, 2019 (why) some html is “optional” shared by robin rendle remy sharp digs into the history of the web and describes why the "p" tag doesn’t need to be closed. side quest fun: also where there will never be new elements added to the "head". our notes / read at remysharp.com syntax article september 11, 2019 some html is “optional” author chris coyier 14 comments go to comments there is a variety of html that you can just leave out of the source html and it's still valid markup. doesn't this look weird? <p>paragraph one.
</p><p>paragraph two.
</p><p>paragraph three.</p> it does to me, but the closing tags are optional. the browser will detect it needs them and manifest correctly in the dom anyway. … read article “some html is “optional”” standards syntax article april 17, 2019 clever code author robin rendle 16 comments go to comments this week, chris ferdinandi examined a clever javascript snippet, one that's written creatively with new syntax features, but is perhaps less readable and performant. it's a quick read, but his callout of our industry's fixation on cleverness is worth... calling out: ...we’ve become obsessed as an industry with brevity and clever code, and it results in code that’s sometimes less performant, and typically harder to read and make sense of for most people. he made a similar argument late … read article “clever code” syntax link june 25, 2018 resilient, declarative, contextual shared by chris coyier keith j. grant: i want to look at three key characteristics of css that set it apart from conventional programming languages: it’s resilient; it’s declarative; and it’s contextual. understanding these aspects of the language, i think, is key to becoming proficient in css. like html, unknown or slightly broken css doesn't stop a site in its tracks. you write something you want to happen in css, it happens, and a bunch of related things may happen to. i like keith's … read article “resilient, declarative, contextual” our notes / read at keithjgrant.com learning syntax article june 4, 2018 combining the powers of sem and bio for improving css author ryan yu 56 comments go to comments css is easy, some might argue, but that "easiness" can cause messy code. this is especially true through power of preprocessors like sass or less where, if you aren’t careful, your css can become harder to deal with instead of easier. sass? harder? this gist shows a great example of sass nesting hell. if your sass code looks like that, you can definitely improve your code with sem & bio, a css technique i’ll introduce you to now!… read article “combining the powers of sem and bio for improving css” bem itcss oocss specificity syntax article february 12, 2018 css basics: the syntax that matters & the syntax that doesn’t author chris coyier 6 comments go to comments when you're starting to play around with css at the very beginning, like any other language, you have to get used to the syntax. like any syntax, there are a bunch of little things you need to know. some characters and the placement of them is very important and required for the css to work correctly. and some characters are more about clean looking code and generally followed standards but don't matter for the css to work.… read article “css basics: the syntax that matters & the syntax that doesn’t” css basics syntax article may 3, 2017 css ruleset terminology author chris coyier 8 comments go to comments i was trying to think of the name of a thing in the css vernacular the other day. it made me think we should have some kind of reference right here on css-tricks, as a site with css in the title probably ought to have! so, here's the basics.… read article “css ruleset terminology” syntax terminology how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers