video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers taco bell #2 franchise 500| mexican food my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map taco bell mexican food previous | next about founded 1962 franchising since 1964 (56 years) corporate address 1 glen bell wy. irvine, ca 92618 ceo mark king parent company yum! brands inc. ticker symbol yum financial requirements initial investment ⓘ $525,525 - $2,956,765 net-worth requirement ⓘ $1,500,000 liquid cash requirement ⓘ $750,000 ongoing fees initial franchise fee ⓘ $25,000 - $45,000 ongoing royalty fee 5.5% ad royalty fee 4.25% financing options taco bell has relationships with third-party sources which offer financing to cover the following:  startup costs, equipment support options ongoing support newsletter meetings/conventions toll-free line grand opening online support security/safety procedures field operations site selection proprietary software franchisee intranet platform marketing support national media regional advertising social media seo website development email marketing loyalty program/app on-the-job training: 400 hours classroom training: 8 hours additional training: additional training available taco bell is ranked #2 in the franchise 500! bio after leaving the marine corps at 23, glen bell came home to san bernardino, california and opened a hot dog stand. but his real interest was in alternative menu items, so he began selling tacos for 19 cents from a side window of the hot dog stand. when the tacos proved as popular as he had hoped, he started opening taco tia stands where tacos were the stars of the menu. in 1962, bell sold the taco tia brand to his partners and opened the first taco bell in downey, california. franchising began two years later. today, taco bell is a subsidiary of yum! brands inc., which also franchises kfc and pizza hut. there are taco bell locations throughout the united states and the world. cost initial investment: low - $525,525 high - $2,956,765 units +3.3%+231 units (1 year) +10.3%+668 units (3 years) units (locations) where seeking franchisees: franchisor is seeking new franchise units worldwide. franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance learn more related franchises see more taco john's int'l. inc. see more del taco see more qdoba mexican eats see more fuzzy's taco shop see more moe's southwest grill see more bubbakoo's burritos franchise articles the top 20 franchises of 2020 from the entrepreneur franchise 500 these 20 franchises start the new decade atop our franchise 500 list. matthew mccreary | 10 min read #2 on the franchise 500: delivery and booze are boosting taco bell's sales the #2 company on our franchise 500 list is now looking to find its next big success overseas. liz brody | 2 min read nacho fries with that? how taco bell and others make branded content we devour branded content can engage your biggest fans, but you'll have to rethink what storytelling means now. tiffany delmore | 5 min read the top 10 best franchises to open in 2019 here's everything you need to know about the top franchises to open from the 'entrepreneur' franchise 500. entrepreneur staff | 8 min read #4 on the franchise 500: why taco bell has its sights set on your city the #4 company on our franchise 500 list knows that to grow its customer base, it must go where customers are: metropolitan communities. matthew mccreary | 2 min read disclaimer the franchise 500 is not intended to endorse, advertise, or recommend any particular franchise. it is solely a research tool you can use to compare franchise operations. entrepreneur stresses that you should always conduct your own independent investigation before investing money in a franchise. updated: september 26th, 2019 reprints & licensing update your listing submit new listing franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance regions/states list company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account