petite anglaise june 2, 2009 party planner filed under: tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 2:04 pm every time i think about tadpole’s upcoming sixth birthday party i am filled with dread. in previous years i’d always had a cast-iron excuse not to throw one. when she was three, for example, tadpole hadn’t yet started pre-school and only knew the two other children our childminder cared for. despite the fact that we’d been separated for over a year by this time, mr frog and i rallied around and took tadpole on a day out to disneyland paris, with the help of a kind reader of this blog who worked at disney head office and offered us free entry passes. the following year, there was no question of throwing a children’s party in the minuscule flat tadpole and i had, by then, moved into, and as mamie and papy happened to be in town staying with mr frog, all that was required of me was to head over to his place with cake to drink a glass of bubbly with them while tadpole ripped open her presents. tadpole turned five two days after my wedding day and, as space was still a huge limiting factor, i simply invited over a couple of friends and their children for cake and wedding party leftovers, which we shared in my tiny living room cum bedroom. dazed from the exertions of the weekend, i was inordinately proud of myself for having managed a return taxi trip to pantin to retrieve tadpole’s oversized birthday parcel (a wooden dolls’ house) from the postal sorting centre so that her gift would be awaiting her in her bedroom when she got home from school. this year, however, i’ve finally run out of excuses. i now have the space necessary in order to invite seven of tadpole’s favourite classmates over for the traditional 3pm to 6pm party slot. tadpole is ecstatic at the prospect – and has been since approximately september last year. meanwhile i’m at my wits’ end, wondering how on earth i’m supposed to entertain eight children for three whole hours, indoors. after all, blowing out the candles and eating a slice of cake (or two) will take all of ten minutes, won’t it? french children, you see, don’t eat dinner until at least 7pm. so the british birthday tea is replaced by a mere late afternoon snack. “what did you play last weekend when you were at milan’s party?” i enquire of tadpole, trying to glean as much useful information as possible while concealing my rising tide of panic. “we pinned the tail on a pig,” tadpole replies, after a long pause, seemingly unable to recall any of the other activities which took place. “with a bandeau over our eyes… and then we went outside and played in the cour.” i sigh. letting the children run around in our small communal courtyard was an option i’d been entertaining until construction workers begin to use it as a storage facility a week ago, due to structural work to be carried out on a neighbouring building. when i discussed the impending party with mr frog – it’s actually taking place on one of his weekends – he graciously consented to bring tadpole over in time for the party and said he would probably stay “for a little while”. meanwhile, the boy, who – quite understandably – has little desire to share his saturday afternoon with a throng of shrieking, sugar-fuelled children and, what is more, doesn’t wish to trample on mr frog’s toes, is planning to make himself scarce. which just leaves me and my rapidly expanding waistline, armed with any suggestions my kind readers are able share in the comments box below… update: it went really well! thank you for all the suggestions. i cut the party down to two and a half hours, banished boys altogether (!) – aside from the boy, who was brilliant. we alternated boisterous games with quieter activities (making bracelets, decorating iced shortbread biscuits). successes included ‘pin the nose on the hello kitty’, a race involving smarties and drinking straws, a variation on musical bumps where the last one to sit each time had to put on an item from the dressing up bag of tricks until everyone had three hats and dissolved in a mass of giggles… and a kind fellow parent turned up a little before the end and made balloon animals. all in all, a resounding success! comments (105) april 7, 2009 happy filed under: tadpole rearing, tadpole says — petiteanglaiseparis @ 5:33 pm i am shelling peas in the kitchen while listening to some vintage aphex twin when i realise that tadpole has gone disturbingly quiet. ‘sweetie? what are you up to?’ i call, peering over the bar, from which vantage point i can see the whole of our open-plan apartment. save the bathroom and toilet, that is. there is no sign of tadpole, however, and i have a sudden, irrational vision of her drawing 3d pictures on the bathroom floor with a tube of toothpaste. ‘i’m doing a poo!’ shouts tadpole. ‘well… actually, i’ve finished doing my poo, and now i’m reading the book about the bunny.’ the people who designed our apartment thoughtfully built in some shelf space above the toilet, and this hosts our extensive ‘toilet book’ collection. highlights include our larson collection, the foreign editions of ‘petite’, several tomes by desproges and ‘the book about the bunny’, a.k.a. the bumper book of bunny suicides. tadpole loves poring over this, even though i hope/feel sure that she doesn’t really understand a) why a bunny would want to commit suicide, and b) how he’s planning to go about it in many of the instances illustrated. ‘you don’t have to read that on the toilet, you know,’ i tell her, when she emerges, finally, a full ten minutes later. ‘you can borrow books from the toilet library. as long as you put them back afterwards…’ which is why this morning, i found tadpole with her head bent over a copy of fellow blogger andre‘s if you’re happy and you know it‘ at the breakfast table. indeed, not just looking at it, but reproducing several of the doodles herself with the help of a biro she’d pilfered from my handbag. i do hope andre approves. comments (22) march 25, 2009 malentendus filed under: tadpole rearing, tadpole says — petiteanglaiseparis @ 1:09 pm i introduced the idea of a new addition to our family several months ago, long before i began taking folic acid or dispensed with taking ‘precautions’. tadpole was predictably delighted at the prospect of having a little brother or sister to fuss over and urged me to ‘put a baby in my tummy’ as soon as possible. ‘will daddy come to live with us when we have a new baby?’ she asks me, between spoonfuls of cereal, a few days after our first discussion. ‘so he can help us to look after it?’ ‘um, no… i shouldn’t think so,’ i reply with a frown. i’m about to ask her why she would think such a thing, when realisation suddenly dawns. in tadpole-logic, i realise, mr frog is the only possible daddy and therefore it stands to reason that he will father all my children. hence the assumption that he will be sharing the responsibility for caring for the baby, which he can’t very well do if he is living 400m down the road. i take a sip of coffee before embarking on my explanation. best to test my theory first, i decide. so i begin with a tentative question. ‘when i have a baby,’ i begin, ‘who do you think the baby’s daddy will be?’ ‘daddy,’ tadpole replies, her scornful tone making it abundantly clear that she considers my question a foolish one. i sigh and glance towards the bedroom, wondering whether the boy can hear us. he could be awake – after all, he just snoozed the alarm not twice, but three times – but there is no way of knowing for sure, as he seems to be capable of banging his fist on the alarm clock in his sleep. ‘honey,’ i say gently. ‘when daddy and i made you, we were living in the same house. now i’m living with manuel. i’m married to manuel. so this time it’s going to be different. the baby’s daddy won’t be your daddy. it will be manuel.’ ‘oh,’ tadpole replies. she falls silent, processing this new information, then gives me a smile and a nod, and spoons more cereal into her mouth. ‘so the baby will call manuel ‘daddy’, i continue, thinking it advisable to press the point home while i have tadpole’s undivided attention. ‘but you’ll still call him manuel. and you’ll call your daddy ‘daddy’. tadpole nods again, her mouth full. a few weeks later, when the future baby has become less an abstract concept than a grape-sized mini-foetus swimming in nausea-inducing circles, we are discussing the easter holidays, when tadpole will stay with mr frog’s parents for a week, as per usual. ‘when the baby is born,’ tadpole says, ‘it will come with me to stay at mamie and papy‘s house, won’t it? because they will be the grandparents of the baby too.’ i smile and shake my head. this is going to be more complicated than i thought. comments (50) march 10, 2009 skateboard filed under: tadpole rearing — petiteanglaiseparis @ 7:43 pm so… i’ve actually been back for ten days now, and it’s taken me this long to get my act together and upload my favourite photos, let alone open up the “write” tab in wordpress. the belated honeymoon holiday was sublime and i wanted to blog about it, really i did. but ever since i got home i’ve been fighting back waves of quasi-constant nausea and enduring more than my fair share of insidious, light-sensitive headaches, with the result that i’ve been pretty exhausted and have spent my days doing more sleeping than anything else. and all because i found out, on the eve of our honeymoon, that the boy and i are expecting a baby. it’s early days to be making any sort of announcement, i realise, but i weighed up the pros and cons of coming clean and decided that if anything were to go wrong, god forbid, i’d want to be able to write about it here, so i see no real reason to hold back. i’m 7 weeks in – counting from the beginning of my last cycle, as there are, it transpires, different ways to count – and the automated email that popped into my inbox this morning tells me that the embryo currently resembles a very small tadpole, which i thought rather fitting. my five year-old tadpole, who recently borrowed babette cole’s hilarious ‘mummy laid an egg‘ from the school library, is convinced the baby was conceived while the boy and i were balancing precariously atop a skateboard. i like the mental image this conjures up so much that, for the time being, i’m afraid i can’t bring myself to disabuse her… image © babette cole comments (166) older posts » search for: about books press fbk potted petite prologue burned null and void part time mummy baggage singing in tongues eleven days later semi-detached suspendered sunday archives january 2011 november 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 january 2008 december 2007 november 2007 october 2007 september 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 february 2007 january 2007 december 2006 november 2006 october 2006 september 2006 august 2006 july 2006 june 2006 may 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 january 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 september 2005 august 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 april 2005 march 2005 february 2005 january 2005 december 2004 november 2004 october 2004 september 2004 august 2004 july 2004 categories adoption book stuff city of light french touch good time girl knocked up knot tying miam mills & boon misc missing blighty navel gazing on the road parting ways single life tadpole rearing tadpole says tadpole sings uncategorized working girl stats 638 posts 27,981 comments © catherine sanderson 2004-2009 blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel