instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "tag along toys" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: tag along toys rebecca 3 min read december 12, 2018 no reply create a wow stocking stuffed with fun, unique and useful items shopping this post is in partnership with blog advertiser tag along toys i love filling the stockings every christmas. the kids receive one from santa, and andy and i fill each other’s. it’s long been known that in our family, stockings are important. sure, the kids are anxious to see what’s under the tree, but the stocking is where the real thought process comes into play. items have to fit in the stocking itself, and coming up with the best items to drop in (including budget-friendly ones) are a challenge. here are some stocking stuffer ideas for you that are some of our go-tos for the kids. then, keep reading to see a few items that i have found at tag along toys for the stockings that i think kids will love! some of them are going into our stockings too! what to put in your child’s stocking stickers (this is a great time to find special ones that are unique, or that are the theme for a fave game/sporting team/hobby) art supplies – there is always a need for new markers and paint brushes! balls or pucks – road hockey balls, hockey pucks, tennis balls and badminton birdies fit well! dvds books or magazines personalized items for them – we tend to include hobby items like guitar pics nail polish (there are some great child friendly options!) stamps play food (i remember filling my son’s stocking when he was younger with this!) mini figures stuffies (beanie boos are always a favourite!) play-doh cards (sports cards, deck of cards etc) stocking stuffers at tag along toys holiday playfoam how cute are these? both of my kids are getting this playfoam this year. they’ll love how it feels! fortnite notebooks i think you can tell what video game my son was into each year based on what little themed item he received in his stocking that year. this year, of course, will be this fortnite notebook! the journal is a great pick too! lego minifigures always a hit. plus, there’s something fun about opening the package to see which one you get! jewellery a mood ring, or a bracelet, are perfect gifts to tuck into a stocking! calico critters have your children discovered calico critters? my daughter has been playing with them for some time, and my nieces love them. they are tiny and come with tiny parts but i think that’s partly why they enjoy them – she sets up the little furniture in the living room that includes a tiny telephone and other accessories with joy! and, they are cute. the little character packs are great for the stocking. science experiments i love these mini science experiments. they are perfect to encourage the kids to experiment without committing to a larger activity. old fashioned fun there was one year my son got a paddle ball and he was thrilled; and both the kids still pull it out to play with (although, admittedly, it wasn’t as popular as the cup and ball has been!) practical, but fun, items hair brushes, lip balm, and even socks can all be added into a stocking but they don’t need to be boring. you can find fun options to include! there are so many stocking stuffer ideas at tag along toys in ottawa. browse one of their two locations (bank street, or in kanata) and you’ll easily find amazing items to tuck in the stockings for a real wow effect! one final question: do you wrap the items in the stockings or no? (i am definitely on team wrap them) rebecca 3 min read september 22, 2017 1 reply birthday gift ideas under $25 at tag along toys shopping birthday party season is back, mostly because school is back. when we are all travelling and busy with summer holidays, i find there are fewer birthday party invites (or fewer that we are able to attend maybe) but as school begins, and friendships form, we see more invitations coming home. plus, in my family, we celebrate four kiddo birthdays (cousins, my son) so it doesn’t take long for birthday gift shopping to become overwhelming. so many birthday gifts i get are from tag along toys in ottawa. i love the selection, and when i’m buying for someone who we don’t know as well, or who may have different toy tastes than my own children, it’s easy to grab something unique and fun at tag along toys. the other benefit: free gift wrapping at tag along toys! you don’t even need to worry about buying paper and ribbon, they’ll take care of that for you (and they have a fun, cute selection of paper to choose from!) did you know @tagalongtoys in #ottawa has free gift wrapping? via @bitofmomsense click to tweet from trendy toys to science to crafts and stuffed animals, there’s something for every kid of every age. i’ve rounded up a few selections that i found recently all under $25. happy gift giving! super hero lego (wonder woman!) there are a couple different dc super hero sets, but i couldn’t help but be drawn to the wonder woman one! beenie boos i love the price point on these, and they are always so popular! they are great paired with another gift too. puzzles i love gorgeous puzzles. i used to think i didn’t like doing them, but turns out, as a family, it’s a fun activity. last year we got a couple new ones and it was nice setting it up on the coffee table and adding some pieces each day. i think this archie puzzle will be popular this year (plus, they have so many more in store!) hands on learning activities and science kits i picked out this catapult because it looks cool, and we had one a couple years ago that was similar to this and it was a big hit. there are many boxed science kits and activities that are fun and educational at tag along toys. crafts (like this bookmark making set) i love the craft options. they are in boxes and ready to go and range from items like this cute bookmark making set, to jewellery making, to painting and more. i love giving (and getting) crafts because they are activities the kids can spend time doing and not take up any more room once complete. card game/board game we have a couple of these trivia card games and my son loves them (and we love playing them too!) what’s nice about giving a board game or card game as a gift is that if it’s a family favourite of yours, you can tell the gift receiver why you love it and it seems more personal. if you are looking to purchase any of these items, tag along toys has two locations in ottawa! gift ideas for kids under $25 from @tagalongtoys in #ottawa via @bitofmomsense click to tweet disclosure: tag along toys is a blog advertiser. all opinions are my own rebecca 1 min read june 27, 2017 no reply have you been to tag along toys lately? shopping it’s no secret that i love tag along toys. from the selection of arts and crafts, to science kits, to sweet gifts for all the kids in my life, it’s my go-to toy store. a couple of years ago when they opened a new location on bank street i was thrilled. it was a bit closer which of course made everything so much easier for me! but when i learned that they had renovated and updated the space in kanata, i naturally wanted to go check it out. as always the space remains a welcoming place to shop with the friendly service that we’ve all come to know from tag along toys. while the space is a bit smaller, the removal of some shelving units has opened up a lot of the shelves to make it even easier to find all of the items you are looking for. they’ve been able to bring in more crafts, and more lego selection (two very popular areas.) i love the spaces near the window and the check out area with loot bag items and small add-on gifts that are so unique and interesting! as always, tag along offers free gift wrapping, will assist in creating loot bags for your party if you need them to, and has items for babies all the way up to teens and the young at heart. now’s a great time to check out the new layout in kanata, or swing by the bank street location for your next birthday gift or outdoor toy you need now that the nice weather is here. ps: a chocolate shop has opened up beside them. now i have even more reason to head back out to kanata! happy shopping! *tag along toys is a blog advertiser rebecca 3 min read may 24, 2017 1 reply the fidget spinner has entered my house parenting if you are a parent with school-aged kids, have been on facebook in the past month, or have a child who requires a fidget toy as part of their educational plan, than you already know about fidget spinners. they seemed to burst onto the parenting scene recently, and they have become a topic that seems to divide many. are they helping kids to concentrate? are they a distraction? are they just a lot of fun? thanks to tag along toys, we have a very cool looking blue camo fidget spinner in our home now. while we haven’t taken it to school yet, it has come along on grocery shopping trips and both kids have taken to playing with it. i’m in the ‘i don’t see anything wrong with these and hopefully they are helping some kids out’ camp i was hoping a fidget spinner would help my son stop chewing his nails, especially when he’s watching tv. there are times when i’m happy to see him playing with the fidget spinner, distracting himself from chewing or from tossing elastics all over the house (a random thing he would do when he’d spot one!) my daughter likes watching it spin and both use the spinner as a toy, something for enjoyment (see also: bottle flipping). fidget spinners! for indoors and out ;). @tagalongtoys kindly gave me one and my son couldn’t be happier. not to mention he scored a coveted blue camo (he informs me that everyone wanted this style 😉 there have been plenty of articles written about these but what i’m hoping is that it helps him stop chewing his nails. so far he’s loving it and it’s keeping his hands busy. i’ll share more soon! want one of your own? both @tagalongtoys locations have them! i think they are pretty neat! #blogad #shoplocal #ottawa a post shared by rebecca s (@bitofmomsense) on may 18, 2017 at 5:35am pdt i think the way it works is pretty neat, and i can see the appeal. i’m finding myself playing with it too! i like the thought of a toy that helps kids in the classroom or at home being accepted by kids of all ages. i don’t find it distracting when the kids are using it, but if i was in a class of 30, trying to get them to learn, maybe i would have a different opinion. i do hope that bans aren’t something that happen across the schools, or that the popularity prevents kids who need it from being able to use it. i think in general, it’s a fun, interesting toy that doesn’t seem to be problematic or annoying for parents (see also: bottle flipping). tag along toys has a selection of really neat looking spinners so you can score your own to check it out if interested. some fancy glitter fidget spinners arrived in store 🙂 #ottawa #kanata #fidgetspinner a post shared by patti (@tagalongtoys) on may 24, 2017 at 7:41am pdt my son’s review: “it’s awesome” me: “why is it awesome?” him: “because it’s awesome” (don’t you love answers like that?) i continue. “what else?” “it’s satisfying. i like watching it spin” that’s an interesting point and while he’s waiting around, if he can spin his spinner, i’m happy for him to do so. do you have a fidget spinner? disclosure: tag along toys is a blog advertiser and gave me a spinner to try. all opinions are my own. or my son’s. rebecca 2 min read october 19, 2016 no reply save 20% at tag along toys until october 23 shopping announcing the amazing 20% off sale at tag along toys! from wednesday, october 19 until sunday, october 23, save 20% on everything in store at tag along toys (*discount doesn’t apply on katerina mertikas puzzles). save 20% until october 23 at @tagalongtoys! #ottawa #shoplocal via @bitofmomsense click to tweet while it’s no secret that tag along toys is a long time blog advertiser, what you may not know is that i am also a customer – a frequent customer. for birthday gifts and holiday gifts, i find some special, unique gifts at tag along toys. it’s one reason why i was so thrilled when patti opened up at the bank street location; it was closer for me to get to! i have always loved the service at tag along toys and the variety of items for kids is amazing. i love that there is something for everyone, including babies, older kids and those who are young at heart. my own children could give a long list of ideas for themselves just by browsing in the store. each year, my sisters, mom and myself plan a holiday shopping day out. we hit a few stores, grab some food and just enjoy a busy day of visiting and having fun. we always end up at tag along toys because we all can find amazing gifts there. this sale is a huge one! the store often has this sale around this time of year as a kick off to a very busy holiday season. it’s the perfect time to stock up on birthday gifts (we have three family birthdays in november!), early christmas shopping, and more. looking for other reasons to go to the tag along toys sale? excellent customer service unique gifts that you likely won’t find other places free gift wrapping! you’ll be supporting local beat the crowds and shop for the holidays early! keep an eye out on the tag along toys facebook page for product updates or if you have questions. happy shopping! rebecca 3 min read june 24, 2016 1 reply get outside and play! summer toys your kids will love parenting i am a firm believer that my kids don’t need toys to play all the time, especially outside. they need their imaginations, and sometimes something simple like a ball or a stick. however, there outdoor summer toys that they do have and use are invaluable to us. our wee sprinkler, the basketballs, the sidewalk chalk – these are items that i would happily invest in over and over again. there are always a few new toys that i love getting for the kids, or giving as birthday presents to other kids. when i visited tag along toys recently, i was in love with the selection of fun outdoor doors that not only will get the kids active (which is hugely important) but also use their creative skills. you can visit in-store, or browse their website for some options. here are some of my top summer toy picks that i think my family (and yours!) will love! 1. paw patrol sprinkler do you have a paw patrol fan in your home? this sprinkler that goes into the grass is adorable! i like small sprinklers for those of us with smaller yards especially! 2. baseball slip and slide. quick! i need a bigger yard and then need to buy this! how awesome is this?!! it’s a slip and slide (slide home! yay) and it has a little tee to use. i want this! my kids would love it! 3. kites you can’t tell me that it’s not fun to fly a kite. if you have the space (be careful around overhead wires and trees!) i think kite flying is a skill all kids should learn. 4. water balloons when was the last time you had a water balloon fight? it was probably when i was a kid. do you remember how much fun they were? these bunch o’ balloons fill up with a special attachment and hose all at once. how much fun would this be? 5. chalk designer pretty sure my daughter would love this. gorgeous giant stencils to make beautiful chalk designs. i think this would be a wonderful summer birthday gift too! 6. pool float tag along toys has a lot of pool floaties to choose from but i really loved how cute this giant donut one was. if you have a pool, or know someone who does, this is a fun option when floating around this summer! 7. whale sprinkler i know, i already listed a sprinkler, but honestly, it’s one of the best things we have in our back yard. this one is a bit bigger but i think would be a hit with kids of all ages! 8. non-spilling bubble bucket go ahead and think about how much bubble solution you go through each year. it’s a lot right? and the primary reason? likely thanks to spills. i love the giant bubble bucket that can sit on the deck or ground and little hands can help themselves when they say ‘my turn!’ no matter what summer toys you have, remember to get out with the kids and play with them too! it’s fun to relive some of our own childhood games and activities. disclosure: tag along toys is a blog advertiser, but all opinions are my own. rebecca 2 min read may 6, 2015 no reply toys that will put a spring in your step play, shopping this weather is glorious! yes, i’m yelling, but after a long, cold, not-fun winter, i think we all can yell in celebration about this weather. after our weekend away in niagara, we came home to a completely different ottawa. hot weekend temperatures here meant that the grass was greener, trees more in bloom and flip flops were in full force. this weather also means that we are outside more. spring fun outdoors lifts all of our spirits. being able to head outside after school to a park, or just heading to the backyard makes us happy! i love seeing the kids play hop scotch, or when we play what time is is mr. wolf? flying a kite is always a hit too! we don’t always need elaborate games or activities, just classic ones that are fun! looking for some new spring inspiration when heading outside? blog advertiser tag along toys always has the perfect items for some extra family fun. here are a few of my favourites for the entire family. 1- skipping ropes i’ve been especially happy to see so many skipping ropes around the school yard. this is a classic game that is great for our health too! have you tried skipping lately? it’s hard now! 2- jax i was terrible at this as a kid, but seem to have gotten slightly better now. it’s a fun game to play outside on the patio stones! 3- skip along did you have one? i think my sister did. i didn’t. why? because i had zero coordination. it’s a variation on skipping that can be fun once it gets going. i think i’m better at hula hooping! 4- garden tools i love getting the kids to help in our garden. i’ve mentioned before that we don’t have a very large garden or backyard but we do like to take care of it. encourage the kids to help! 5- scooters we don’t have these, yet. i think about getting them for the kids a lot; they would be so fun! and given that our bike riding doesn’t always happen easily, this might be a neat way to get home from school together! what are some of your favourite games or activities to play outside with the kids right now? rebecca 3 min read february 26, 2015 1 reply blinded by science parenting for years i have been a customer of tag along toys. they are a blog advertiser (and very supportive of anything local), but i’m a customer because patti and her team excel in so many places. their customer service is amazing and what they offer is unique, great quality and diverse, especially the arts and crafts and science sections. i recently joined patti taggart, owner of tag along toys, at her bank street store to chat about her science offerings. many items on those shelves have made their way into my home in the past or have been selected as gifts for others. she told me that she was expending the science section for both stores and that the response from customers has been fantastic. this doesn’t surprise me! science is appealing to almost every kid, no matter their age or gender. parents like the creativity that’s involved (we are always trying to find new ways to avoid too much screen time, aren’t we?) and the price points are very reasonable. these science kits often make perfect birthday gifts. many of the sets are under $25. here are a five science products that caught my eye when i was in the store. what’s not pictured are all the smaller, mini kits that you can buy for loot bags, birthday gift add-ons and more. sometimes, you only need a few small kits to keep the kids busy over march break or on a pd day!: 1- chemistry sets both of my kids have little lab coats that they put on when they are ready to ‘do science’. they also have a mini chemistry set with test tubes and beakers. i often give them coloured water to play with in them, but most starter sets come with ideas and projects for kids to do. 2- electronic playground this set gives a hands-on approach to electricity and circuitry to your kids in a safe way. let their curiosity about how the remote control or the light switch works be put to good use with this set. 3- a metal detector seriously. wouldn’t that be cool at the park or beach? this remote control metal detector looks like way too much fun, plus, you can sneak in some science learning along the way! 4- green science there are a variety of different green science kits in store, but they teach kids not only about science, but about eco-technology and energy. plus, they are at the perfect birthday gift price point if you are looking for something for classmates. 5– snap circuits we have boxes of these in the house already. my son also attended a code for kids workshop about them and he loves being able to put them together himself and see the results. in fact, below, in his youtube debut, he’s done a video about snap circuits for the blog! in it, he builds two simple projects and chats about why he likes them. what’s new with snap circuits is the the very cool rover. kids can build a remote control vehicle that moves! how exciting would that be? science is an exciting area for kids. they get to be hands on and learn how the world around them works. while imagination and make believe at any age is important, science and facts can be equally compelling. what kind of science are your kids into right now? rebecca 0 min read january 3, 2013 2 replies sale! 30% off tag along toys, up to 40% off elm hill kids kids my two favourite children’s stores in ottawa are having a huge winter sale! tag along toys has their entire store on sale for 30% off. now’s a great time to stock up for birthday gifts and special extras (plus, check to see if there are any sleds left to enjoy in the snow!) in addition, elm hill kids has select children’s clothing, shoes and accessories on sale for up to 40% off!! great time to get some spring shoes, fancy dresses for upcoming events or accessories like hair clips, ties and hats! happy shopping! disclosure: elm hill kids and tag along toys are advertisers of bit of momsense but i wanted to share their awesome sale with my readers! support local! rebecca 1 min read december 11, 2012 33 replies giveaway! win three great gifts from tag along toys kids ottawa, i have another fabulous giveaway for you! our awesome advertiser (and frankly, the place where i bought a lot of my christmas presents this year) tag along toys is offering one lucky ottawa-area reader the chance to win all three of these toys/gifts below. you can use them for your own children or divide them up among those on your list. what can you win? 1- the cloud b twilight turtle (i have this, loved it when the kids were little) 2- kiss natural lip balm kit (have this too! it was featured on my 2012 holiday gift guide too!) 3- perplexus twist (this was on my gift guide too!!) how to win: simply comment below and tell me what you love most about shopping locally. i have to say that i have done most of my shopping at local shops this year, with some big box/online ordering sprinkled in for some items. i love the feel of a smaller shop and i find the experience to be far more pleasant. plus, i like being able to support local small businesses! that’s it! i’ll randomly draw one eligible entry on friday, december 14 at 9 pm est. giveaway open to ottawa area residents. prize must be picked up at tag along toys. winner will be emailed on saturday, december 15. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.