start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search take the productivity test and find your flaws 0shares in this test you will be evaluated in multiple areas such as working with focus, defining long term goals, planning your day, punctuality, learning from mistakes, tracking your thoughts and more. the most important part of this test is to be honest with your answers. based on your answers, you will be see an analysis of areas where you could improve along with the things to do. your intention here should not be get a high score by giving fake answers but to realize where you stand, improve and grow. how well do you know what do you want to achieve in the long term? i clearly know my long term goal along with a fair timeline to achieve it i have no idea what my long term goal is i have some idea on what my long term goal is i have thought of multiple options as my possible long term goals how does the start of your day go by? i spend my morning checking emails, important messages before heading to work i try spending some time by myself in the morning which i utilize for planning, exercise etc checking my phone, getting ready, finishing household chores and other activities before rushing to work i spend my morning time calming my mind or reading or planning my day or working on my passion and so on. if your friend and you decide to meet at 11 am, what time do you show up? at 11 am or earlier around 11:30 am because my friends will be late too by 11:15 because a little delay with friends is ok based on the situation because friends can wait. mostly end up reaching after 12 pm how do you approach your regular working day? i work on items from my todo list. i also ensure i work on a few tasks at least which help my long term goals. i just take the day as it comes working on the tasks that are urgent or those which are approaching the deadlines. i try to work as per my todo list sometimes. however, i work on some random tasks too because my todo list is large and not easy to manage. i have a well maintained to do list. i try to cross off as many tasks as possible from my todo list. where is your smartphone while working? my phone is with me but all my messages and other notifications from apps are turned off my phone is with me all the time because i have to check my calls and texts my phone will not ring or buzz from calls or text messages while i am doing focused work my phone is away from me or on do not disturb mode. only calls are allowed. how often do you check your smartphone at work? everytime i get a notification or whenever i feel like i check it every 15 min for a minute. it is like a mini break that i take to relax my mind. i check it every 30 min to 1 hour to check if i missed any texts or news from instagram/facebook/whatsapp i check it after a span of 2 hours or more because i am least bothered about my phone when i am at work when you make a mistake how do you prevent yourself from committing it again? i will remember this mistake. by memory i know i will not committ the same mistake again. i keep track of my mistakes by noting them down i keep track of my mistakes, analyze what was the right thing to do and how to prevent it in the future. this mistake happened for xyz reason. i will not repeat it. how much time in a day do you spend thinking and planning on how to make progress towards your long term goals? i spend over 30 min a day separately only for thinking what could i do better and how can i work towards my long term goals i spend 15-30 min a day separately only for thinking what could i do better and how can i work towards my long term goals i dont really have any long term goal so i do not need to plan i have a long to do list so i don’t really need to think on a daily basis how much time in a day do you spend working on your long goals? my work keeps me busy. i usually do not get any spare time. i want to work on my long term goals but i get no time for it. i spend 1-2 hours a day explicitly working on my long term goals. i spend 2 or more hours a day working towards my long term goals. i dont really have any long term goal so i dont have to spend any time when something goes wrong what do you do? i gather people, brainstorm and analyze to find the corrective action i explain why it happened due to the situation or someone else being responsible for it i explain why things went wrong without getting into any names i analyze with people and also do a self introspection on what i could have done better even if the situation was out of my control how do you track a thought/idea/task that comes to your mind? i do not get any important thoughts/ideas/tasks in my head i have a great memory. i remember my thoughts very well if i am at my workdesk i note it down. if not, i try to keep it in memory i keep track of all my important thoughts/ideas on my phone/notebook irrespective of where i am in the past 3 months, have you learnt anything new? my job teaches me new things everyday i spend over 1 hour everyday learning, reading and improving my skills the last learning i did was in college i spend 30-60 min a day just to learn and improve my skills your name your email my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 0shares join the discussion cancel reply comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?