skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: tales from the field a $6,500 penalty from eva thanks to complex fare rules (tales from the field) a $6,500 penalty from eva thanks to complex fare rules (tales from the field) in my recent post talking about delta’s move to reconsider change fees, i alluded to one issue we were having with eva air here at cranky concierge. several of you chimed in wanting to hear about it, so here we go. get ready to learn how a small mistake … cf on feb 3, 2020 jan 28, 2020 know your fare rules, because the airlines don’t (tales from the field) know your fare rules, because the airlines don’t (tales from the field) when you buy a ticket, it’s not always easy to find out all the fare rules that apply, but it’s really important you do. we had a cranky concierge client recently who had an emergency, and air canada didn’t want to honor its own rules. worse than that, not one … cf on sep 14, 2016 sep 15, 2016 it’s the little things that count (tales from the field) it’s the little things that count (tales from the field) it’s pretty rare that a post in this series ends up being a happy, feel-good story and i thought it was time to change that. so cozy up by the fire with a warm cup of cocoa on this christmas eve while i tell you a tale about an unhappy … cf on dec 20, 2015 dec 24, 2015 if you’re going to charge for seat assignments, lufthansa, you better well honor them (tales from the field) if you’re going to charge for seat assignments, lufthansa, you better well honor them (tales from the field) lufthansa is probably the most hated airline in the travel agent world these days for a variety of reasons. it just started charging a surcharge for those who book through travel agent systems, first of all. but it’s also the random and never-ending strikes that have shaken confidence. i, however, … cf on sep 17, 2015 sep 17, 2015 a day in the life of cranky concierge during a major storm (tales from the field) a day in the life of cranky concierge during a major storm (tales from the field) if you were traveling in the eastern half of the country last week, you know what a mess it was. the weather caused problems from dallas all the way to new york. in particular, thursday was a real mess. it was one of our busiest days at cranky concierge thanks … cf on mar 11, 2015 mar 12, 2015 british airways customer service isn’t good, but when partners are involved, it gets even worse (tales from the field) british airways customer service isn’t good, but when partners are involved, it gets even worse (tales from the field) this is not the first time that i’ve ranted about british airways’ customer service skills (or lack thereof), and it certainly won’t be the last. for an airline that i think does a good job in the air, it’s amazing that it does such a terrible job on the … cf on oct 30, 2014 nov 4, 2014 united is doing a better job of reaccommodating schedule changes (tales from the field) united is doing a better job of reaccommodating schedule changes (tales from the field) i have a very strange tales from the field post this week. what’s so odd about it? it doesn’t involve me fighting an airline. in fact, this is a positive post about united. seriously. i’ve already ranted about the annoying increase in the number of schedule changes airlines inflict upon … cf on oct 6, 2014 oct 7, 2014 this, united, is why people hate airlines (tales from the field) this, united, is why people hate airlines (tales from the field) it’s time for another cranky concierge client story, and this one is ugly. it’s a long read, so let me sum it up for you. we had clients going from mumbai to toronto. the first flight was canceled, then they were involuntarily bumped twice and given no compensation. united customer … cf on jul 2, 2014 jul 3, 2014 when a stop in sub-zero minneapolis seems like a great idea (tales from the field) when a stop in sub-zero minneapolis seems like a great idea (tales from the field) we all know how terrible the weather was to start the year, and of course, that meant an incredibly busy time for cranky concierge. we were able to help a lot of people get home earlier than they could have done on their own, and that made for some … cf on jan 19, 2014 jan 16, 2014 to change or not to change? (tales from the field) to change or not to change? (tales from the field) we were faced with quite the dilemma this week at cranky concierge when we had a client flying southwest who was looking at a possible missed connection. this required us to make a judgment call and hope that it worked out right. it’s puzzles like these that i find most … cf on oct 23, 2013 oct 24, 2013 a sincere apology to united airlines (it’s your fault, us airways) a sincere apology to united airlines (it’s your fault, us airways) remember my post on wednesday about united’s reservation system not being very friendly? well there were some people at united who were very concerned that this could be an unknown error and they wanted to get to the bottom of it so it didn’t happen again. after doing some … cf on sep 27, 2013 the skies may be friendly, but united’s reservation system is not (tales from the field) the skies may be friendly, but united’s reservation system is not (tales from the field) [update 9/27 @ 1049a: after much research, it turns out the problem lies with us airways not united. i posted an apology to united here.] i decided to put up a special wednesday post this week, because it dove-tailed so well with yesterday’s post about united resurrecting the … cf on jan 19, 2014 sep 25, 2013 posts navigation page 1 page 2 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!