wednesday :: march 25, 2020 senate passes "cares" financial help bill by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on wed mar 25, 2020 at 10:42:19 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet update: the amendment is denied. now they are voting on the main bill. how tone deaf are these senators? no 6 feet clearance for them. the "cares" bill passes with no "nay" votes. here is the 619 page bill as of this afternoon. i've been reading it for the last several hours (while listening to the speeches). i'm not sure if there are any changes to what they are voting on. update: all the speeches for the past few hours have been delivered to an empty room. there are only two senators in the room during voting on the amendment. i guess they all phoned in their votes. why bother to have a public vote if you don't have sound for the senator's voices saying yes or no? all you can hear is a woman calling out the names and then she says how they voted. towards the end of the vote on the amendment, more senators begin straggling in. [more...] (12 comments, 301 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments tuesday :: march 24, 2020 tuesday open thread: down for the count by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on tue mar 24, 2020 at 01:15:13 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet denver goes on home stay (aka sheltering in place) this afternoon. the only places we can go are the grocery store, drug store, pharmacy and for medical treatment and the like. it's kind of like home detention without the electronic monitoring, but not quite as strict as home incarceration. who else here is stuck at home? what are you doing to pass the time? i think we're going to be at home for a long time. last night, the late late show with james corden repeated his first show from four years ago. if they are planning on going through seasons 1 to 4 in order, that's a few hundred or more shows. this is an open thread, all topics welcome. (167 comments, 127 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments monday :: march 23, 2020 colorado ends the death penalty, commutes sentences to life by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on mon mar 23, 2020 at 05:55:42 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet thank you governor jared polis! the death penalty has been officially abolished in colorado. today governor polis signed the bill passed by the colorado legislature last month ending the death penalty. while the bill did not cover the three inmates on death row in colorado, gov. polis commuted their sentences today to life without parole. colorado is the 22nd state to abolish the death penalty. (4 comments) permalink :: comments the republican's faux assistance bill, dems must oppose by jeralyn, section economy posted on mon mar 23, 2020 at 07:27:00 am est tags: coronavirus (all tags) share this: digg! tweet here's a summary of what is in the republican's $2 trillion spending bill to reboot the economy. it's a bailout of big industry and business and a pittance for individuals. it's also money that mostly has to be repaid. with what? donald trump's belief that when this is over our economy will "skyrocket" and the companies on the receiving end will be able to repay these humongous loans? [more...] (11 comments, 1164 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments sunday :: march 22, 2020 harvey weinstein transferred, contracts coronavirus and is put in isolation by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on sun mar 22, 2020 at 09:33:38 pm est tags: harvey weinstein (all tags) share this: digg! tweet four days ago, on march 18, harvey weinstein was transferred to a reception facility at the wende prison complex in erie county, new york. reception facilities are intake facilities where a new inmate undergoes diagnostic testing and observation and then the staff decides which prison he should be sent to to serve his sentence. wende also has a maximum security prison. apparently, upon arrival he and another new transferee tested positive for the coronavirus and were put in isolation in the medical unit at wende's maximum security prison. wende has a long history as a prison, going back to the 1920's. it is now comprised of 49 buildings on 15 acres. it has a regional medical unit (rmu) at the maximum security prison that at least on paper, provides comprehensive care. [more...] (718 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments white house coronavirus briefing: "we have to save our big companies" by jeralyn, section economy posted on sun mar 22, 2020 at 04:34:56 pm est tags: coronavirus (all tags) share this: digg! tweet donald trump's coronavirus task force is scheduled to speak to the nation in a few minutes. you can watch live online here. the procedural vote on the republican's trillion dollar [corporate] aid bill has been delayed. et. it sounds like the deal has fallen apart, and nancy pelosi said today the dems will introduce their own bill. i hope everyone reading this is feeling okay. update: trump was abysmal in his delivery. he read from his speech, not a teleprompter, which it sounded like he hadn't even read before taking the podium. he rambled on about something having to do with rescuing a woman who was "horribly treated" and "terribly abused" somewhere and we needed honduras' government's approval to "get her out of there". (maybe that was the reason the presser started an hour late? this must be her.) [more...] (48 comments, 620 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments thursday :: march 19, 2020 depression, not recession is looming by jeralyn, section economy posted on thu mar 19, 2020 at 02:55:55 pm est tags: coronavirus (all tags) share this: digg! tweet i think america will recover from the coronavirus much faster than the economic calamity that is befalling the country. i think we passed recession months ago and are now headed into a 1920's style depression. for more technical explanations, see axios here . i don't know how the economy bounces back after this. this is not like fighting a world war -- it seems like americans will soon be fighting a domestic economic battle, for food, shelter and other basics of life. [more...] (135 comments, 687 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments sunday :: march 15, 2020 sanders and biden debate tonight by jeralyn, section elections 2020 posted on sun mar 15, 2020 at 07:18:30 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet i'm not sure what the point is of tonight's "debate" given the modifications and that everyone believes biden has this sewn up. calls for bernie to suspend his campaign are premature. he's helping democrats by staying in. he obviously knows the math as well as anyone. and that despite his army of followers, they aren't turning out to vote. that will be a problem for democrats in november. by staying in, bernie can try to keep his fans energized and encourage them to turn out and vote. [more...] (94 comments, 479 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments coronavirus numbers in colorado by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on sun mar 15, 2020 at 05:04:53 pm est tags: coronavirus (all tags) share this: digg! tweet now that testing is available in colorado (albeit limited and involving long waits), the colorado department of public health is reporting results online with updates every five minutes. denver and eagle county (vail) each have 24 cases. total for colorado as of today, march 15, 2020: 131. one elderly woman at increased risk due to a history of pulmonary issues has died in el paso county (colorado springs). on march 13, 2020 there were 5 new cases. on march 14, 2020 there were 24 new cases. today, there are 30 new cases confirmed by testing. here is a realtime updated map and infographic by the colorado department of health and public safety. [more...] (56 comments, 233 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments white house sunday presser on coronavirus by jeralyn, section trump administration posted on sun mar 15, 2020 at 04:14:41 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet the white house is holding a press conference today on the coronavirus. if you are online now, you can watch it live here. trump begins with what he calls great news and he's very happy, the federal reserve has lowered the treasury rate to 0. he wants to thank google because they substantiated what he said on friday (it was fake news that google denied it.) (56 comments, 271 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments coronavirus explainers by jeralyn, section trump administration posted on sun mar 15, 2020 at 04:12:49 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet this is quite an explanatory multi-media graphic from the south china post on the beginning and evolution of the coronavirus. it is updated daily. also interesting, again from the south china post, is an article on the search for "patient zero" who authorities now believe contracted the disease on november 17, 2019 (rather than december as previously believed). according to the government data seen by the post, a 55 year-old from hubei province could have been the first person to have contracted covid-19 on november 17. ...while the government records have not been released to the public, they provide valuable clues about how the disease spread in its early days and the speed of its transmission, as well as how many confirmed cases beijing has recorded. permalink :: comments saturday :: march 14, 2020 pandemic grows, trump tests negative by jeralyn, section trump administration posted on sat mar 14, 2020 at 05:42:14 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet donald trump says he did not contribute to the coronavirus pandemic by removing the office created to deal with such things that had been established under obama. to the suprise of no one, the coronavirus is spreading around the globe. now that three people donald trump shook hands with or was otherwise close to at mar-a-lago have tested positive, trump changed course (yet again) and announced he has been tested. (update: his results were negative according to his personal white house physician, sean p. conley, reports his tests were negative. (this is after yesterday when he said trump didn't need to get tested.) spain and france have announced partial shutdowns. france has ordered all restaurants, bars, and shops closed (except grocery stores). here is how it has been growing. [more...] (60 comments, 495 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments monday :: march 09, 2020 server issues done, new open thread by jeralyn, section blog related posted on mon mar 09, 2020 at 05:19:39 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet the company that physically hosts talkleft's server is in the process of moving its servers a short distance from where they are presently located. our server was not scheduled to be moved until midnight tonight, but apparently someone pulled the wrong plug somewhere when moving another server last night, and talkleft was down for several hours last night and this morning. obviously, we are back up now, but we are still on schedule to be moved tonight around midnight, and we should be down for only 90 minutes or so (n a perfect world). i apologize for any inconvenience to those of you who clicked this morning and got no response -- i only realized it around 9:00 am, by which time colin, our webmaster, was already on it and we went back up soon after. this is now an open thread, all topics welcome. (203 comments) permalink :: comments nyse suspended trading after stocks tank: trump clueless? by jeralyn, section economy posted on mon mar 09, 2020 at 04:50:05 pm est tags: coronavirus (all tags) share this: digg! tweet an automatic circuit tripper was triggered this morning when the nyse opened due to the worst drop in the dow jones average since the financial crisis of october, 2008 (and before that, 9/11): the dow jones industrial average tanked 1,247 points — 4.8% — on pace for its worst day since december 2008, while the s&p 500 plunged 4.9%. the massive sell-off triggered a key market circuit breaker minutes after the opening bell. trading was halted for 15 minutes until reopening at 9:49 a.m. et. at one point in morning trading, the 30-stock dow dropped 2,046 points and the s&p 500 cratered 7.4%. this is the first time the trigger was activated since 1997. as for why the dow freaked out, it's fears over the oil trade deal and the coronavirus.[more...] (11 comments, 1132 words in story) there's more :: permalink :: comments thursday :: march 05, 2020 elizabeth warren drops out by jeralyn, section colorado news posted on thu mar 05, 2020 at 12:51:36 pm est tags: (all tags) share this: digg! tweet it's down to a two man race for the democratic nomination -- elizabeth warren has suspended her campaign, she didn't make an endorsement but said there's no rush to do so. so after all the hub-bub with a diverse field of 20, we are down to two white almost-octogenarians. what a disappointment. (119 comments) permalink :: comments next 15 >> entries with recent comments [#] ga6thdem senate passes "cares" financial help bill posted on fri. at 04:19 pm [#] fishcamp tuesday open thread: down for the count posted on fri. at 04:05 pm [#] towanda coronavirus numbers in colorado posted on thu. at 03:02 pm [#] etsymart zimmerman: rachel jeantel finishes... posted on thu. at 03:55 am [#] ga6thdem the republican's faux assistance bill, dems... posted on wed. at 01:01 pm recommended diaries ♦how did we get here? part one of an examination foreword: this diary is the first in a series examining, inter alia, the political economy of the united states. much of by jeffinalabama (2 comments) ♦the banks are made of marble and banks want one thing: profits. it is easier to get a loan at a community bank or a credit union, by jeffinalabama (13 comments) ♦some weeks i ought to stay in bed... two weeks of fun and excitement. or maybe not. two weeks of fighting the system, and, while not having success, at by jeffinalabama (25 comments) ♦getting bad news... results are in. every portion of the prostate, lymph nodes around it, and possibly more spreading. looks like the aggressive type. by jeffinalabama (23 comments) recent diaries ♦honored to be here, and legalization of pot progress-hurdles by lfrieling (1 comments) ♦mr. president, the answer is 'no.' by jeffinalabama (3 comments) ♦"the town"-not what it's cracked up to be: by mplo (3 comments) ♦how i came to love west side story: by mplo (4 comments) more recent diaries older entries tuesday march 3rd ♦ super tuesday results (201 comments) monday march 2nd ♦ chris matthews retires from hardball, effective tonight (9 comments) ♦ amy drops, will support biden (51 comments) sunday march 1st ♦ pete b. drops out, amy k. cancels rally (44 comments) ♦ sunday night open thread (all topics) (68 comments) ♦ sunday night media open thread: non-primaries edition (36 comments) ♦ biden's sliver of a path forward (39 comments) saturday february 29th ♦ joe biden wins south carolina, who cares? (75 comments) tuesday february 25th ♦ south carolina democrat debate (200 comments) ♦ tuesday open thread (134 comments) older stories... sections colorado news elections 2016 elections 2012 economy reference docs trump administration afghanistan 2009 blog related civil liberties constitution corruption cases court decisions crime in the news crime policy death penalty terror detainees democratic national convention 2008 stored documents "el chapo" trial elections elections 2006 elections 2008 elections 2020 foreign affairs hillary clinton inmates and prisons innocence cases joe lieberman judiciary juvenile offenders law related legislation lewis libby trial coverage media military draft misconduct obama administration off topic older categories old categories other politics talkleft premium social justice terror trials valerie plame leak case war in iraq war on terror "the pump don't work 'cause the vandals took the handles" © 1965 bob dylan the online magazine with liberal coverage of crime-related political and injustice news menu home | about | rss e-mail | comment policy | dmca/ infringement notice policy contribute to talkleft other talkleft sites talkleft backup site marijuana laws talkleft forums (zimmerman) talkleft duke lacrosse forums talkleft premium search login make a new account existing users username: password: creator and principal author jeralyn e. merritt tl alumni armando llorens t. christopher kelly john wesley hall blog wires memeorandum daily fixes atrios/eschaton crooks and liars daily kos digby empty wheel how appealing instapundit talking points memo think progress blogs we like 5280 americablog balloon juice drug war rant grits for breakfast kevin drum (mojo ) lawyers, guns & money mahablog mother talkers political wire sideshow skippy suburban guerrilla law blogs above the law ann althouse discourse. net dui blog fourthamendment innocence project blog scotus blog sentencing law and policy simple justice snitching blog white collar crime blog media musts alternet common dreams huffington post media matters mother jones the nation salon watching america best of the other side just one minute pajamas media protein wisdom vodka pundit colorado blogs 5280 colorado independent colorado politics progress now think outside the cage washpark prophet westword:latest word talkleft recommends aclu common sense drug policy drug reform network the innocence project nacdl national immigration project norml so. ctr. human rights social justice amnesty international center const. rights human rights first human rights watch prison legal news awards 2003 koufax best single issue blog 2002 koufax best single issue blog site credits talkleft graphics by c.l., our man in hollywood (2006 - 2008) talkleft header graphic by monk powered by scoop legal all content copyright ©2002-2019. reprints only by permission from talkleft.com. nothing on this site should be construed as legal advice. talkleft does not give legal advice. talkleft is not responsible for and often disagrees with material posted in the comments section. read at your own risk. talkleft's dmca infringement notice policy