main office: +1(603)268-2564 email us: info@tanzania-expeditions.com home destinations serengeti ngorongoro crater tarangire lake manyara mt kilimanjaro mt meru lake natron lake eyasi mt ol doinyo lengai wildebeest migration tours & experiences tanzania safari lodging tanzania camping safari tanzania luxury safari climb kilimanjaro tours mt meru climbing zanzibar holidays tanzania cultural tourism tanzania cycling safari tanzania travel tips tanzania travel packing list tanzania visa plan my trip search for: explore timing is everything… we ensure you’re where you need to be …. see the legendary serengeti the most famous wildlife refuge in the world… discover the wild on a safari in tanzania a tanzania safari showcases nature at its rawest and most remarkable…. witness africa at it’s wildest it’s time to experience it for yourself on one of our tanzania safari… ngorongoro crater animal paradise the ngorongoro crater floor is an earthly paradise with about 30,000 animals…. welcome! let tanzania expeditions™ organize your safari in tanzania we are the tanzania safari tours specialists. we are wild about wildlife, excited about the natural world, and extremely proud to call tanzania our home. your trip of a lifetime deserves the very best planning. we attend to all of the details of your tanzania safari touring with professional care. you deserve to fulfill every desire on your safari bucket list. we offer a unique selection of itineraries that turn your dreams into realities. our main specialities are wildlife camping, lodging, and luxury safaris, climbing mt. kilimanjaro, treking mt. meru and oldoinyo lengai, zanzibar beach holidays, cultural tours, cycling adventure tours and so much more! authentic custom tanzania safari tours just for you tanzania safari specialists: as a local tanzania safari company, our in-depth knowledge of the wild helps you get closer to the action. traveling with local experts gives you an insider perspective on the famous destinations and seeks out tanzania’s secret gems. professional safari driver guides: on our tours, you will receive complete and focused attention by your professional guides, with the expert knowledge and skill required to make sure you have the trip of a lifetime. wildlife viewing maximized: all our tour itineraries are strategically designed on a monthly basis to take advantage of seasonal wildlife concentrations, and all safaris incorporate specific game drives to witness the great wildebeest migration and other major wildlife attractions. tanzania safari tours – top recommendations let us help you plan your trip relax and let us the passionate local expert organize your dream safari in tanzania. this is your vacation so it should be stress free! tanzania safari lodging 4 days tanzania lodging safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania camping safari 5 day tanzania camping safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania safari lodging 5 days tanzania lodging safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more climb kilimanjaro tours machame route 7 days rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania luxury safari 6 days tanzania luxury safari read more tanzania camping safari 7 day tanzania camping safari read more tanzania safari lodging 7 days tanzania lodging safari read more climb kilimanjaro tours lemosho route 7 days rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania safari lodging 6 days tanzania lodging safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania safari lodging 8 days tanzania lodging safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more zanzibar holidays best of zanzibar 6 days read more climb kilimanjaro tours rongai route 7 days rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania camping safari 6 day tanzania camping safari rated 5.00 out of 5 read more tanzania luxury safari 7 days tanzania luxury safari read more tanzania luxury safari 8 days tanzania luxury safari read more mt. meru climb 2 nights 3 days rated 5.00 out of 5 read more let us help you plan your trip why book your tanzania safari with us pay the right price our policy is that you don’t have to pay more to receive the best service! we believe that everyone has the right to get the best experience for their budget. booking tours direct with us means no agent fees or middleman. trusted sources reviews we are a top rated tanzania safari tours company in trusted travel sources like tripadvisor, fodor travel, lonely planet etc. it is vital to us that you have a memorable experience in tanzania. customer feedback is essential for our company to continue improving. customer service our office staff, certified mountain guides and safaris guides are always proud to share with you there in-depth acquired knowledge from years of experience. we strive to meet our clients needs and tailor our tours based on their preferences! support local economy we are a 100% a local tanzanian safari company. booking with us means all your $$$ goes towards supporting the local economy. we are proud to employ local and qualified staff to provide an outstanding experience to our clients! what our previous clients say about us overall rating: ★★★★★ based on 335 reviews “asante sana,tanzania expeditions!” june 28, 2017 ★★★★★ our party of four went on a 4-day safari with tanzania expeditions and we brought home a bounty of memories and two thousand pictures. after we walked through the airport doors of kjo, justin took care of everything we needed. our visits to lake manyara, the ngorongoro crater and the serengeti were particularly enjoyable because our guide derrick was knowledgeable and entertaining, and charles and his crew (danny, emmanuel and the chef) at kananga special tented camp made us feel extra special. our overnight stay at eileen’s tree inn was great, too ” read full tour review – ress bautista “a great experience” june 28, 2017 ★★★★★ a great tanzania safari. sammy our guide was fantastic. very knowledgeable with a keen eye for spotting things. his driving was excellent. we felt safe and secure at all times. we stayed in 3 different lodges that were fantastic. the arumeru river lodge, ngorongoro farm house and the rhino lodge as well as 2 nights in katikati tent lodge which was a great experience. the food was great in all lodges. we experienced some great national parks, the tarangire national park, serengeti national park and ngorongoro conservation area and got to see many of the animals up close.” read full tour review – steve5691 “meru climb & 7 day tanzania safari” june 27, 2017 ★★★★★ organising the trip via email was easy and justin was quick to respond and to make changes to the itinerary and he was there to meet us off our bus in arusha even without us calling him! climbing up mount meru was an amazing experience and we had to most incredible views over the crater and mount kilimanjaro. we were in a small group for most of the time lead by a ranger but on day 3 when we climbed to the summit our guides were really great and allowed us to go up at our own pace with plenty of encouragement and even lending us their gloves! ” read full tour review – jen p “awesome 2-day safari” june 16, 2017 ★★★★★ this was everything my friends and i could have asked for in a 2-day safari. first of all, justin was absolutely terrific in keeping in touch with us – even though we had limited internet and contact information. he came to where we were staying, all the way outside the city, to collect our money. he also helped us secure accommodations ” read full tour review – lbienz “wonderful safari vacation” june 14, 2017 ★★★★★ our party of four went on a 4-day safari with tanzania expeditions and we brought home a bounty of memories and two thousand pictures. after we walked through the airport doors of kjo, justin took care of everything we needed. our visits to lake manyara, the ngorongoro crater and the serengeti were particularly enjoyable because our guide derrick was knowledgeable..” read full tour review – jane vanelli “tanzania safari in april 2017” june 13, 2017 ★★★★★ my wife and i took a seven day safari with tanzania expeditions towards the end of april 2017. we travel quite extensively. that’s said not to boast, but to give context that we have experienced many different sights and tours around the world. our experience with justin (owner) and tanzania expeditions was truly phenomenal. justin was extremely patient and responsive during the process of setting up the ideal, customized itinerary for the two of us. we were able to spend time in tarangire, lake manyara, serengeti and ngorongoro crater. our guide, emmanuel, is definitely one to request if you do go on a safari with te” read full tour review – david hedberg “rongai route/safari” june 11, 2017 ★★★★★ we booked tanzania expeditions for our 7 day hike up kilimanjaro and our 3 day safari. before our arrival, the staff was very quick to answer any and all questions. we would write emails with many questions and all of them were answered fully. we chose the rongai route for our hike as we were going during rainy season and it supposedly rains less on that route. we were met at the airport and taken to our hotel (planet lodge) where we had a briefing on what to expect during our hike. we also met our guide at this time. the next day we started our hike! our guides, tumaini, frank, and ezekiel, ” read full tour review – jackie becker “stunning camping safari” june 11, 2017 ★★★★★ together with my son we booked a 6 day camping safari with tanzania expeditions. booking was easy; justin mtui replied to our questions within the hour. maybe two. everything was well arranged, our guide and driver emanuel did his utmost best to show us all spectacular wild life including the rare black rhinos in the ngorongoro crater. we saw all animals we dreamt of and the sceneries in the parcs were awesome.” read full tour review – lourens sander mount kilimanjaro climbing review june 6, 2017 ★★★★★ i climbed mount kilimanjaro in mid-february 2017. it had been my dream to do the climb for two years. i was living in africa and was getting ready to move to europe. i was running out of time. i was going to climb with some colleagues using tanzania expeditions but had a conflict, so i had to cancel. then i contacted justin, the owner of tanzania expeditions and told him i had very little time to do it. i asked him if i could join a group. there was a small group i could join, so i did. we climbed using the machame route. read full tour review – daniel need assistance ? email us now : info@tanzania-expeditions.com helpful links about us browse tours tanzania travel tips tanzania travel packing list tanzania visa information payment form tanzania travel blog contact tanzania tours category climb kilimanjaro tours safari accommodation tanzania camping safari tanzania cultural tourism tanzania cycling safari tanzania luxury safari tanzania safari lodging uncategorized zanzibar holidays recent posts (no title) useful swahili words & phrases you need to learn kilimajaro climb and tanzania safari review kilimanjaro climbing review how to choose a good tanzania safari company search for: © 2020 all rights reserved. developed by tanzania expeditions