content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip content marketing framework: target audience the only way we can maintain long-term success is to continually engage people. as with your content marketing plan, the evaluation of your different audiences (both inside and outside your organization) should occur regularly along your content marketing journey. create your personas one of the tenets of content marketing is that you need to understand — and write specifically — for your audience. to help you do this, it’s essential to create your personas: an in-depth look at how to create and use b2b buyer personas with ardath albee developing a buyer persona? avoid these 4 common mistakes put the person back in content marketing personas: 10 easy steps 7 ways to research your buyer for content marketing how do your buyers consume content? ask these 20 questions step-by-step templates for mapping your b2b content 4 questions answered about buyer personas remember your influencers you may think buyer persona = customer, but there are other influencers you need to consider as well. this short video featuring amanda maksymiw, leslie reiser, and waynette tubbs reminds us that you need to have a plan for reaching industry thought leaders, those within your organization and customers. here are some other informative posts on influencer marketing: how to incorporate influencers into content marketing win at content marketing by building your influencer community for influential content marketing, go beyond your brand fans how influencers have ignited ibm’s content marketing how a new “influencer” app could be your most powerful content marketing weapon content marketing strategy: how to engage influencers in your industry want to bring all of this together? a content segmentation grid helps you build a high-level view of your different audiences, what content you have that meets their needs, and where your gaps are after your personas have been developed. use this as a way to understand not only what you’ve developed so far, but where you’ll need to spend the most time as you begin to put your content marketing plans into action. audience is the second step in building a successful content marketing strategy. download our white paper, the cmi content marketing framework: 7 building blocks to success, for an overview of the process, or learn about the other steps with our how-to guides on the right-hand side of the page. connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree