pinch of yum about recipes shop tasty food photography ebook be proud of your food photos over 9,500 people have taken their food photography to the next level using tasty food photography. buy it now $29 secure checkout hi, my name is lindsay. a few years ago i started writing a food blog called pinch of yum as a hobby for my evenings and weekends. as an amateur cook and photographer, i had a lot to learn. i was using a dslr camera, but i had no idea how to use it. my blog readers consisted of my mom and a handful of co-workers. i still remember how thrilled i was the first time i had 50 visitors on my site in one day. as time went on, i started to get more comfortable with the using the manual settings on our dslr. i also learned some simple editing tricks in photoshop and lightroom. my photos were starting to improve which fueled my desire to keep learning. before & after chicken tamale pie i eventually had my first photo accepted to tastespotting.com, and i was beside myself with excitement about being published and about the number of visitors that it brought to my blog. as my photos continued to get better, i saw an immense increase in my blog readership. my page views went from 50 a day to 5,000 a day, and now, three years later, 70,000 a day. pinch of yum traffic over time this has led to lots of opportunities for monetizing and growing my blog. over the last few years as my photography has improved, i’ve also had the chance to work as a freelance food photographer and i’ve been contacted by web magazines, e-newsletters, and book publishers. there’s no doubt in my mind that these opportunities were presented to me because of my dramatically improved food photography. photography is an incredible tool that can have a profound impact on the life of your blog or website. i’ve learned a lot of things – both big and small – in the last few years, and this book is my way of sharing all that with you. my hope is that these tips and tricks will be practical, easy to read, and ultimately help you take food photos that make people say, “i am dying to eat that right now!” you can read it on any device buy it now $29 secure checkout example pages video tutorials over 30 practical video tutorials for those times when you just need to see it and not read it! here's an example: what people are saying i recently started my own food blog, and your book has been invaluable. i am a total beginner when it comes to photography, and your book explains everything beautifully. i especially love the video tutorials. thanks, lindsay! natasha cakemerchant.com lindsay’s book has saved my blogging life! she covers everything and she breaks it down so even beginners can understand. if you are a blogger, you should already know that the photography on your blog is what draws people in and captures them. read this and your blog will blow up with an increased readership, comments, blog visits, and opportunities will begin to fall into your lap. that’s what has happened with me. i’m so thankful for reading this book and using is as a guide! thank you so much lindsay! sally sallysbakingaddiction.com i wrote you about a month ago thanking you for your clear and concise ebook on photography. well, i have an update–after following your advice, my photos are now beginning to be accepted to these “food porn” sites. this would not have been possible without your wonderful ebook. for years i thought i was the worst photographer ever. now i see i’m not all that bad…just needed a little help in the right direction. judy bakeatmidnite.com i just had to send you a big thank you. after reading your ebook, i’m inspired. i had purchased [a different food photography book], but after reading it i only really got everything half way. i took notes even. after reading your book, i get it. you make food photography approachable and i don’t feel so overwhelmed by the camera settings (i’m a phone camera girl. i make it work). heck, i even got the guts to submit a photo to foodgawker and it got approved! thank you for making my whole week and giving me a new goal for myself and my blog. julie whitelightsonwednesday.com i just wanted to say – i love the blog and i saw a link to your ebook on learnfoodphotography.com, so i purchased it. i have to say – its really good. the practicality is awesome. steve smophoto.com i just wanted to say thank you so much! i bought your ebook on food photography and it was just what i needed as a total beginner. i have a food company here in australia that makes healthy real food products to help make choosing the healthy option easier for people and i wanted to start adding some grain free recipes to our website and facebook page. i have literally done 4 shoots and i am in love with it! your info was so clear and concise. i love your site, your recipes and your photos! jo theluminouskitchen.com love the book! bought it yesterday and have only had time to go through the photo editing section. i edited one of my old blog photos that had been denied from tastespotting and now it just got accepted! so excited! can’t wait to read the rest this weekend! sarah, sarah domesticated-engineer.com i’ve only had tasty food photography for a few days, but i really feel like i’ve learned more with this book than with any other photography book. when i read photography books in the past, i always became overwhelmed with technical details, which is not an issue here as it’s written in a conversational style that makes it understandable and enjoyable for everyone of any experience level. after trying out the editing tips and seeing how simple they are along with the drastic effect they can have on a picture, i was appalled at what i had previously thought looked good. i wish this book had been around before starting my own food blog! it would have saved me countless hours. i really can’t recommend it enough! erin texanerin.com it's time to level up your photo skills every month over 200 people are downloading tasty food photography and learning to take better food photos. buy it now $29 secure checkout thank you thanks for taking the time to check out tasty food photography! whether you’re someone who just reads the posts, someone who comments and emails, or someone who buys the book, i am so appreciative of your involvement in pinch of yum! thank you for making the process of food blogging an engaging and rewarding adventure. copyright © 2020 • back to top • contact • privacy policy x pinch of yum a food blog with simple, tasty, and (mostly) healthy recipes. follow on pinterest