menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies taurus taurus 5 things you have to know before dating a taurus kristin michelle elizabeth 7 undeniable signs that you’re absolutely a true taurus chelsea blake 11 things you need to know before you date a taurus chrissy stockton everything you need to know about the taurus in your life january nelson 7 reasons why everyone needs a friend who’s a taurus chrissy stockton so you want to date a taurus? here’s some brutal truths about dating one caithlin pena how to date a taurus almie rose latest taurus articles this is what each zodiac sign can expect from the full moon in taurus a.t. nunez “ there are still over three weeks left until mercury’s influence (including the post shadow) is over, so expect lots of surprises but the big storm is essentially over. here is every way romantic taurus in venus will affect each zodiac sign cleopatra jade “ what do you genuinely need to be comfortable? how taurus season is going to impact each zodiac sign january nelson “ libra: during taurus season, you’re going to be persistent. you’re not going to give up on what you want. you’re going to keep chasing it until it’s yours. the most compatible signs for a virgo, based on what i’ve learned while being with them kelly peacock “ from what i’ve experienced, virgos seem to get along best with four specific signs, depending on a romantic relationship or a deep friendship. new years resolutions for your zodiac element kelly peacock “ remember: you’re growing. let it happen. 6 little things you need to understand about a taurus/virgo relationship kelly peacock “ a virgo is an anxious, sensitive, and (sometimes) needy person. so be it. the truth about loving a taurus kelly peacock “ when you love a taurus, you will realize that they just want to love and be loved. 7 huge changes you can expect while uranus is in taurus melanie campbell “ a personal awakening. what it means to love a taurus sophie wrenfield “ when you love a taurus, you truly learn that ‘home’ can be found in another person. don’t fall in love with a taurus kirsten corley “ don’t fall in love with a taurus unless you are the type who can understand someone’s bark is worse than their bite. someone who does mean well. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.