toggle navigation about our team our mission our history advisory council research research papers tax briefing room the single income tax the spending plan campaign grassroots media campaigns events blog contact donate media enquiries (24hr): 07795 084 113 × take the first step to axe the tv tax. click here to help us decriminalise the bbc licence fee. taxpayers' alliance statement on coronavirus 'axe the tax' campaign to scrap the bbc licence fee we fight to reform taxes and public services, to cut waste and speak up for british taxpayers we organise campaigns all across the county join the fight to lower taxes and end wasteful government spending town hall rich list 2019 we want a pro-enterprise country with lower, simpler taxes funding better public services join the fight for lower taxes click here to receive our updates taxpayers’ alliance sets out coronavirus response policy recommendations for immediate release today, the taxpayers' alliance lays out three bold new policies to build on the extraordinary but justifable government response to the coronavirus.in a statement from our... bbc right to delay licence fee for over 75s, says taxpayers’ alliance for immediate release responding to the announcement that the bbc will delay the abolition of free licence fees for the over 75s, john o'connell, chief executive of the taxpayers'... see all press releases research briefing note: responding to covid-19 in light of the coronavirus (covid-19) outbreak, there has been massive government intervention undertaken to tackle the public health emergency and prevent the economy from collapsing. the measures which have... click here to read more research war on waste: civil service newspapers introduction it is not surprising that government departments have subscriptions to most national newspapers. these subscriptions are one way in which civil servants are alert to public views and opinions.... click here to read more research taxpayer funded lobbying and political campaigning 2020 the uk has a wealth of organisations operating in civil society. many of these, like the taxpayers’ alliance and greenpeace, survive with no taxpayers’ money, only existing thanks to generous... click here to read more see all research blog taxation infringes on liberty in the first of a series of thought pieces considering the philosophical basis of political concepts, grassroots assistant kieran neild questions whether a large tax burden can go hand in... click here to read more blog taxpayers' alliance statement on coronavirus in light of the coronavirus (covid-19) outbreak, we have been asked how the taxpayers’ alliance responds to the massive government intervention undertaken to tackle the public health emergency and prevent... click here to read more blog ir35: a change contractors can't afford by harry fone, grassroots campaign manager a fortnight ago, in light of the coronavirus crisis, chancellor rishi sunak postponed this year’s planned ir35 changes by 12 months. ir35 is designed... click here to read more see all blog posts about the taxpayers’ alliance we explain the benefits of a low tax economy and give taxpayers a voice in the corridors of power the taxpayers’ alliance (tpa) was launched by matthew elliott and andrew allum in early 2004 to speak for ordinary taxpayers fed up with government waste, increasing taxation, and a lack of transparency in all levels of government. no party was standing up for taxpayers and nearly all politicians were committed to bigger government, higher spending and secretive deals behind closed doors. the tpa sought to challenge this status quo. the united states, germany, france and italy all had groups dedicated to defending taxpayers against new taxes, exposing waste and putting forward the case for spending restraint. the tpa was set up to ensure that british taxpayers were no longer ignored by politicians. click here to read more copyright taxpayers' alliance. some rights reserved. jobs privacy notice funding powered by nationbuilder this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience. more info. okay