got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! home › taylor swift › taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! ha! it seems like a moment of vindication for taylor swift against kanye west, kim kardashian west, and all of her petty haters. related: taylor calls kanye two-faced on monday, the singer/songwriter broke her silence on this weekend’s jaw-dropping news — leaked footage of the full story, er, conversation that fueled her 2016 controversy with kimye over those infamous famous lyrics. posting to insta stories, she wrote: “instead of answering those who are asking how i feel about the video footage that leaked, proving that i was telling the truth the whole time about *that call* (you know, the one that was illegally recorded, that somebody edited and manipulated in order to frame me and put me, my family and fans through hell for 4 years)…swipe up to see what really matters. the world health organization and feeding america are some of the organizations i’ve been donating to. if you have the ability to, please join me in donating during this crisis.” now that’s how you have the last word!! followers were directed to organizations in need during the global covid-19 pandemic. who’s the snake now? [image via wenn/instar.] related posts kim kardashian asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips — but gets epicly trolled by taylor swift fans taylor swift & ariana grande donate big to help their financially-strapped fans after coronavirus shutdowns! taylor swift & joe alwyn ‘definitely’ want to get married: he’s her ‘safe constant’ trying cbd cotton candy for the first time! plus, celeb craziness! lady gaga, dua lipa, kim kardashian & taylor swift! and more! |perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 23, 2020 6:16pm pdt share this categories celebrity feuds instagram kanye west kim kardashian taylor swift view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy