got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... taylor swift subtly addresses leaked kanye west phone call with new social media activity! home › taylor swift › taylor swift subtly addresses leaked kanye west phone call with new social media activity! taylor swift is feeling that quarantine life as much as the rest of us are right now, and for her, that apparently means taking to social media to react to this weekend’s major kanye west controversy! as we reported yesterday, taylor and kanye hit the news (again) when their infamous 2016 phone call was allegedly leaked online for the whole world to hear. and while we are still in shock over actually hearing the full thing as it goes now, we can be sure of one thing, at least: taylor is low-key reacting in her own way! related: taylor swift opens up about making sacrifices during the coronavirus outbreak the pop princess has taken to her favorite social media site of choice — tumblr, of course — and is opting to “like” posts in support of her from fans and followers reacting to all the drama. according to e! online, she liked one post that read as follows (below): “taylor told the truth mood board.” and added another like to this post, too: “how i sleep at night knowing we were right all this time and now we have the receipts to prove it.” very interesting! maybe she feels like she’s been vindicated a little bit?! her bff todrick hall certainly thinks so, at the very least. he’s come out with a major show of support for the lover singer, taking to twitter on saturday night to share his displeasure for kanye and his ongoing support for his pop royalty friend. related: watch taylor’s new music video for ‘the man’ here! at one point, todrick tweeted (below): my heart breaks listening to that phone call, the fact that she even picked up the phone and wasted her valuable time to listen to that nincompoop speak is just a testament to how great a human she is. #kanyewestisoverparty — todrick hall (@todrick) march 21, 2020 oh dayummm! and he later added more, following up with this message: “the sad part is that i’m sure there will be no apology from him or the millions of people who took those gifs of a conversation & trailer of an actual conversation as fact without ever hearing the convo in full. how does someone orchestrate a filming, not tell the unaware ‘co-star’ and still not be able to deliver an even semi-charming pitch to make themself not look like a creepy fame hungry musical villain? this is just not right. i’m not a fan of cancel culture & people make mistakes but this is clearly no mistake. the entire thing is manipulative and calculated and awkward to even hear her have to respond to his non-question questions. face with rolling eyes.” wow!!!! not holding back at all, is he?! related: taylor and katy perry aren’t close, but they ‘text a lot’ what do u think of all this taylor-kanye drama re-igniting right now, perezcious readers?? whose side are you on?? and what do you think about taylor reacting publicly with her tumblr “likes”?! sound off about everything down in the comments (below)!!! [image via wenn/instar] related posts kim kardashian asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips — but gets epicly trolled by taylor swift fans taylor swift & ariana grande donate big to help their financially-strapped fans after coronavirus shutdowns! taylor swift & joe alwyn ‘definitely’ want to get married: he’s her ‘safe constant’ trying cbd cotton candy for the first time! plus, celeb craziness! lady gaga, dua lipa, kim kardashian & taylor swift! and more! |perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 22, 2020 9:09am pdt share this categories controversy girl power icky icky poo kanye west music minute nostalgia sad sad taylor swift view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy