skip to main content subscribe now fashion beauty culture living runway shopping video open navigation menu menu story saved to revisit this article, visit my profile, then view saved stories.close alert close culture taylor swift gave thousands of dollars to fans affected by the coronavirus pandemic by emma specter march 26, 2020 facebook twitter pinterest photo: getty images facebook twitter pinterest democrats and republicans have finally reached a deal on how to assist those struggling in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic, approving a $2 trillion stimulus bill. while we wait for that legislation to go into effect, though, one unexpected figure has taken it upon herself to help those in need: taylor swift. the 30-year-old pop star has been sending fans individual payments online to help with financial burdens accrued due to covid-19, with billboard confirming that at least 10 such payments were made by swift on wednesday, march 25: https://twitter.com/tswiftla/status/1242971480574459905 longtime fans of swift won't be surprised at her generosity; her recent netflix documentary miss americana positioned her as a strong ally for the causes she cares about, from democratic politics to lgbtq+ issues. "i wish so badly that i could donate to the link taylor provided [to the charity feeding america] but because of covid-19 my job, my only source of income, is closed for a minimum of 30 days. i have no job, no income, no way to pay my bills rn. if anyone happens to be able to donate and has it in their hearts to do so, anything really really helps with bills right now," swift fan samantha jacobson wrote on tumblr, only to receive a dm from swift offering to send her $3,000 via paypal. swift isn't the only celebrity to help those affected by covid-19; blake lively and ryan reynolds donated $1 million to food banks, and britney spears has pledged to help struggling fans with money for everything from food to diapers. topicscoronavirus vogue daily the best new culture, style, and beauty stories from vogue, delivered to you daily. sign up now the latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on vogue.com. facebook twitter instagram more from vogue newsletter contact us about vogue careers see more stories fashion beauty culture living runway shopping reprints / permissions sitemap accessibility help masthead © 2020 condé nast. all rights reserved. use of this site constitutes acceptance of our user agreement (updated 1/1/20) and privacy policy and cookie statement (updated 1/1/20) and your california privacy rights. do not sell my personal information vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our affiliate partnerships with retailers. the material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of condé nast. ad choices cn fashion & beauty