skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me teaching english in korea teaching english is the best way to live and work abroad! i taught english in korea for 18 months, and it was the best experience of my life! i absolutely recommend it to everyone, whether you are fresh out of college, bored at your current job, or just want to get paid to travel the world. (click here to read all the blog posts i wrote about teaching while i was living in korea) you can apply to teach english in more than 100 countries – mostly in asia, europe and south america. i highly recommend looking into korea, because the salary, benefits and lifestyle together provide the best overall experience possible. just to give you an idea of how much i earned — my salary funded my travels to 17 new countries in asia, gave me the ability to eat out at korean bbq restaurants 4 nights a week and enabled me party my heart out in seoul every weekend without ever dipping into my savings account. the benefits of teaching in korea are incredible: free rent, round-trip flight reimbursements, covered health insurance, tax exempt (only for certain nationalities), a pension, free lunches, yearly bonuses and more. i’m not making this up! you are not required to know how to speak korean, but it will make your life a lot easier (it sure did for me). i learned korean from watching youtube videos, movies with subtitles and speaking with my korean friends. because i love you guys so much, i wrote this 7,000 word complete guide to teaching english in korea. i was originally going to make it an ebook and sell it for $50, but i decided to share all of the information for free so you can all have the same amazing experience that i had. it took me several weeks to put together this massive guide, and it has everything you need to know about teaching in korea from job eligibility, contracts, finding jobs, daily life in korea, important resources and much more. what are the requirements to teach english abroad there are 3 basic requirements to teach english in korea and in most other countries. they are getting a tefl certificate, having a degree from a 3+ year university, and holding a passport from an english speaking country. what is a tefl certificate? tefl = teach english as a foreign language. the certificate can be acquired by taking an online class which provides you with the necessary skills and training to be an effective teacher and to find a teaching position. the course only takes a few weeks to complete, and it’s very easy if you are a native english speaker or if you speak english as a second language. what is required of the tefl class? you are expected to learn a variety of things like seating arrangements, new lesson preparation and presentation, teaching the subskills of reading, working with larger class sizes, grammar, teaching english for specific purposes and much more. you will be required to work through the material and complete interactive activities and quizzes, and get those grammar points down. basically, you will learn the basics of stepping into an efl classroom and totally owning it! get your tefl on this link! *there are a lot of sketchy tefl companies online that will rip you off.* so, i’ve carefully selected the best tefl class that i recommend to you. it’s called mytefl and it’s one of the most affordable and reputable classes that you can take. click here to enroll and start your tefl journey today! if you use the discount code “drew,” then you will get 35% off the course! (these are affiliate links, meaning that i make a small percentage if you purchase the tefl on my link at no additional cost to you. this money will go directly into improving my website, so you’d be helping me out a lot.) mytefl – #1 recommended – 120 hour world-class certification course for $299 usd – drew binsky readers get a solid 35% off for a price of just $194 usd (code = drew) – 100% online so it can be taken anywhere with internet access – this certificate equips you with all the essential skills and tools necessary to successfully teach english anywhere in the world – ongoing support throughout including free job placement (including gepik and epik) – you can finish the entire course in as soon as 3 weeks! – use the discount code drew to purchase this class for just $194! enroll in mytefl now by clicking here and get ready to teach the world! don’t hesitate to contact me if you have any questions about teaching english ? about latest posts drew binsky a graduate from the university of wisconsin-madison, drew binsky has visited 190+ countries since 2012.he first caught the travel bug while studying abroad in prague, then taught english in korea, and now he's on a mission to visit every country on earth.follow his journey on youtube & instagram @drewbinsky 🙂 latest posts by drew binsky (see all) my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visited - january 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!! - july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18) - may 22, 2018 posted in travel post navigation what’s in my bag? a complete list my obnoxious travel collections 32 thoughts on “teaching english in korea” terry says: february 8, 2020 at 10:45 pm drew is such a con man. we in the korean teaching community laugh at his stupidity. he basically steals money by getting a finder´s fee to anyone stupid enough to buy the certificate, and he uses the cash to travel. he uses people like he uses his ´girlfriend´…. i am sure her catholic family is proud of the fact she is supplying this dork with so much free exotic stuff lol reply jenny tate says: february 27, 2020 at 8:06 am exactly! i just checked a job in south korea, they put this… esl teaching certificate – celta, delta, tefl, tesol are accepted. (no online certificates permitted) he just wants money and uses people. a total unethical person! reply pingback: north korea is not what i expected, and here’s why… – my wordpress website pingback: 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries - sbbuddy pingback: 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries – kaleyadams jainish shinde says: december 18, 2018 at 7:42 am hello, as i belong from non-native english speaking country ( india ) how can mytefl be helpful for me to find an english teaching job around the world? reply linda says: october 10, 2019 at 1:56 am please see, drew is misinformed. you do not need a tefl for teaching in south korea. it is better, if you want, to get a celta degree which is recognized around the world and is required in many countries. a tefl is basically wasting your money. there are too many companies that offer them,and schools know that they are money making schemes. the celta is from cambridge. it is the diamond. but to teach in south korea you do not need anything except a 4 year degree. but drew gets money from each tefl memebership he sells. reply mike cassidy says: december 26, 2019 at 11:37 pm i agree with you. so many people now know that drew goldberg has tricked so many students and used the money to see the world. i lost respect for him because of his lie. nobody needs the worthless certificate and yet he still gets cash from the students who trust him. reply vickie edwards says: february 1, 2020 at 9:39 pm from what i have seen, this guy partied in school, studied business, and now is wanting to portray himself as a reliable and trustworthy leader in the travel industry. the truth is that he had to use tricks to get his travel money. anyone with money can travel. he pretends to be wanting to help people but in reality he just uses people, and is clueless. reply jessica hill says: july 25, 2018 at 2:44 pm great post breaking down tefl! reply sunil shrestha says: july 8, 2018 at 12:58 pm drew was very young in the picture. i am a big fan of yours and don’t miss your travel videos. you are a great traveler. best of luck. reply professor martin says: april 8, 2018 at 11:13 pm hi drew, can i download you documnent about teaching in korea? also, which agency (employer) do you, or do you not, recommend….if any? thanks, martin. reply linda says: october 10, 2019 at 1:57 am please see, drew is misinformed. you do not need a tefl for teaching in south korea. it is better, if you want, to get a celta degree which is recognized around the world and is required in many countries. a tefl is basically wasting your money. there are too many companies that offer them,and schools know that they are money making schemes. the celta is from cambridge. it is the diamond. but to teach in south korea you do not need anything except a 4 year degree. but drew gets money from each tefl memebership he sells. reply khimy peregrino says: march 27, 2018 at 1:46 pm hi, drew! it seems links are not working anymore. is there any site that you can recommend? i want to teach as an english teacher in korea. 🙁 i hope you can help me. thank you! reply hishal says: march 20, 2018 at 9:29 pm hi drew your guide of teaching in korea which says 7000 words. i can’t see please can you check that. i’m considering to go either to korea or china reply mark says: march 17, 2018 at 12:40 pm hi drew i have a 120 hour tefl certificate, but how strict are they on the degree thing? i have a 2 year it diploma but very few people from 3rd world countries, like me (south africa), have the opportunity to attend university. in fact only 1% of the population of earth have tertiary education of any kind, so it would seem odd if this was a strict requirement as they would struggle to find teachers. do you know if they are lenient on this if you interview well? loving the blog and thanks for all the info! reply kimberly becvar-valdemira says: february 3, 2018 at 4:20 pm hi drew, i found you through something joel comm posted on facebook. i’m currently a special education teacher in new york. although i’m not ready to take the full time traveler plunge (yet), i was wondering if there are any short term assignments that are out there. here’s what i’m thinking…dip pinky toe in for a summer, then take a sabbatical where i’d be able to commit to a 14 month deal and see what happens from there. reply tonya chen says: february 3, 2018 at 11:55 pm drew, i must agree that teaching english in korea is one of the best experiences in my life as well! i wouldn’t trade my time there for anything. kimberly, it will be hard finding short term assignments in korea. contracts are usually for 12 months. sometimes during winter and summer they have short-term camps but usually they want teachers who are already in south korea with proper visas. it never hurts to ask though! check out http://worknplay.co.kr/ or craigslist seoul for these camps. best of luck! reply clear signs says: january 23, 2018 at 3:37 pm some really nice stuff on this website, i really enjoy it. reply david says: january 15, 2018 at 5:11 am hey drew, love all your posts man but i can’t seem to get into any of your old blog posts for thehungrypartier.com is the website gone? reply danielle says: january 9, 2018 at 1:33 am is your blog “hungry partier” deactivated or did you take it down? it says the site cannot be found when i click on it, and i’m extremely interested in reading about your experience of teaching abroad there as i’m hoping to go there myself and would love your insights and tips you have. reply maggie says: november 2, 2017 at 12:30 am hey drew! i know you’re in the middle of drake passage right now but when you get a chance, i as well would like to know if there is an updated promo code for the tefl course. they have a pretty solid promotion going right now but i’d like to support you when buying the course. thanks! have fun in antarctica! reply maggie says: november 2, 2017 at 12:42 am oops, never mind it’s working! reply pingback: the world is drew binsky's playground, join his global party - metiza justin squirewell says: september 5, 2017 at 1:51 pm the code drew is expired. is there a way to get another code reply maggie says: november 2, 2017 at 12:40 am it worked for me once i entered the drew in all caps! hopefully it works for you as well! reply willy says: june 3, 2017 at 11:03 am is it really required to hold a passport from an english speaking country to teach english as a foreign language? i’m dutch and was planning on teaching english in asia after graduation, but now i’m wondering how strict they really are when it comes to the passport requirement. i could still try get a uk passport (before brexit) as i have family there, but it would be a lot of trouble. reply drew binsky says: june 6, 2017 at 7:38 pm yes it’s required in most companies, however, you can be a private tutor in almost all countries that don’t speak english, which often pays as much (or more) than contracted jobs! reply manon wintjes says: may 25, 2017 at 1:44 am thanks this was interested. im nowearing in china working as a aupair in the family i also need to learn the oldest daughter english. reply drew binsky says: may 25, 2017 at 4:36 pm which part of china? reply pingback: where you can make the most money teaching english abroad | the reader magazine pingback: awesome work abroad experiences from around the world leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment * name * email * website recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.