content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip team one of our favorite things about cmi is our team. while a number of us are based in cleveland, our team is spread all around the world. joe pulizzi founder i am the founder of the content marketing institute. i’ve spent more than a decade teaching marketers how to be publishers. as one of the founders of the content marketing movement, i founded cmi after co-writing the handbook on content marketing, get content, get customers. other books include killing marketing, content, inc. and epic content marketing, named one of “five must read business books of 2013” by fortune magazine. i travel around the world talking to businesses, in keynotes and workshops, about the need to create valuable media channels, leveraging print, online, in-person and social media platforms in the process. i’m so glad you have joined us at cmi. i have found that a lot of people understand the why of content marketing, but they have a lot of questions about how they should execute their initiatives. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @joepulizzi | contact me stephanie stahl general manager as general manager of cmi, i lead the brand’s event and digital operations – and get to work with the best team on the planet! previously, i served as vp of content marketing for ubm’s technology portfolio, providing strategic guidance on content development, content optimization, audience engagement, and go-to-market platforms for our technology clients. i’ve worked for ubm, which is now owned by informa, for more than two decades, helping shape new multimedia content and event offerings. i live in the washington, dc area with my husband and we enjoy spending time taking care of our many pets and visiting our two daughters on their college campuses. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @editorstahl | contact me robert rose chief strategy advisor robert is the founder and chief strategy officer of the content advisory, the education and consulting group for the content marketing institute. robert has worked with more than 500 companies, including 15 of the fortune 100. he’s provided content marketing and strategy advice for global brands such as capital one, nasa, dell, mccormick spices, hewlett packard, microsoft, and the bill & melinda gates foundation. robert’s third book – killing marketing, with co-author joe pulizzi has been called the “book that rewrites the rules of marketing”. his second book – experiences: the seventh era of marketing is a top seller and has been called a “treatise, and a call to arms for marketers to lead business innovation in the 21st century.” robert’s first book, managing content marketing, spent two weeks as a top ten marketing book on amazon.com and is generally considered to be the “owners manual” of the content marketing process. you can catch up with robert weekly on his popular podcast – the weekly wrap. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @robert_rose | contact me peter loibl head of sales i’m the head of sales of cmi and tca, which serves as cmi’s in-house content agency. an early-stage cmi team member and the brand’s original vp of sales, i’ve enjoyed the journey of watching cmi and content marketing world grow from infancy through our acquisition by ubm (now part of informa tech) and i’m excited to play a role in keeping our business thriving under the watch of our new parent company. my 20+ years of media and marketing experience include multiple senior sales management positions (including crain communications and american business media), running the us business of a martech startup, and dozens of speaking spotlights, content contributions and recognition as an onalytics top 100 content marketing influencer. follow me on twitter @peterloibl | contact me kim moutsos vice president of editorial i’m thrilled and humbled to join cmi in late 2017 to head up the team that plans, produces, polishes, and packages nearly everything you read on the site. after more than 20 years of working in content marketing (for tech companies large and small), i’m ready to swap stories about content marketing with this engaged and engaging community. in particular, i love to talk to content marketers who’ve successfully built loyal audiences and produced measurable business results. and also to content marketers who are still working on it. i left my heart near san francisco with my husband, son, and dog. (the rest of me lives there, too.) read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @kmoutsos | contact me cathy mcphillips vice president of marketing as cmi’s vp of marketing, i oversee all marketing efforts for cmi, our events, magazine, research, cmi university and all other cmi properties and happenings. my goal is to grow our cmi community and audience online and offline. i want to make sure that each person that learns about cmi knows all of our offerings and knows that we ultimately want to help advance each of our community members’ content marketing efforts. additionally, i want to have as many people in our community as possible at our in-person events year after year, by making sure we give them an epic experience so that they’ll want to return. pre-cmi, i have 20+ years in marketing, including agency life, b2c, national restaurant and nonprofit marketing, and my own marketing consulting business. i’m currently also a board member for the orange effect foundation. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @cmcphillips| contact me joseph kalinowski creative director i oversee all of the creative and art direction of all cmi/cmw projects. i have worked as an art director for 18 years both in advertising and the publishing industry. my role as creative director is truly an exciting (and fun) one. to be a part of great cmi/cmw initiatives from the earliest ideation to their final release is something very special. i am very fortunate to have such a great team to work with that has a keen sense of creative vision and allows me to lead the charge. follow me on twitter @jkkalinowski | contact me laura kozak digital production & operations director i am “girl friday” for the content marketing institute, and all related cmi properties. in other words, you need a project done, i am your girl! in addition to overall operations management, my main responsibility is to facilitate all projects in regards to our websites and e-media, including our ebooks, whitepapers and other educational resources. i also oversee all online sponsor programs including cmi’s benefactors, digital advertising and syndicated content programs. before cmi, i worked for a trade show display manufacturer as a lead system and purchasing coordinator. follow me on twitter @lalakoz | contact me jodi harris director of editorial content and strategy, cmi; editor-in-chief, cco i play a somewhat hybrid role at cmi — i’m part mad-strategist, part creative explorer, and fully dedicated to producing the high-quality content our audience needs to achieve greater success with content marketing. the diversity of this position means i get to tackle a wide range of projects — from building new content initiatives, to writing original content, to extending the value of our existing content assets through content curation. i’ve been producing and managing content programs for media brands, publishers, and agencies alike for more than a decade. now, i’m thrilled to bring this experience to my role as cco’s editor-in-chief. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @joderama | contact me lisa murton beets research director i’ve held various roles with cmi since its inception. i stepped into the newly created role of research director in 2012. in my position, i oversee methodology, sampling, survey design, data collection, analysis, and reporting. i also collaborate with cmi’s sales, editorial, and marketing teams and manage our research vendor relationships. on the custom research side, i work with robert rose, cmi’s chief strategy advisor, and nancy reese, cmi research consultant, to develop projects for brands seeking deeper insights into specific areas of content marketing. i’ve been working in marketing communications, custom publishing/media, b2b journalism, and research for more than 20 years. i’m passionate about using content marketing-focused research to discover insights that will help marketers get optimal results from their content marketing. i’m an advocate for putting your audience first, as i believe it is the best way to develop trust and build a loyal customer base. read my blog posts on cmi | follow me on twitter @lisabeets | contact me lisa dougherty sr. blog and community manager i manage the editorial process, calendar and contributors for the cmi blog. i feel so fortunate to work with our fabulous contributors, both inside and outside of cmi. i am passionate about providing the best possible experience for our writers as you are key to making cmi a success. i love hearing from current and potential writers as well as our readers. do you want to write for cmi? check out our blog guidelines. do you have feedback about how i can improve your experience with cmi or suggestions on how i can improve our blog so it’s more valuable to you? send me an email anytime. i bring over 20 years of marketing experience to this position and consider myself to be “hybrid marketer” who has a diverse range of knowledge in marketing communications, creative services project management, social media, and brand strategy and development. besides working for cmi, i am also the founder of a freelance marketing business called brandlove that specializes in personal brand development for executives and marketing consulting for entrepreneurs, b2b’s, and b2c’s. follow me on twitter @brandlovellc or on linkedin | contact me amanda subler public relations & video consultant i primarily oversee all the pr and publicity for cmi and all of our brands. i also manage all of our video projects and in 2015 produced our award-winning documentary, “the story of content.” on top of that, i help out with strategic media partnerships for our events. as a former journalist with a background in local tv news, i’m passionate about the power of storytelling. i love that i get to tell the world about our great team and the work they do here at cmi. feel free to contact me if you ever need any information about cmi or our team. follow me on twitter @amandasubler | contact me karen schopp strategic account manager as strategic account manager, i am passionate about helping advertisers connect with the right audience (and in the right channels) to help them exceed their goals. my focus is on building strong, long-term relationships that bring value to the cmi ever-growing galaxy of brand content marketers and practitioners. cmi media channels run the gamut from event sponsorships, online lead-generation programs, branding print placements, custom research to sponsorship content—with many more targeted and integrated programs in between. if you are a technology solution provider, agency, or media company that offers a kick-ass solution for brand content marketers—let’s connect! connect on linkedin | follow me on twitter @custom_publish | contact me drew james strategic account manager i am our strategic account manager handling the eastern us and international revenue partnerships. i specialize in translating complex business, technology, demand generation, marketing and media information into compelling, real-world sales messages for my clients. what i enjoy the most is helping our clients find the right product that intersects with the most critical segments of our audience for them. i have strong b2b and b2c experience targeting fortune 1000 companies and their executives with over 13 years in media, most recently as publisher/brand director for target marketing. if your marketing or sales team is looking for assistance in any of the following areas: brand development; growth strategy and business development; demand generation; digital marketing; integrated inbound marketing/seo/social media or performance marketing i’d be happy to discuss how the cmi channel portfolio and audience will work for you. let’s connect!! connect on linkedin | follow me on twitter @ajames8774 | contact me angela vannucci project management consultant i oversee the production of chief content officer magazine, as well as cmi’s webinar and sponsored e-mail programs. i am the owner of execution matters, a firm specializing in project management for publishers and content marketers. with more than two decades of experience, i assist clients with their a-z project management needs in print and online. as the former associate director at penton custom media, i have helped companies launch and maintain content marketing programs across the country, in a variety of industries. contact me krissy leskovec consultant – content marketing awards program manager as program manager of the content marketing awards, i oversee the recruitment, application and selection process for the international awards program. i also have the great pleasure of planning and executing all award-related activities at content marketing world. with a background in philanthropy, i worked several years as a nonprofit advocate, managing small and large scale fundraisers across the u.s. most recently, i assisted with the launch of the orange effect foundation, an organization i continue to support today. follow me on twitter @krissyleskovec | contact me john hanson audience development manager as cmi’s audience development manager, i serve as the administrative manager for both our crm and marketing automation systems. i have over 10 years’ experience within the digital marketing space with my roots in project management. my role allows for me to make and influence data driven decisions by identifying changes in online and on-site behavior. there is no down-time when your the data and process liaison between sales and marketing, and i would not have it any other way. and to be able to work with a team of experts which are as passionate in their fields as i am in mine, is truly awesome. follow me on twitter @jphautomation | contact me monina wagner community manager monina is a social media professional by day and one heck of a basketball mom by night. in a previous life, monina wrote in 30-second sound bites for tv newscasts. she now spends her days crafting conversations in 140 characters or less as community manager for content marketing institute. her social media experience includes executing numerous award-winning campaigns for clients. follow me on twitter @moninaw | contact me contact me andrea larick speaker engagement manager while being a part of cmi events for the past seven years, i officially joined the team in late 2017 as the speaker engagement manager. i am responsible for on-boarding speakers, preparing and generating content, and executing the onsite educational programming for the contenttech summit and content marketing world events. i work directly with the agenda selection team to generate high-level content, delivered by industry-leading speakers. pre-cmi, i have 20+ years of experience in event planning and enjoy the pressure of juggling all the little details to implement a successful meeting, conference or trade show. follow me on twitter @a_larick | contact me angelina kaminski consultant – wordpress manager i am responsible for loading the content marketing institute posts that are published each day on the cmi blog. as a digital marketer, i am passionate about the valuable content we share with our readers at cmi! i love that our insights can help small businesses and corporate marketers alike grow their online presence and drive value. follow me on twitter @angelinakamin | contact me dave anthony it consultant my role is primarily “behind the scenes”, making sure that our it infrastructure is running in top shape. that includes managing the servers, systems and related vendors that support all of cmi’s web properties. but what i really love is taking the brilliant concepts from other team members and turning them into something tangible on the web that benefits our visitors and fans. contact me kim borden administrative assistant i joined the cmi team in 2014, primarily behind the scenes, assisting the editorial and marketing teams with their various analytics and projects. i also get the opportunity to interact with our wonderful attendees at our events as i assist with volunteer coordination and other event-related projects. follow me on twitter @kborden3 | contact me connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree