skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about tech buying guides over the past few years i have reviewed lots of products that bloggers and web developers will need such as web hosting, web design software or blogging platforms. in this section you will find all the different technology and gadget reviews i have written. whether you need a laptop for programming, a laptop for editing photos a 2-in-1 laptop, a camera for vlogging or some noise cancelling headphones to help you get in the zone. just visit any of the articles below to see my recommendations. the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews by jamie in today’s technology-driven world, most of us spend hours of our day sitting at a desk. whether we’re working eight hours a day at the office or spending hours on social media websites, the average person can spend upwards of one-third of their day sitting at a computer desk. evolution didn’t design the human body … read morethe best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews categories tech buying guides cheap domains – a 2020 guide to where to buy the cheapest domain names by jamie creating and publishing a website is not always a cheap endeavor. most people don’t realize just how many things they have to pay for to get a site up and running. not only do you have to pay for development, but there’s also web hosting and domain registration to worry about. depending on the size … read morecheap domains – a 2020 guide to where to buy the cheapest domain names categories tech buying guides the best cheap wordpress hosting – 2020 guide by jamie choosing the right host for your wordpress site is an incredibly important decision. you’ve 100% made the right decision in choosing the best blogging platform ( wordpress ) and now it’s time to make sure you get the right hosting. your website’s performance, security, and reliability are all influenced by your host. but, since you’re … read morethe best cheap wordpress hosting – 2020 guide categories tech buying guides a guide to all the free vps – and nearly free ones by jamie if you’re looking for a web hosting option with a bit more control and flexibility than what you can get from typical hosting plans, vps is the way to go. vps stands for virtual private server. it strikes a nice balance between the affordability of shared hosting and the robust resources of dedicated hosting. these … read morea guide to all the free vps – and nearly free ones categories tech buying guides the best email hosting providers for 2020 by jamie email is the cornerstone of modern digital communications. it offers a quick, easy, and professional way to communicate with others without having to deal with the hassles of snail mail. it’s particularly useful for small businesses looking to stay in touch with their clients and customer base. having the best email service is crucial in … read morethe best email hosting providers for 2020 categories tech buying guides best unlimited cloud storage solutions – 2020 by jamie when it comes to storage space for digital files and backups, you can never have enough. it’s impossible to plan for your future storage needs. as technology continues to advance, data files are only going to get bigger. while fixed cloud storage plans or free cloud storage services might be fine for now, you’re going … read morebest unlimited cloud storage solutions – 2020 categories tech buying guides the best free cloud backup storage solutions – 2020 by jamie while technology has come a long way in the last few decades, digital files are not immune to issues. data can get lost, corrupted, and deleted, leaving you with very little options for recovery. even the most advanced solid-state hard drive can experience problems that render your files useless. whether you run a business or … read morethe best free cloud backup storage solutions – 2020 categories tech buying guides best month to month web hosting deals – 2020 by jamie afraid of commitment? we get it. from committing to a relationship to buying a house, not everyone wants to be locked into a long-term commitment. the same is true for web hosting. for some website owners, it makes more sense to go month-to-month. doing so will allow you to test the performance, security, tools, and … read morebest month to month web hosting deals – 2020 categories tech buying guides, wordpress how to set up a vpn – protecting you on the web – 2020 guide by jamie in our connected world, everything you do online can be traced back to you. despite the false sense of anonymity that screen names and private browsing sessions offer, your information is still accessible by numerous third parties. every time you connect to the web, your activity and data can be seen by your internet service … read morehow to set up a vpn – protecting you on the web – 2020 guide categories tech buying guides best vpns for kodi – 2020 guide by jamie since its release back in 2002, kodi has revolutionized the way people consume digital media. it’s an open-sourced media player that can act as your central entertainment hub. instead of having to constantly switch between devices and streaming platforms to gain access to all of your favorite movies, tv shows, and music, kodi puts everything … read morebest vpns for kodi – 2020 guide categories tech buying guides 5 eyes, 9 eyes and 14 eyes surveillance alliances – ultimate guide 2020 by jamie as more and more people are becoming aware of global surveillance, the 5 eyes, 9 eyes, and 14 eyes global surveillance alliances are coming out of the shadows and increasingly in the spotlight. in this guide, you’ll learn everything there is to know about these alliances, and more importantly, how to keep your privacy protected … read more5 eyes, 9 eyes and 14 eyes surveillance alliances – ultimate guide 2020 categories tech buying guides a guide to the best vpn for uae – 2020 by jamie whether you’re currently living in the united arab emirates or you plan on visiting in the near future, you may want to consider investing in a solid vpn service. the uae is notorious for its strict censorship laws. many popular websites and streaming services are strictly forbidden and actively blocked by the country’s service providers. … read morea guide to the best vpn for uae – 2020 categories tech buying guides the best vpn for spotify – 2020 guide – how to unblock spotify from anywhere by jamie in the last century, the way we listen to music has changed dramatically. we went from having to carry around large vinyl records to having access to millions of songs right in our pockets. these days, instant digital streaming is the easiest and most cost-effective way to listen to music. one of the leaders in … read morethe best vpn for spotify – 2020 guide – how to unblock spotify from anywhere categories tech buying guides what is a vpn? – beginners guide to virtual private networks by jamie in the last decade, internet usage has skyrocketed. with all of the recent innovations in technology and consumer electronics, connecting to the internet is easier and more accessible than ever. in 2020, approximately 56 percent of the human population around the world has internet access. that’s more than three billion people! unfortunately, with such widespread … read morewhat is a vpn? – beginners guide to virtual private networks categories tech buying guides a guide to the best cheap vpns on the market – 2020 by jamie let’s face it, using the internet is not a cheap endeavour. in addition to the actual device you plan on connecting, you have to deal with the cost of service from your isp. throw some added security and privacy features on top and things start to add up quite quickly. investing in a vpn, also … read morea guide to the best cheap vpns on the market – 2020 categories tech buying guides post navigation older posts 1 2 3 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub