news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund eat the rich. by kevin raposo march 25, 2020 image: knowtechie we get it, you have a life. there’s no way you can read all of the day’s news in one single shot, let alone visit every web page, which is why we’re here to help. well, sort of. there’s a ton of tech news we weren’t able to cover throughout the day (hey, give us a break, we’re a small independent outfit), so to help you stay up to speed with everything we didn’t get to, we rounded up some of the biggest stories, which should help you keep up to date. hence the tech hangover. here’s some tech news you probably missed out on today (and when we say you, we mean us, but also…you). jeff bezos, world’s richest man, asks public to donate to amazon relief fund image: imgflip this is comical. this man can literally pay all of his employees out of his own pocket and it would still be chump change to him. seriously, eat the rich. amazon ceo jeff bezos faces backlash after publicising a relief fund the public can donate to for his contract employees working during the covid-19 pandemic. – the independent singapore government to make its contact-tracing app freely available to developers worldwide image: unsplash this app is pretty genius actually. it basically identifies people who have been within 2m of coronavirus patients for at least 30 minutes, using wireless bluetooth technology. in a move to help the international community combat the coronavirus pandemic, the government will be making the software for its contact-tracing application tracetogether, which has already been installed by more than 620,000 people, freely available to developers around the world. – straitstimes facebook is ‘just trying to keep the lights on’ as traffic soars in pandemic image: facebook see, they’re just like any company. but the difference here is that it’s really affecting the company. if they their platform goes down due to an outage, they lose out on a bunch of money. like, a whole lot. skyrocketing traffic and a crush of new users are now stressing facebook’s systems just as its 45,000 employees are dealing with working remotely for the first time. the company is also trying to keep its users’ data secure while employees who sift through posts to moderate content do so from home. – new york times app store rules are preventing game streaming services from reaching iphone and ipad users image: microsoft this is such a shitty move by apple i don’t even know what to say. as highlighted in a new report from bloomberg, apple’s current rules prevent makers of game streaming services to get an app on the app store. the rules disallow an app from acting as a game repository that can contain content from other publishers. – 9to5mac via bloomberg living a google-free life with a huawei phone this is huawei’s first phone that doesn’t come shipped with google apps and services. judging from the review, the phone is one of the best out there, but you the software that backs it up is lame. huawei is about to announce its latest flagship phones, the p40 series, but they won’t be able to run google apps. does that mean you shouldn’t even consider it? we spent time with the mate 30 pro to find out. – the verge and in just case you missed some of our stuff earlier, here’s what you may have missed: how to change your zoom background on desktop and mobile pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues the fbi is pushing a home-workout app that tracks your location and wifi network the best meditation apps to cut through the noise review: senstroke – play drums on any surface, anywhere, anytime instagram’s new co-watching feature lets you browse posts with friends – here’s how to use it the 10 best vr headsets in 2020 safari’s latest update now blocks all third-party cookies by default this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers with more gamers online, sony and microsoft are looking at ways to deal with increased demands snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 hey joe, how do you edit your shots for knowtechie? notable mentions coronavirus: britons saying final goodbyes to dying relatives by videolink nextdoor pivots to neighborliness who would have thought an ipad cursor could be so much fun? living a google-free life with a huawei phone have any thoughts on this? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. related topicsamazonapp storeappleappsfacebookgooglehuaweijeff bezosnewstech hangover kevin raposo founder & editor. email me at kevin@knowtechie.com comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in tech hangover tech hangover: 2020’s ipad pro is still a tablet and not a laptop you'll never convince me otherwise. tech hangover: could electronic surveillance help curb the spread of covid-19? probably, but let's try this whole self-isolation thing and wait for it all to... tech hangover: netflix is being told to slow its platform down to prevent the internet from breaking everyone eventually reaches their own data cap. tech hangover: sony and apple had a pretty good day we got two pretty big announcements today. tech hangover: the u.s government wants to track your phone to curb covid-19’s reach wake me up when september ends. tech hangover: the upcoming xbox series x is an absolute unit seriously, this thing is going to be so good. tech hangover: coronavirus strikes again make it stop. tech hangover: ios 14 leaks keep on coming for days.... tech hangover: 2020’s ipad pro is still a tablet and not a laptop home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie