australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video health 03/27/2020 11:31 edt teen who may have died of coronavirus was denied care for not having insurance: mayor the 17-year-old is thought to be the youngest known person to die of the illness in the u.s. by sara boboltz, huffpost us a lancaster, california, teenager thought to have died from covid-19 last week was turned away from an urgent care clinic because he did not have health insurance, delaying medical attention at a critical time, the town’s mayor said thursday. “he didn’t have insurance, so they did not treat him,” mayor r. rex parris said in a video update. “on friday ... he was healthy, he was socializing with his friends. by wednesday, he was dead.” parris did not reveal the name of the urgent care clinic, but said the teen was referred to antelope valley (av) hospital, a public hospital north of los angeles. “en route to av hospital, he went into cardiac arrest. when he got to av hospital, they were able to revive him and keep him alive for about six hours,” parris said. while the los angeles county department of public health initially said the 17-year-old had died of coronavirus, officials later backtracked. the centers for disease control and prevention in atlanta is now looking into the case to determine a conclusive cause of death. “on further investigation ... there were extenuating circumstances that pointed to an alternative diagnosis as well,” los angeles county public health director barbara ferrer said at a press conference wednesday. the case could be the youngest known victim of covid-19 in the u.s., which passed an alarming milestone on thursday to become the country with the most confirmed cases worldwide. according to parris, the teen had been sick for “a few days” and had no previous health conditions. the los angeles health department’s website has tracked 1,216 cases in los angeles county, while california is currently reporting more than 4,000 cases across the state. parris concluded his video with a message of solidarity: “this next few months, we have to be together. we have to be strong. and most importantly, stay home.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction sara boboltz reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus los angeles health insurance covid-19 lancaster, california trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to our newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.