content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip by ann gynn published march 23, 2020 get an a for accuracy with this fact-checking content checklist let’s make this simple. factually wrong content is bad. accuracy is a necessity for trust from your audience. welcome to the content creators’ and editors’ fact-checking checklist. continue reading → by jodi harris published february 3, 2020 how to create a strategic social media plan [template] not sure if you are distributing your content on the right social channels or in the right way to drive action? here’s how to build a social media marketing plan to put all the essential decision-making info right at your fingertips. continue reading → by jodi harris published december 30, 2019 marketers: reclaim your time with these productivity tips, tools, and templates if you thought 2019 was a struggle, you’ll need all the extra bandwidth you can muster for 2020. this collection of tips, checklists, and templates can help you reclaim some lost time and get more accomplished in the new year. continue reading → by bryan arnott published november 27, 2019 what this agency did to rank its blog at the top of google (case study) ranking at the top of google search results is challenging for every content marketer. this case study from a 2019 content marketing agency of the year shows how they did it (and you can too). continue reading → by nico prins published september 26, 2019 how to use google search console to increase traffic to your site do you know what google sees in your content? how would that knowledge help you boost traffic? read on for a seven-step process that uses the free google search console to make those discoveries and explore the opportunities. continue reading → by michael becker published september 24, 2019 how to get great guests for your b2b podcast [outreach templates] an interview-based b2b podcast’s success is predicated on multiple factors, but none bigger than the quality and diversity of guests. get the strategies and templates to find amazing guests from someone who’s been here, done that. continue reading → by jodi harris published september 16, 2019 nail your content performance with this measurement starter kit a sound content marketing measurement plan can inform what you should continue, what you should change, what you should stop, and what you should start to deliver bigger and better results for your brand. continue reading → by ahava leibtag published june 21, 2019 must-have checklist to creating valuable content successful content marketing strategies take all the guesswork out of execution, letting the creative flourish. to help get the details straight, use this creating valuable content™ checklist. continue reading → by ann gynn published february 28, 2019 how to write headlines that get your brand what it wants [checklist] counting headlines is an antiquated skill. but the sentiment should live on: writing a headline that best fits its environment is what makes it great. follow this checklist for headlines that work for your audience and your brand. continue reading → by jodi harris published december 25, 2018 the best checklists, tips, and templates for content marketing in 2019 long-term success with content marketing requires a mastery of the fundamentals. this fresh toolkit – featuring some of cmi’s best tips, checklists, and templates – can help you do that. continue reading → 1 2 next page » connect with us 210,010 subscriberssubscribe 141,693 fanslike 290,330 followersfollow 66,628 followersfollow 12,569 in circlescircle 22,342 subscriberssubscribe 7,935 followersfollow how-to guides getting started content marketing 101 begins plan build fundamentals of your plan audience understand your core audiences story tell your brand story channels determine your distribution channels process manage your team and tools conversation create your content and listen measurement prove the effectiveness of your program current hits all time hits blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree