home politics cltv mediabites search this site: search login | register username: * password: * forgot password? remember my login on this computer terms of service this statement of terms of service (tos) governs the use of crooksandliars.com (henceforth c&l). by accessing or using c&l, you agree to the following terms. 1) privacy your privacy is very important to us. we have taken great care in developing a privacy policy for your protection and ours. we encourage you to read it in full so that you may make the informed decisions necessary to achieve the most of c&l. 2) user accounts in order to participate in the c&l community, a user must first register an account. the following rules apply to the creation and maintaining of all user accounts users are limited to a single account only. creating multiple accounts are grounds for an immediate ban of all accounts. usernames must not contain foul language, spam, racist, sexist, homophobic or any other hateful language you are responsible for the security of your account. only you know the password and our programmers can not even retrieve them. if violations occur on your account because it was hijacked by someone else, then your account will remain banned. you may not change your username. pick a name you like when you register and make sure you will continue to like that name. keep a valid email address associated with your account at all times. c&l will never disclose your email to parties outside of the c&l staff. users may upload “avatars” or images associated with their accounts. these images appear on all content associated with you and provide an easy way to identify you as the author. images may not be pornographic or hateful. c&l reserves the right to remove any avatar we feel objectionable to the overall vision of c&l. your public profile is just that, public. by providing information such as biography, facebook, homepage or twitter links, or any other information, you recognize that this information will be viewable by all users. if you do not want this information known then do not fill it in. all this information is voluntary and used to help build a vibrant community. c&l also utilizes the disqus commenting system. you can opt to have your c&l account linked to a disqus account, or use only a disqus account for commenting. the terms of service for disqus will also apply to the usage of those accounts. c&l cannot provide any assistance with problems you may encounter with the disqus account system. please direct all inquiries to the disqus support site. 3) commenting c&l takes pride and a vibrant and lively discussion on our posts. please understand that commenting on c&l is not a right, but rather a privilege. our commenting section is moderated by a team of volunteers. we stand behind the decisions of these valuable members of our team. any requests for information on reason for disciplinary actions against a user will not be answered. we reserve the right to share any identifiable information on our servers with disqus when a user is found to circumvent any bans, filtering systems or other abuses of the services provided by disqus. in addition to the terms of service of disqus, you also agree to: keep all comment threads on topic. this includes the main comments of the post and all sub-threads within that post’s comments. will not post comments that contain spam, pornographic material, malware, trojans or any other items harmful to the community. failure to comply with this rule is grounds for an immediate ban. will not engage in racism, sexism, homophobia, anti-semitism or other intolerance. this includes referring to any person as a "whore", "cunt", "bitch", questioning their sexuality or any other terms we deem offensive. if your only means of disagreeing with an individual (rather a fellow commenter, c&l team member or any other individual) is to engage in this type of hate speech, then c&l is not the community for you. not post comments that are obscene, hateful, threatening or wishing acts of violence against other. will not engage in “flame-baiting” or trolling. will opt to ignore users before engaging in any of the above. keep all discussions civil. everyone has a right to disagree, but do so respectfully and refrain from name calling. give proper attribution to all copied content and keep said copied work to a maximum of three paragraphs. will not repost the same content numerous times. will not post personal information, including "doxing", of any individual without express permission of said individual and approved by c&l staff. c&l reserves the right to release any information we posses on a user violating this section with law enforcement, agents of the violated individual and courts. understand that the c&l staff reserves the right to edit or delete any comment for the purpose of; compliance with the tos and/or privacy policy, content and clarity. we also reserve the right to edit content for any reason not stated above. understand that disciplinary and moderation actions of our staff and volunteer moderators is final and not up for debate or appeal. anyone violating these terms can be immediately banned from commenting and/or accessing the site. bans are not up for appeal or debate. any requests for such will go unanswered. 4) c&l staff c&l employ a volunteer staff to moderate our site. the decisions of the c&l staff are final and not open for debate. as these are volunteers, please respect the decisions of our staff as our goals is to make c&l a friendly and fun place. 5) bans we reserve the right to ban any user who has violated this tos. bans maybe either permanent or temporary depending on the reason for said ban. any attempt to circumvent the ban will be grounds for a further action. 6) termination c&l may terminate your access to all or any part of the website at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective immediately. if you wish to terminate this agreement or your crooksandliars.com account (if you have one), you may simply discontinue using the website. all provisions of this agreement which by their nature should survive termination shall survive termination, including, without limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of liability. 7) disclaimer of warranties. the website is provided “as is”. c&l and its suppliers and licensors hereby disclaim all warranties of any kind, express or implied, including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. neither c&l nor its suppliers and licensors, makes any warranty that the website will be error free or that access thereto will be continuous or uninterrupted. you understand that you download from, or otherwise obtain content or services through, the website at your own discretion and risk. 8) limitation of liability. in no event will c&l, or its suppliers or licensors, be liable with respect to any subject matter of this agreement under any contract, negligence, strict liability or other legal or equitable theory for: (i) any special, incidental or consequential damages; (ii) the cost of procurement or substitute products or services; or (iii) for interruption of use or loss or corruption of data. c&l shall have no liability for any failure or delay due to matters beyond their reasonable control. the foregoing shall not apply to the extent prohibited by applicable law. 9) general representation and warranty. you represent and warrant that (i) your use of the website will be in strict accordance with the c&l privacy policy, with this agreement and with all applicable laws and regulations (including without limitation any local laws or regulations in your country, state, city, or other governmental area, regarding online conduct and acceptable content, and including all applicable laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the united states or the country in which you reside) and (ii) your use of the website will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of any third party. 10) indemnification. you agree to indemnify and hold harmless c&l, its contractors, and its licensors, and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of your use of the website, including but not limited to out of your violation this agreement. 11) miscellaneous. this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between c&l and you concerning the subject matter hereof, and they may only be modified by a written amendment signed by an authorized executive of c&l, or by the posting by c&l of a revised version. latest fox and friends pretends trump is sympathetic to ny's need for ventilators. ainsley earhardt completely re-words dear leader's response to gov. cuomo's plea for 30,000 ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by aliza worthington trump 'doesn't believe' we don't need so many ventilators good to know, stable genius! mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump admits his 'issues' with michigan's woman governor are affecting covid aid what the hell, donald. grow up and do your job. mar 27, 2020 by john amato trump's 'easter' schedule is all about the brunch money of course trump's hotels have a profit center around the after-church easter buffets. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum jimmy kimmel interviews joe biden about the coronavirus crisis "speed matters," biden said about trump's response. mar 27, 2020 by susie madrak view all » latest from cltv governor cuomo's henry v speech: 'we will tell our grandchildren and shed a tear' andrew cuomo speaks to new york national guard troops in a speech that will long be remembered. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum fox & friends revisionist history of trump's denial that new york needs ventilators fox & friends lies about what trump said just the night before with sean hannity about new york's need for ventilators. mar 27, 2020 by heather trump to hannity: 'i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators' "you know, you go to major hospitals, sometimes they have 2 ventilators." says stable genius. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum trump whines to hannity about governor whitmer of course the strong woman governor is a problem for donald. mar 27, 2020 by frances langum tucker carlson attacks the media for reporting on the dangers of trump promoting untested covid-19 treatments fox's tucker carlson goes after the media for daring to report on trump's dangerous rhetoric promoting experimental coronavirus treatments. mar 27, 2020 by heather visit cltv » stay connected facebook twitter flipboard feeds daily newsletter our daily top picks right to your inbox email name name="b_1b79560977ef0d50a412db2c8_d4904be7bc" tabindex="-1" value=""> staff editor & publisher john amato managing editor karoli kuns associate editors aliza worthington frances langum heather nicole belle susie madrak contributors chris capper li... dale merrill david ed scarce jenn budd newshound ellen red painter webmaster jamie support c&l or by snail mail: crooksandliars.com po box 66310 los angeles, ca 90066 ©2020 crooks and liars footer about us feeds contact terms of service privacy dmca search this site: search home cltv politics media bites entertainment activism sports tech green business yesteryear misc