menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies terms of use these are the terms of use (the “agreement”) applicable to https://thoughtcatalog.com and https://collective.world (the “sites”). the agreement is a legally binding contract between the thought & expression company llc (“we” “our” or “us’) and anyone who accesses or uses the sites (“you” or “your”). conditions for use of the sites the sites are intended for persons who are 18 or older. if you are under 18, do not access or use the sites. the sites are offered subject to your acceptance without modification of all of the terms and conditions contained in this agreement. by accessing or using any part of the sites, you agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of the agreement as such terms and conditions may be modified by us from time to time in our sole discretion. if you do not agree to all of the terms and conditions of the agreement without modification, then do not access or use the sites. please check this agreement periodically for changes. your continued access or use of the sites following any changes to the agreement constitutes your acceptance of those changes. copyright and intellectual property rights the sites and all of the articles, reviews, comments, images, logos, sounds, and other materials on the sites, including the “look and feel” of the sites (collectively “site content”), are protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. you may not reproduce, republish, distribute, display, perform, transmit, sell, or otherwise use any site content without our express written permission. if you wish to request permission to use any site content, please email your request to us at permissions@thoughtcatalog.com. copyright infringement just as we ask others to respect our intellectual property rights, we respect the intellectual property rights of others. if you believe that any site content infringes upon your copyright, please notify us by email at copyright@thoughtcatalog.com. your notice should include (a) a description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed; (b) the url where the allegedly infringing site content is located; (c) your full name, postal address, telephone number, and email address; (d) a statement that you have a good faith belief that the use of the allegedly infringing material on our sites is not authorized; (e) your physical or electronic signature; and (f) a statement that you are the copyright owner or an authorized agent of the copyright owner. affiliate links and sponsored posts we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means to earn revenue by advertising and linking to amazon.com. links originating on our sites that lead to product purchases at amazon.com generate revenue for us. we may also earn revenue from site content that is sponsored by advertisers or other third parties. sponsored site content will be identified as such (e.g., sponsored post, paid distribution, or similar term). user content we may post reviews, comments, articles, and other materials from users of the sites and contributors to the sites (“user content”). we are not the publisher or author of user content and we may not screen all user content before it is posted. however, we reserve the right in our sole discretion to edit, redact, or delete user content at any time and for any reason. you agree that any user content you submit to the sites will not be unlawful, defamatory, or infringing on the privacy or intellectual property rights of others. you also agree (a) to be solely responsible for any damages resulting from any user content you submit, (b) that all user content you submit will be treated as non-proprietary and non-confidential, and (c) not to submit any user content that contains advertising or commercial solicitations. by submitting user content to us, you automatically grant us the royalty-free, perpetual, worldwide, irrevocable, non-exclusive right to use, publish, reproduce, license, sublicense, distribute, sell, perform, translate, and display user content (including any drawings, images, sounds, video recordings, or other data embedded in the user content and including adaptations and derivative works based on the user content) for any purpose and in any manner or medium (now existing or hereafter developed). disclaimer of warranties the sites may contain material that is offensive or otherwise objectionable, as well as material containing technical inaccuracies, typographical mistakes, and other errors. we disclaim any responsibility for any harm resulting from access or use of the sites. the sites and all site content are provided “as is” to the full extent permitted by law. this means that we do not warrant that the sites or the site content are (a) fit for any particular purpose; (b) uninterrupted or error-free; or (c) free of defamatory, offensive, or illegal material or defects such as viruses, malfunctions, or harmful components that could damage or allow unauthorized access to your computer, computer network, or mobile device. we expressly disclaim all warranties of any kind, express or implied including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, quiet enjoyment, fitness for a particular purpose or non-infringement. no information, whether oral or written, obtained by you from us or at or through the site shall create any warranty not expressly made herein. we make no representations or warranties that the site is appropriate or available for use in all geographic locations. limitation of liability neither we nor our officers, directors, members, employees, agents, or representatives (or their respective successors and assigns) shall be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, or consequential damages resulting from the use or the inability to use the site or site content including, but not limited to, (a) damages caused by defamatory, offensive, or illegal material, (b) damages caused by viruses, malfunctions, or harmful components accessed through the site, and (c) damages for lost profits, loss of data, or other intangibles even if foreseeable or if we have been advised of the possibility of such damages. some jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion of implied warranties or limitation of liability for incidental or consequential damages. therefore, the exclusions set forth above may not apply to you. indemnification you agree to indemnify, hold harmless, and release us and our respective officers, directors, members, employees, agents, representatives (and their respective successors and assigns) from and against any and all claims, damages, costs, and expenses including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney’s fees arising from or related to your access, use, or misuse of the sites. links the sites may include links to other websites that are not owned or operated by us. we do not have any control over these third party websites and are not responsible for any information, functionality, or content accessed through such websites. by linking to third party websites, we do not represent or imply that we endorse such websites. you are responsible for taking the necessary precautions to protect yourself and your computer from viruses, worms, and other harmful or destructive content that may be accessible through such web sites. we disclaim any responsibility for any harm resulting from your use of third party websites. changes we reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to modify or replace any part of the agreement. it is your responsibility to check the agreement periodically for changes. we may also, at any time and for any reason in our sole discretion, modify or discontinue the sites or site content or terminate or restrict your access to the sites. miscellaneous this agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the state of new york without regard to conflict/choice of law principles. if any provision of this agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severed from the remainder of the agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect. no waiver of any breach or default of the agreement shall be deemed to be a waiver of any preceding or subsequent breach or default. the section headings used in the agreement are for convenience only. effective: november 17, 2017 share this: twitter facebook get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.