managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods 0 sign in english русский deutsch français română български español português italiano polski slovenský українська türkçe 日本語 हिंदी bahasa indonesia 简体中文 繁體中文 tiếng việt فارسی managed dns premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover private dns servers services secondary dns reverse dns managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns dynamic dns domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers partnership affiliate program resellers api knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module payment methods terms of service the terms and conditions below govern the relationship between cloudns.net (herein referred to as "the company") and any user ("the user", "the customer") of cloudns.net website ("the website"). by accessing and using any part of the website, the user agrees to be bound and abide by the terms and conditions in this section. in the event that the user does not agree to all or part of the terms and conditions described below, he/she shall not access or use the website in any way. the user’s agreement to be bound by these terms is acknowledged by his/her use of the website which includes, but is not limited to visiting the website, using its internal and external links for search of information, ordering any of the company services, contacting the company representatives, support services and/or any software made available to the user by the company. the company reserves the right to modify or revise the terms of use by updating this section. the user is solely responsible for staying up to date with these conditions by visiting the terms of use section of the website regularly and checking for any updates. copyright notice the content of this website (including, but not limited to all included text, photographs, graphics, illustrations, video, sound, and other material) is copyright © 2010, cloudns.net. all rights reserved. any content of the website that is not the creation or product of the company’s employees is published for descriptive purpose only. such content is a registered trademark of its respective owners, who have granted the right for its use either publicly or directly to the company. privacy policy the company's privacy policy is incorporated herein by reference and governs all collection, storage and usage of personal data. by accepting the terms and conditions in this section, the user expressly consents to the use and disclosure of his/her personally identifiable and other information as described in the privacy policy. the company website information use the user can use the information posted at the company’s website for informational purpose only. the information at the website cannot be used in any other way without a prior written consent from the company. third parties websites use the company has no liability or responsibility for the accuracy or suitability of content on a third party website that can be reached by using the company website. the user’s use of any content from a third party website, including but not limited to, information, downloadable files, etc. is at the user’s own risk. linked websites the user may find links to other websites on the company’s website. the published links are for informational purposes only. the company does not control or endorse any information, products, or services offered at the linked websites. the user acknowledges that the access or use of any of the linked websites is at the user’s own risk and the company shall not be liable for any loss or damage arising thereof. disclaimer the company’s services, all information contained in the website and its contents are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. the company does not provide warranties or representations of any kind. the company disclaims all such representations and warranties, either express or implied, including, but not limited to, warranties of title, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or non infringement. the company makes no warranties that the website or its contents will be complete, accurate, uninterrupted, secure, or error free. all information on the website is subject to change without notice. indemnification the user agrees to indemnify and hold the company harmless from and against any claims, losses, damages, liabilities, costs or expenses, attorneys’ and courts’ fees included, arising or related to the use of the website or any violation of the terms and conditions, described herein. governing law the user agrees that this agreement shall be governed in all respects by the laws and courts of the republic of bulgaria. the user agrees that any claim or dispute the user may have against cloudns.net must be resolved by a court located in the republic of bulgaria without reference to any governing law rules that would result in the application of the substantive law of any other jurisdiction; the user hereby waives all rights to any kind of legal actions in any other court and/or under any other law except those of the republic of bulgaria; the user agrees to submit to the personal jurisdiction of the courts located within the republic of bulgaria for the purpose of litigating all such claims or disputes. in any legal action, the prevailing party will be entitled to recover all legal expenses incurred in connection with the action, including but not limited to its costs, both taxable and non-taxable, and reasonable attorney's fees. these terms are effective unless and until terminated by the company. refund policy cloudns.net offers an unconditional 7 days money-back guarantee on hosting services. if the customer wishes to cancel a hosting account within the initial 7-day period for any reason, he/she has to notify cloudns.net via the ticket at menu "support", and the payment will be refunded with paypal system with $1 transfer fee. payment subscriptions & billing agreements cloudns supports different options for payment subscriptions and billing agreements with credit cards and paypal. billing agreements pre-authorized billing agreements (default payment methods) can be created from profile » payment methods. pre-authorized billing agreements (default payment methods) can be canceled anytime without prior notice from profile » payment methods. paypal pre-authorized billing agreements can be canceled from the paypal web site. more details about this option can be seen here. subscriptions each service in cloudns can be subscribed for automatic renewals. this can be done from the page where the service is bought or renewed. subscriptions for automatic renewals can be managed and canceled anytime before the expiration of the service without prior notice from profile » manage subscriptions. dns hosting and domain name rules 1. customer promises not to use the site or the service for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by these terms of service. customer agrees to abide by all applicable local, state, national and international laws and regulations. 2. by way of example, and not as a limitation, customer agrees not to (or permit others to): (a) take any action or (b) upload, download, post, submit or otherwise distribute or facilitate distribution of any customer submissions ("submissions") such as, without limitation, comments, text, communications, software, images, sounds, data or other materials or information) using any communications service or other service available on or through the service, that: infringes any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, right of publicity or other right of any other person or entity; is unlawful, threatening, abusive, harassing, defamatory, libelous, deceptive, fraudulent, invasive of another's privacy, tortuous, obscene, offensive, profane or which otherwise violates the terms of service; constitutes unauthorized or unsolicited advertising, junk or bulk e-mail ("spamming"); imposes an unreasonable or disproportionately (in the sole judgment of cloudns.net) large load on cloudns.net computing, storage or communications infrastructure, or attempts to gain unauthorized access to the service, other accounts, computer systems or networks connected to the service, through password mining or otherwise; contains software viruses or any other computer codes, files, or programs that are designed or intended to disrupt, damage, limit or interfere with the proper function of any software, hardware, or telecommunications equipment or to damage or obtain unauthorized access to any system, data or other information of cloudns.net or any third party; or impersonates any person or entity, including, without limitation, any employee or representative of cloudns.net. customer will not use any robot, spider, scraper or other automated means to access the service for any purpose without cloudns.net express written permission. additionally, customer will not: (i) interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the service or any activities conducted on the service; or (ii) bypass any measures cloudns.net may use to prevent or restrict access to the service. customer shall not (and customer shall not permit others to), directly or indirectly, modify, translate, decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer any part of the service or any content available through the site (except to the limited extent applicable laws specifically prohibit such restriction); or copy, rent, lease, distribute, or otherwise transfer any or the rights that customer receives hereunder. in addition, customer shall not remove any proprietary notices or labels. customer may not harvest or collect information, including, without limitation, screen names, about other members or users of the service. the use of any information learned through the service or while in the site is limited to the express purposes set forth in these terms of service; all other uses, including, without limitation, sending unsolicited bulk e-mail, are strictly prohibited. cloudns.net may remove any content and submissions at any time for any reason (including, but not limited to, upon receipt of claims or allegations from third parties or authorities relating to such content or submissions). customer may not harvest or collect information, including, without limitation, screen names, about other members or users of the site or the service. the use of any information learned through the service or while in the site is limited to the express purposes set forth in these terms of service; all other uses, including, without limitation, sending unsolicited bulk e-mail, are strictly prohibited. cloudns.net may, at its sole discretion, immediately terminate customer's access to the site and/or the service should customer's conduct fail to conform strictly and terms or conditions of these terms of service, including, without limitation, with any provision of this section. 3. the customer agrees that his dns zones can be deleted, if they are inactive (there are no dns queries for the dns zone) for over 30 days, especially if he is using free dns hosting plan without prior notification. stored dns statistics premium users: yearly, monthly and daily dns statistics will be stored forever. hourly dns statistics will be stored for last 1 month. free users: yearly, monthly and daily dns statistics will be stored for last 1 year. hourly dns statistics will be not stored. additional domain names rules domain names do not have money back grace period. domain names can be deleted until 2 days after their registration. deletion fee is $3.00 per domain name. the difference between deletion fee and domain registration price will be refunded back to your account balance. if you want to delete a new registered domain name, please contact our support team from your control panel. restoration fee after expiration of renewal grace period: $85.00 usd specific domain rules: .au domain names rules/requirements .eu domain names rules/requirements .cn domain names rules/requirements company about us news contacts data centers feedback careers dns services premium dns ddos protected dns geodns dns failover reverse dns secondary dns dynamic dns dnssec enum dns zones services managed dns anycast dns enterprise dns private dns servers domain names ssl certificates ddos protected vps knowledgebase blog wiki features faq http api whmcs module hostbill module domain parking payment methods partnership affiliate program resellers api registrant educational materials registrant benefits and responsibilities whois social connection terms of service | privacy policy ©2020 cloudns all prices are final and include all required taxes. no other hidden charges! online - live chat cookies help us deliver our services. by using our services, you agree to our use of cookies. learn more okay