login cheezburger search latest posts shop the cheezburger store cheezburger channels i can has fail blog memebase geek universe cheezcake loquillo know your meme cheezburger i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your memekym popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums download cheezburger app for free android app on google play available in the app store toggle navigation home shop the cheezburger store login submit terms of service and use last updated: august 5, 2014 1. your acceptance a. these terms of service (“terms of service”) are a binding legal agreement between you and cheezburger, inc. (“cheezburger”), regarding your use of any sites owned by cheezburger (including but not limited to this website, any of the other cheezburger network websites), and any products or services available from the websites (collectively, the “websites”). please read these terms of service carefully. by accessing or using the websites, you signify your agreement to (1) these terms of service, and (2) the community guidelines incorporated here by reference. if you do not agree to any of these terms or the community guidelines, please do not use the websites. b. although we may attempt to notify you when major changes are made to these terms of service, you should periodically review the most up-to-date version of the terms of service. cheezburger, in its sole discretion, may modify or revise these terms of service and policies at any time, and you agree to be bound by such modifications or revisions. nothing in this agreement shall be deemed to confer any third-party rights or benefits. 2. the websites a. these terms of service apply to all users of the websites, including users who are also contributors of content, information, and other materials or services on the websites. b. the websites may contain links to third party websites that are not owned or controlled by cheezburger. cheezburger has no control over, and assumes no responsibility for, the content, privacy policies, or practices of any third party websites. in addition, cheezburger will not and cannot censor or edit the content of any third-party site. by using the websites, you expressly relieve cheezburger from any and all liability arising from your use of any third-party website. 3. general use of the websites — permissions and restrictions cheezburger hereby grants you a revocable, non-transferable, and non-exclusive permission to access and use the websites as set forth in these terms of service, provided that: a. you agree not to distribute in any medium any part of the websites, including but not limited to content and user submissions (each as defined below), without cheezburger’s prior written authorization. b. you agree not to alter or modify any part of the websites, including but not limited to cheezburger’s technologies. c. you agree not to access user submissions (defined below) or content through any technology or means other than any as authorized by this terms of service or a written agreement between you and cheezburger. d. you agree not to use the websites for any commercial use without the prior written authorization of cheezburger. prohibited commercial uses include, but are not limited to, any of the following actions taken without cheezburger’s express approval: 1. sale of access to the websites, content or services via another website or medium (such as a mobile application); 2. use of the websites, content or services for the purpose of gaining advertising or subscription revenue; 3. the sale of advertising, on the websites or any third-party website, targeted to the content of specific user submissions or the content; 4. any use of the websites, content, user submissions or services that cheezburger finds, in its sole discretion, has the effect of competing with or displacing the market for the websites, content or user submissions. e. you agree not to use or launch any automated system, including without limitation, “robots,” “spiders,” or “offline readers,” that accesses the websites in a manner that sends more request messages to the cheezburger servers in a given period of time than a human can reasonably produce in the same period by using a conventional on-line web browser. notwithstanding the foregoing, cheezburger grants the operators of public search engines permission to use spiders to copy materials from the websites for the sole purpose of and solely to the extent necessary for creating publicly available searchable indices of the materials, but not caches or archives of such materials. cheezburger reserves the right to revoke these exceptions either generally or in specific cases. you agree not to collect or harvest any personally identifiable information from the websites, nor to use the communication systems provided by the websites for any commercial solicitation purposes. you agree not to solicit, for commercial purposes, any users of the websites with respect to their user submissions. f. you will otherwise comply with the terms and conditions of these terms of service, community guidelines, and all applicable local, national, and international laws and regulations. g. you agree not to impersonate any person or organization. h. you agree not to harass any other user. i. cheezburger reserves the right to discontinue any aspect of the websites or services at any time. 4. your use of content on the website in addition to the general restrictions above, the following restrictions and conditions apply specifically to your use of content on the websites. a. the content on the websites, except all user submissions, including without limitation, the text, software, scripts, graphics, photos, sounds, music, pictures, interactive features and the like (“content”) and the trademarks, service marks and logos contained therein (“marks”), are owned by or licensed to cheezburger, subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights under the law. content on the websites is provided to you as is for your information and personal use only and may not be downloaded, copied, reproduced, distributed, transmitted, broadcast, displayed, sold, licensed, or otherwise exploited for any other purposes whatsoever without the prior written consent of the respective owners. cheezburger reserves all rights not expressly granted in and to the websites and the content. b. you may access user submissions solely: 1. for your information and personal use in accordance with these terms of service; and 2. as intended through the normal functionality of the websites. c. user comments (as defined below) are made available to you for your information and personal use solely as intended through the normal functionality of the websites. user comments are made available “as is,” and may not be used, copied, reproduced, distributed, transmitted, broadcast, displayed, sold, licensed, downloaded, or otherwise exploited in any manner not intended by the normal functionality of the website or otherwise as expressly authorized under this agreement. d. you may access content, user submissions and other content only as permitted under this agreement. cheezburger reserves all rights not expressly granted in and to the content and the websites. e. you agree to not use, copy, reproduce, transmit, broadcast, sell, license, download, or otherwise exploit any of the content other than as expressly permitted herein, including any use, copying, or distribution of user submissions of third parties obtained through the websites for any commercial purposes. f. you agree not to circumvent, disable or otherwise interfere with security-related features of the websites or features that prevent or restrict use or copying of any content or enforce limitations on use of the websites or the content therein. g. you understand that when using the websites, you will be exposed to user submissions from a variety of sources, and that cheezburger is not responsible for the accuracy, usefulness, safety, or intellectual property rights of or relating to such user submissions. you further understand and acknowledge that you may be exposed to user submissions that are inaccurate, offensive, indecent, or objectionable, and you agree to waive, and hereby do waive, any legal or equitable rights or remedies you have or may have against cheezburger with respect thereto, and agree to indemnify and hold cheezburger, its owners, operators, affiliates, and/or licensors, harmless to the fullest extent allowed by law regarding all matters related to your use of the websites. h. api, rss feed and “add to your blog” functionality. from time to time cheezburger may allow you to access and display content via an application protocol interface (api), rss feed, linking mechanism (e.g., “add to your blog”), or other means (“permitted distribution mechanisms”). all such usage must comply with this terms of service and any applicable permitted distribution mechanisms terms posted by cheezburger. for example, you may not aggregate the content on your website or application, whether through an rss feed or otherwise, and any such aggregation is an express violation of the terms of service. similarly, any commercial exploitation of the content by you (without the express written or email authorization of cheezburger) is a violation of the terms of service. you may access the content through the api, you may do so with the prior written or email consent of cheezburger, and by using the cheezburger api you agree to the api terms of service located at our api terms of service page. you may only use the permitted distribution mechanisms in connection with a non-commercial application or website unless otherwise permitted by cheezburger in writing. by way of example, your application must be free of charge, and you may not sell or monetize your application or website in any manner, including, but not limited to, charging end users to obtain your application or displaying advertisements via your application or website or banner advertisements on or around the content. cheezburger may revoke your right to use any permitted distribution mechanism in its sole discretion. cheezburger may limit the nature and amount of content you access via a permitted distribution mechanism in its sole discretion. 5. your user submissions and conduct a. you may submit content (e.g., photographs, graphics, videos) and/or user comments (“user comments”) to cheezburger. user submitted content and user comments are collectively referred to as “user submissions”. you understand that whether or not such user submissions are published, cheezburger does not guarantee any confidentiality with respect to any user submissions. b. you shall be solely responsible for your own user submissions and the consequences of posting or publishing them. in connection with user submissions, you affirm, represent, and/or warrant that: you own or have all the necessary licenses, rights, consents, and permissions to use and authorize cheezburger to use all patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other intellectual property or proprietary rights in and to any and all user submissions to enable inclusion and use of the user submissions in the manner contemplated by the websites and these terms of service. c. for clarity, you retain ownership of all copyrights you may have in your user submissions. however, by submitting user submissions to cheezburger, you hereby grant cheezburger a perpetual, irrevocable, worldwide, non-exclusive, royalty-free, sublicenseable and transferable license to use, adapt, modify, sell, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, and perform the user submissions (in whole or in part), for any purpose whatsoever, and to incorporate user submissions in other works in any form, media, or technology now known or later developed. the foregoing license shall be broadly construed, and shall include, without limitation the right to: (i) promote and redistribute part or all of the user submissions (and derivative works thereof) in any media formats and through any media channels, (ii) incorporate the user submissions on tangible or intangible products (e.g., cups, clothing) for resale or otherwise, and (iii) use the user submissions for promotional purposes, whether to promote the websites, other cheezburger products or services, or third party products or services. by way of clarification and not limitation, you acknowledge that you will not be entitled to any royalties or any other payment as a result of any efforts by cheezburger to exploit any user submissions. by way of further clarification, cheezburger may freely sublicense the rights that you grant it in this section to a third party. to the extent necessary for cheezburger to exercise its rights under the foregoing license, you hereby grant cheezburger a perpetual, royalty-free and irrevocable license to exploit any personality, publicity, or privacy rights in and to the user submissions and in your likeness as contained therein. you also hereby grant each user of the website a non-exclusive license to access your user submissions through the websites, and to use, reproduce, distribute, display and perform such user submissions as permitted through the functionality of the websites and under these terms of service. d. in connection with user submissions, you further agree that you will not submit material that is copyrighted, protected by trade secret or otherwise subject to third party proprietary rights, including privacy, personality and publicity rights, unless you are the owner of such rights or have permission from their rightful owner to post the material and to grant cheezburger all of the license rights granted herein. e. you agree that your conduct on the website will comport with the community guidelines which may be updated from time to time. f. cheezburger does not endorse any user submission or any opinion, recommendation, or advice expressed therein, and cheezburger expressly disclaims any and all liability in connection with user submissions. cheezburger does not permit copyright infringing activities and infringement of intellectual property rights on its website, and cheezburger will remove all content and user submissions if properly notified in a manner consistent with law and cheezburger’s copyright infringement notification policy that such content or user submission infringes on another’s intellectual property rights. cheezburger reserves the right to remove content and user submissions without prior notice. g. if you provide feedback to us regarding the websites, content, or user submissions (“feedback”), you authorize us to use that feedback without restriction and without payment to you. accordingly, you hereby grant to us perpetual and irrevocable license to use the feedback for any purpose. 6. termination policy a. you may terminate your use of the website at any time. cheezburger may suspend or terminate your access to the websites or terminate these terms of service, at any time, for any reason. if cheezburger suspects that you have violated any provision of these terms of service, cheezburger may also seek any other available legal remedy. your rights under these terms of service will terminate automatically if you breach any part of these terms of service. you remain solely liable for all obligations related to use of the websites, even after you have stopped using the websites. b. cheezburger reserves the right to decide whether content or a user submission is appropriate and complies with these terms of service for violations other than copyright infringement and violations of intellectual property law, such as, but not limited to, laws regulating obscene or defamatory material. cheezburger may remove such user submissions and/or terminate a user’s access for uploading such material in violation of these terms of service at any time, without prior notice and at its sole discretion. 7. copyright infringement a. if you are a copyright owner or an agent thereof and believe that any user submission or other content infringes upon your copyrights, you may submit a notification pursuant to the digital millennium copyright act (“dmca”) by providing our copyright agent with the following information in writing (see 17 u.s.c 512(c)(3) for further detail): 1. a physical or electronic signature of a person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed; 2. identification of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site; 3. identification of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity and that is to be removed or access to which is to be disabled and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material; 4. information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact you, such as an address, telephone number, and, if available, an electronic mail; 5. a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; and 6. a statement that the information in the notification is accurate, and under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed. cheezburger’s designated copyright agent to receive notifications of claimed infringement is: attention: copyright agent literally media ltd 146 n canal street seattle, wa 98103 you acknowledge that if you fail to comply with all of the requirements of this section 8(a) your dmca notice may not be valid. b. counter-notice. if you believe that your user submission that was removed (or to which access was disabled) is not infringing, or that you have the authorization from the copyright owner, the copyright owner’s agent, or pursuant to the law, to post and use the content in your user submission, you may send a counter-notice containing the following information to the copyright agent: 1. your physical or electronic signature; 2. identification of the content that has been removed or to which access has been disabled and the location at which the content appeared before it was removed or disabled; 3. a statement that you have a good faith belief that the content was removed or disabled as a result of mistake or a misidentification of the content; and 4. your name, address, telephone number, and e-mail address, a statement that you consent to the jurisdiction of the federal court in seattle, washington and a statement that you will accept service of process from the person who provided notification of the alleged infringement. if a counter-notice is received by the copyright agent, cheezburger may send a copy of the counter-notice to the original complaining party informing that person that it may replace the removed content or cease disabling it in 10 business days. unless the copyright owner files an action seeking a court order against the content provider, member or user, the removed content may be replaced, or access to it restored, in 10 to 14 business days or more after receipt of the counter-notice, at cheezburger’s sole discretion. c. repeat infringers. cheezburger will terminate the access privileges of any user whom it deems, in its sole authority, has repeatedly infringed the copyright rights of others. 8. warranty disclaimer you agree that your use of the websites or the products and services available therein shall be at your sole risk. the websites, content, user submissions, and any products or services available on the websites are provided on an “as is” and “as available” basis. to the fullest extent permitted by law, and cheezburger, its managers, members, employees, licensors, suppliers, and agents disclaim all warranties, express or implied, in connection with the websites and your use thereof, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. cheezburger makes no warranties or representations about the accuracy or completeness of the websites’ content or the content of any sites linked to these websites and assumes no liability or responsibility for any (i) errors, mistakes, or inaccuracies of content, (ii) personal injury or property damage, of any nature whatsoever, resulting from your access to and use of the websites and the products and services available therein, (iii) any unauthorized access to or use of our secure servers and/or any and all personal information and/or financial information stored therein, (iv) any interruption or cessation of transmission to or from the websites, (iv) any bugs, viruses, trojan horses, or the like which may be transmitted to or through our websites by any third party, and/or (v) any errors or omissions in any content or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of the use of any content posted, emailed, transmitted, or otherwise made available via the websites. cheezburger does not warrant, endorse, guarantee, or assume responsibility for any product or service advertised or offered by a third party through the or any hyperlinked websites or featured in any banner or other advertising, and cheezburger will not be a party to or in any way be responsible for monitoring any transaction between you and third-party providers of products or services. as with the purchase of a product or service through any medium or in any environment, you should use your best judgment and exercise caution where appropriate. 9. limitation of liability in no event shall cheezburger, its managers, members, employees, licensors, suppliers, or agents, be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, or consequential damages whatsoever resulting from your access to or use of the websites, content, user submissions or the products and services available on the websites. because some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. the maximum total liability of cheezburger, its managers, members, employees, licensors, suppliers, or agents to you for any claim under these terms of service, whether in contract, tort, or otherwise, is $25.00. each provision of this agreement that provides for a limitation of liability, disclaimer of warranties, or exclusion of damages is to allocate the risks under this agreement between the parties. this allocation is an essential element of the basis of the bargain between the parties. each of these provisions is severable and independent of all other provisions of this agreement. the limitations in this section 9 will apply even if any limited remedy fails of its essential purpose. the websites are controlled and offered by cheezburger from its facilities in the united states of america. cheezburger makes no representations that the websites are appropriate or available for use in other locations. those who access or use the websites from other jurisdictions do so at their own volition and are responsible for compliance with their local law. 10. indemnity you agree to defend, indemnify and hold harmless cheezburger, its managers, members, employees and agents, from and against any and all claims, damages, obligations, losses, liabilities, costs or debt, and expenses (including but not limited to attorney’s fees) arising from: (i) your use of and access to the websites; (ii) your violation of any term of these terms of service; (iii) your violation of any third party rights, including without limitation any copyright, property, or privacy right; or (iv) any claim that one of your user submissions caused damage to a third party or to cheezburger. this defense and indemnification obligation will survive these terms of service and your termination of use of the websites. 11. privacy cheezburger may collect registration and other information about you through the websites. cheezburger’s collection, use, and disclosure of this information are governed by the cheezburger privacy policy available at https://www.cheezburger.com/privacy. 12. paid products and services some of our websites allow you to purchase products and service from cheezburger or its suppliers. you will be asked to provide billing information (e.g., your credit card information) and to authorize a charge to your credit card for the applicable fees, taxes and shipping, as applicable. generally, charges associated with your purchase of cheezburger’s products and services will appear on your credit card bill as cheezburger network. you represent and warrant that you have the right and authority to charge payment to the account associated with the credit card information you submit. if you have any questions about a purchase you made on our websites and the corresponding credit card charges, please contact us at info@literally.media. all sales are subject to cheezburger’s terms of sale which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. 13. ability to accept terms of service you affirm that you are either more than 18 years of age, or an emancipated minor, or possess the consent of your legal parent or guardian, and are fully able and competent to enter into the terms, conditions, obligations, affirmations, representations, and warranties set forth in these terms of service, and to abide by and comply with these terms of service. in any case, you affirm that you are over the age of 13, as the websites are not intended for children under 13. if you are under 13 years of age, then please do not use the websites. there are lots of other great web sites for you. talk to your parents about what sites are appropriate for you. 14. assignment these terms of service, and any rights and licenses granted hereunder, may not be transferred or assigned by you, but may be assigned by cheezburger without restriction. 15. general by using the websites, you consent to receiving electronic communications from cheezburger. these communications will include notices about your account and information concerning or related to the websites and/or cheezburger products and services. you agree that any notice, agreement, disclosure or other communication that we send to you electronically will satisfy any legal communication requirements, including that such communications be in writing. 16. applicable law these terms of service shall be governed by the internal substantive laws of the state of washington, without respect to its conflict of laws principles. please read the following section carefully. it contains provisions that govern how claims you and we have against each other are resolved. section 17 contains a binding arbitration clause and class action waiver that requires you to submit claims you have against us to binding and final arbitration and limits your right to seek relief by jury trial or class action. 17. agreement to arbitrate this section applies to any dispute except it doesn’t include a dispute relating to claims for injunctive or equitable relief regarding the enforcement or validity of your or cheezburger’s intellectual property rights. the term “dispute” means any dispute, action, or other controversy between you and cheezburger concerning the websites or this agreement, whether in contract, warranty, tort, statute, regulation, ordinance, or any other legal or equitable basis. “dispute” will be given the broadest possible meaning allowable under law. notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary herein, neither you or cheezburger are required to resolve claims in accordance with this section 17 with respect to disputes arising from a wet signature written agreement between you and cheezburger which was signed by an authorized signatory of each party (for purposes of this exception only, a “click-wrap” or “browse-wrap” agreement shall not be construed as a written agreement). 17.1 notice of dispute in the event of a dispute, you or cheezburger must give the other a notice of dispute, which is a written statement that sets forth the name, address, and contact information of the party giving it, the facts giving rise to the dispute, and the relief requested. you must send any notice of dispute by u.s. mail to: cheezburger inc. at xxxxx,wa xxxxx or to xxxx@cheezburger.com. cheezburger will send any notice of dispute to you by u.s. mail to your address if we have it, or otherwise to your email address. you and cheezburger will attempt to resolve any dispute through informal negotiation within sixty (60) days from the date the notice of dispute is sent. after sixty (60) days, you or cheezburger may commence arbitration. 17.2. small claims court you may also litigate any dispute in small claims court in your county of residence or king county, washington, if the dispute meets all requirements to be heard in the small claims court. you may litigate in small claims court whether or not you negotiated informally first. 17.3. binding arbitration if you and cheezburger don’t resolve any dispute by informal negotiation or in small claims court, any other effort to resolve the dispute will be conducted exclusively by binding arbitration as described in this section. you are giving up the right to litigate (or participate in as a party or class member) all disputes in court before a judge or jury. the dispute shall be settled by binding arbitration in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the american arbitration association. the arbitration will be conducted in seattle, washington, and judgment on the arbitration award may be entered into any court of competent jurisdiction. the award of the arbitrator will be final and binding upon the parties without appeal or review except as permitted by washington law. either party may seek any interim or preliminary injunctive relief from any court of competent jurisdiction, as necessary to protect the party’s rights or property pending the completion of arbitration. 17.4. prohibition of class and representative actions and non-individual actions you and cheezburger agree that either may bring claims against the other only on an individual basis and not as part of any purported class or representative action or proceeding unless both you and cheezburger agree otherwise. the arbitrator may not consolidate or join more than one person’s or party’s claims and may not preside over any form of a consolidated, representative or class proceeding. also the arbitrator may award relief (including monetary, injunctive and declaratory relief) only in favor of the individual party seeking relief and only to the extent necessary to provide relief necessitated by that party’s claim(s). any relief awarded cannot affect other cheezburger users. 17.5 future changes to the arbitration agreement notwithstanding any provision in the terms of service to the contrary, you and we agree that if we make any change to the agreement to arbitrate (other than a change of any notice address or website link provided herein) in the future, that change shall not apply to any claim of which you provided cheezburger with written notice prior to the effective date of the change. moreover, if we seek to terminate the agreement to arbitrate as included in the terms of service, any such termination shall not be effective until 30 days after the version of the agreement to arbitrate is posted to https://www.cheezburger.com and shall not be effective as to any claim of which you provided cheezburger with written notice prior to the date of termination. 18. severability these terms of service, together with any other legal notices published by cheezburger on the websites, shall constitute the entire agreement between you and cheezburger concerning the websites. if any provision of these terms of service is deemed invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the invalidity of such provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of these terms of service, which shall remain in full force and effect. no waiver of any term of this these terms of service shall be deemed a further or continuing waiver of such term or any other term, and cheezburger’s failure to assert any right or provision under these terms of service shall not constitute a waiver of such right or provision. cheezburger reserves the right to amend these terms of service at any time and without notice, and it is your responsibility to review these terms of service for any changes. your use of the websites following any amendment of these terms of service will signify your assent to and acceptance of its revised terms. you and cheezburger agree that any cause of action arising out of or related to the websites must commence within one (1) year after the cause of action accrues. otherwise, such cause of action is permanently barred. 19. contacting cheezburger if you have any questions or concerns about these terms of service or the websites, please send us a thorough description by email to info@literally.media have an idea or a criticism? we want to hear from you: contactus@cheezburger.com channels i can has i can has cheezburger? animal comedy animal gifs cat meme of the decade cats n' kittens daily squee doggos n' puppers i has a hotdog lolcats fail blog fail blog after 12 autocowrecks dating fails fail nation failbook monday thru friday music parenting poorly dressed school of fail there, i fixed it ugliest tattoos win! memebase memebase americana art of trolling cringe photobombs picture is unrelated politics puns rage comics señor gif totally looks like very demotivational video games web comics geek universe geek universe cartoons & anime game of thrones my little brony pokémemes pokémon go! superheroes the walking dead video game coverage cheezcake cheezcake bossy diy hot life in style love & relationships parenting loquillo loquillo animales bromas curiosidades deportes gifs medios memes videojuegos know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums know your meme popular memes all memes new events new sites new people new subcultures all images all videos forums join us facebook twitter pinterest get the app android app on google play available in the app store company cheezburger blog community guidelines advertising press support ©2020 cheezburger, inc. | terms | privacy | security | dmca policy | privacy settings find us on: facebook, twitter back to top