menumenu hike getting started >> trip planning hiking gear clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking >> hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources >> hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving >> scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving >> freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources >> diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking >> kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing >> kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup >> sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources >> kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 sup blogs climb climbing >> climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing >> skills & techniques climbing training bouldering ice climbing climbing resources >> climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking >> mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills mountain biking training bike touring >> bicycle touring fundamentals bicycle touring gear bicycle touring costs bicycle touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources >> cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 bicycle touring blogs top 25 mountain biking blogs snow skiing >> skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding >> snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources >> skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography >> fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography >> fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources >> outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs top 25 underwater photography blogs water surfing >> surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing >> sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources >> surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop blog community about about us privacy policy terms & conditions contact us jobs search menumenu hike getting started hiking basics hiking gear outdoor clothing camping food & water health & safety navigation hiking trails special hiking hiking with kids hiking with dogs women's hiking 50+ hiking training for hiking solo hiking ultralight hiking mountaineering hiking resources hiking community hiking gear - ebook outdoor clothing - video course beginner's guide to hiking hiking checklist friday fix gift guide for hikers top 25 hiking blogs dive scuba diving scuba diving fundamentals dive safety diving courses scuba wetsuits scuba gear scuba diving destinations special diving freediving spearfishing specialty diving women's diving liveaboard diving diving resources diving community gift guide for divers top 25 scuba diving blogs paddle kayaking kayaking fundamentals kayaking gear kayaking clothes transport & storage kayaking safety kayaking skills kayaking destinations kayak fishing kayak fishing fundamentals fishing kayaks kayak fishing accessories sup sup fundamentals sup boards sup accessories paddling resources kayaking community gift guide for kayakers top 25 kayaking blogs top 25 kayak fishing blogs top 25 stand up paddleboarding blogs climb climbing climbing fundamentals climbing clothing climbing gear climbing safety more climbing climbing skills & techniques training for climbing bouldering ice climbing climbing resources climbing community gift guide for climbers top 25 climbing blogs cycle mountain biking mountain biking fundamentals mountain biking gear mountain biking clothing bike maintenance mountain biking skills training for mountain biking bike touring bike touring fundamentals bike touring gear bike touring costs bike touring destinations bikepacking fat biking cycling resources cycling community gift guide for mountain bikers top 25 mountain biking blogs top 25 bicycle touring blogs snow skiing skiing fundamentals skiing gear skiing clothing skiing skills skiing safety snowshoeing snowboarding snowboarding fundamentals snowboarding gear snowboarding clothing snowboarding safety snow resources skiing & snowboarding community gift guide for skiers & snowboarders top 25 skiing blogs top 25 snowboarding blogs photo outdoor photography fundamentals travel photography landscape photography wildlife photography underwater photography fundamentals uw cameras uw camera accessories photo resources outdoor photography community gift guide for photographers top 25 outdoor photography blogs water surfing surfing gear surfing clothing other boardsports kitesurfing sailing sailing fundamentals sailing clothing sailing gear water resources surfing community sailing community top 25 surfing blogs top 25 sailing blogs shop members terms & conditions agreement between user and theadventurejunkies.com welcome to theadventurejunkies.com. the theadventurejunkies.com website (the “site”) is comprised of various web pages operated by the adventure junkies llc (“the adventure junkies”). theadventurejunkies.com is offered to you conditioned on your acceptance without modification of the terms, conditions, and notices contained herein (the “terms”). your use of theadventurejunkies.com constitutes your agreement to all such terms. please read these terms carefully, and keep a copy of them for your reference. theadventurejunkies.com is a niche site. the purpose of the site is to provide information to help people getting into outdoor activities. privacy your use of theadventurejunkies.com is subject to the adventure junkies’s privacy policy. please review our privacy policy, which also governs the site and informs users of our data collection practices. electronic communications visiting theadventurejunkies.com or sending emails to the adventure junkies constitutes electronic communications. you consent to receive electronic communications and you agree that all agreements, notices, disclosures and other communications that we provide to you electronically, via email and on the site, satisfy any legal requirement that such communications be in writing. the adventure junkies does not knowingly collect, either online or offline, personal information from persons under the age of thirteen. if you are under 18, you may use theadventurejunkies.com only with permission of a parent or guardian. links to third party sites/third party services theadventurejunkies.com may contain links to other websites (“linked sites”). the linked sites are not under the control of the adventure junkies and the adventure junkies is not responsible for the contents of any linked site, including without limitation any link contained in a linked site, or any changes or updates to a linked site. the adventure junkies is providing these links to you only as a convenience, and the inclusion of any link does not imply endorsement by the adventure junkies of the site or any association with its operators. certain services made available via theadventurejunkies.com are delivered by third party sites and organizations. by using any product, service or functionality originating from the theadventurejunkies.com domain, you hereby acknowledge and consent that the adventure junkies may share such information and data with any third party with whom the adventure junkies has a contractual relationship to provide the requested product, service or functionality on behalf of theadventurejunkies.com users and customers. no unlawful or prohibited use/intellectual property you are granted a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable license to access and use theadventurejunkies.com strictly in accordance with these terms of use. as a condition of your use of the site, you warrant to the adventure junkies that you will not use the site for any purpose that is unlawful or prohibited by these terms. you may not use the site in any manner which could damage, disable, overburden, or impair the site or interfere with any other party’s use and enjoyment of the site. you may not obtain or attempt to obtain any materials or information through any means not intentionally made available or provided for through the site. all content included as part of the service, such as text, graphics, logos, images, as well as the compilation thereof, and any software used on the site, is the property of the adventure junkies or its suppliers and protected by copyright and other laws that protect intellectual property and proprietary rights. you agree to observe and abide by all copyright and other proprietary notices, legends or other restrictions contained in any such content and will not make any changes thereto. you will not modify, publish, transmit, reverse engineer, participate in the transfer or sale, create derivative works, or in any way exploit any of the content, in whole or in part, found on the site. the adventure junkies content is not for resale. your use of the site does not entitle you to make any unauthorized use of any protected content, and in particular you will not delete or alter any proprietary rights or attribution notices in any content. you will use protected content solely for your personal use, and will make no other use of the content without the express written permission of the adventure junkies and the copyright owner. you agree that you do not acquire any ownership rights in any protected content. we do not grant you any licenses, express or implied, to the intellectual property of the adventure junkies or our licensors except as expressly authorized by these terms. use of communication services the site may contain bulletin board services, chat areas, news groups, forums, communities, personal web pages, calendars, and/or other message or communication facilities designed to enable you to communicate with the public at large or with a group (collectively, “communication services”), you agree to use the communication services only to post, send and receive messages and material that are proper and related to the particular communication service. by way of example, and not as a limitation, you agree that when using a communication service, you will not: defame, abuse, harass, stalk, threaten or otherwise violate the legal rights (such as rights of privacy and publicity) of others; publish, post, upload, distribute or disseminate any inappropriate, profane, defamatory, infringing, obscene, indecent or unlawful topic, name, material or information; upload files that contain software or other material protected by intellectual property laws (or by rights of privacy of publicity) unless you own or control the rights thereto or have received all necessary consents; upload files that contain viruses, corrupted files, or any other similar software or programs that may damage the operation of another’s computer; advertise or offer to sell or buy any goods or services for any business purpose, unless such communication service specifically allows such messages; conduct or forward surveys, contests, pyramid schemes or chain letters; download any file posted by another user of a communication service that you know, or reasonably should know, cannot be legally distributed in such manner; falsify or delete any author attributions, legal or other proper notices or proprietary designations or labels of the origin or source of software or other material contained in a file that is uploaded, restrict or inhibit any other user from using and enjoying the communication services; violate any code of conduct or other guidelines which may be applicable for any particular communication service; harvest or otherwise collect information about others, including e-mail addresses, without their consent; violate any applicable laws or regulations. the adventure junkies has no obligation to monitor the communication services. however, the adventure junkies reserves the right to review materials posted to a communication service and to remove any materials in its sole discretion. the adventure junkies reserves the right to terminate your access to any or all of the communication services at any time without notice for any reason whatsoever. the adventure junkies reserves the right at all times to disclose any information as necessary to satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request, or to edit, refuse to post or to remove any information or materials, in whole or in part, in the adventure junkies’s sole discretion. always use caution when giving out any personally identifying information about yourself or your children in any communication service. the adventure junkies does not control or endorse the content, messages or information found in any communication service and, therefore, the adventure junkies specifically disclaims any liability with regard to the communication services and any actions resulting from your participation in any communication service. managers and hosts are not authorized the adventure junkies spokespersons, and their views do not necessarily reflect those of the adventure junkies. materials uploaded to a communication service may be subject to posted limitations on usage, reproduction and/or dissemination. you are responsible for adhering to such limitations if you upload the materials. materials provided to theadventurejunkies.com or posted on any the adventure junkies web page the adventure junkies does not claim ownership of the materials you provide to theadventurejunkies.com (including feedback and suggestions) or post, upload, input or submit to any the adventure junkies site or our associated services (collectively “submissions”). however, by posting, uploading, inputting, providing or submitting your submission you are granting the adventure junkies, our affiliated companies and necessary sublicensees permission to use your submission in connection with the operation of their internet businesses including, without limitation, the rights to: copy, distribute, transmit, publicly display, publicly perform, reproduce, edit, translate and reformat your submission; and to publish your name in connection with your submission. no compensation will be paid with respect to the use of your submission, as provided herein. the adventure junkies is under no obligation to post or use any submission you may provide and may remove any submission at any time in the adventure junkies’s sole discretion. by posting, uploading, inputting, providing or submitting your submission you warrant and represent that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to your submission as described in this section including, without limitation, all the rights necessary for you to provide, post, upload, input or submit the submissions. international users the service is controlled, operated and administered by the adventure junkies from our offices within the usa. if you access the service from a location outside the usa, you are responsible for compliance with all local laws. you agree that you will not use the the adventure junkies content accessed through theadventurejunkies.com in any country or in any manner prohibited by any applicable laws, restrictions or regulations. indemnification you agree to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the adventure junkies, its officers, directors, employees, agents and third parties, for any losses, costs, liabilities and expenses (including reasonable attorney’s fees) relating to or arising out of your use of or inability to use the site or services, any user postings made by you, your violation of any terms of this agreement or your violation of any rights of a third party, or your violation of any applicable laws, rules or regulations. the adventure junkies reserves the right, at its own cost, to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter otherwise subject to indemnification by you, in which event you will fully cooperate with the adventure junkies in asserting any available defenses. arbitration in the event the parties are not able to resolve any dispute between them arising out of or concerning these terms and conditions, or any provisions hereof, whether in contract, tort, or otherwise at law or in equity for damages or any other relief, then such dispute shall be resolved only by final and binding arbitration pursuant to the federal arbitration act, conducted by a single neutral arbitrator and administered by the american arbitration association, or a similar arbitration service selected by the parties, in a location mutually agreed upon by the parties. the arbitrators award shall be final, and judgment may be entered upon it in any court having jurisdiction. in the event that any legal or equitable action, proceeding or arbitration arises out of or concerns these terms and conditions, the prevailing party shall be entitled to recover its costs and reasonable attorney’s fees. the parties agree to arbitrate all disputes and claims in regards to these terms and conditions or any disputes arising as a result of these terms and conditions, whether directly or indirectly, including tort claims that are a result of these terms and conditions. the parties agree that the federal arbitration act governs the interpretation and enforcement of this provision. the entire dispute, including the scope and enforceability of this arbitration provision shall be determined by the arbitrator. this arbitration provision shall survive the termination of these terms and conditions. class action waiver any arbitration under these terms and conditions will take place on an individual basis; class arbitrations and class/representative/collective actions are not permitted. the parties agree that a party may bring claims against the other only in each’s individual capacity, and not as a plaintiff or class member in any putative class, collective and/ or representative proceeding, such as in the form of a private attorney general action against the other. further, unless both you and employer agree otherwise, the arbitrator may not consolidate more than one person’s claims, and may not otherwise preside over any form of a representative or class proceeding. liability disclaimer the information, software, products, and services included in or available through the site may include inaccuracies or typographical errors. changes are periodically added to the information herein. the adventure junkies llc and/or its suppliers may make improvements and/or changes in the site at any time. the adventure junkies llc and/or its suppliers make no representations about the suitability, reliability, availability, timeliness, and accuracy of the information, software, products, services and related graphics contained on the site for any purpose. to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, all such information, software, products, services and related graphics are provided “as is” without warranty or condition of any kind. the adventure junkies llc and/or its suppliers hereby disclaim all warranties and conditions with regard to this information, software, products, services and related graphics, including all implied warranties or conditions of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title and non-infringement. to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, in no event shall the adventure junkies llc and/or its suppliers be liable for any direct, indirect, punitive, incidental, special, consequential damages or any damages whatsoever including, without limitation, damages for loss of use, data or profits, arising out of or in any way connected with the use or performance of the site, with the delay or inability to use the site or related services, the provision of or failure to provide services, or for any information, software, products, services and related graphics obtained through the site, or otherwise arising out of the use of the site, whether based on contract, tort, negligence, strict liability or otherwise, even if the adventure junkies llc or any of its suppliers has been advised of the possibility of damages. because some states/jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for consequential or incidental damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. if you are dissatisfied with any portion of the site, or with any of these terms of use, your sole and exclusive remedy is to discontinue using the site. termination/access restriction the adventure junkies reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate your access to the site and the related services or any portion thereof at any time, without notice. to the maximum extent permitted by law, this agreement is governed by the laws of the state of wyoming and you hereby consent to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of courts in wyoming in all disputes arising out of or relating to the use of the site. use of the site is unauthorized in any jurisdiction that does not give effect to all provisions of these terms, including, without limitation, this section. you agree that no joint venture, partnership, employment, or agency relationship exists between you and the adventure junkies as a result of this agreement or use of the site. the adventure junkies’s performance of this agreement is subject to existing laws and legal process, and nothing contained in this agreement is in derogation of the adventure junkies’s right to comply with governmental, court and law enforcement requests or requirements relating to your use of the site or information provided to or gathered by the adventure junkies with respect to such use. if any part of this agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable pursuant to applicable law including, but not limited to, the warranty disclaimers and liability limitations set forth above, then the invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed superseded by a valid, enforceable provision that most closely matches the intent of the original provision and the remainder of the agreement shall continue in effect. unless otherwise specified herein, this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the user and the adventure junkies with respect to the site and it supersedes all prior or contemporaneous communications and proposals, whether electronic, oral or written, between the user and the adventure junkies with respect to the site. a printed version of this agreement and of any notice given in electronic form shall be admissible in judicial or administrative proceedings based upon or relating to this agreement to the same extent and subject to the same conditions as other business documents and records originally generated and maintained in printed form. it is the express wish to the parties that this agreement and all related documents be written in english. changes to terms the adventure junkies reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to change the terms under which theadventurejunkies.com is offered. the most current version of the terms will supersede all previous versions. the adventure junkies encourages you to periodically review the terms to stay informed of our updates. contact us the adventure junkies welcomes your questions or comments regarding the terms: the adventure junkies llc 1623 central avenue suite 18 cheyenne, wyoming 82001 email address: info@theadventurejunkies.com effective as of june 6, 2016 tweet pin share email flip 0 shares water activities scuba diving, spearfishing sea kayaking sup, kayak fishing underwater photo surfing, sailing land activities day hiking, backpacking mtb, bike touring rock climbing skiing, snowboarding outdoor photo © 2019 the adventure junkies | all rights reserved. about how do we review privacy policy terms contact jobs this website uses cookies to improve your experience. we'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.accept reject read more × privacy overview privacy overview