home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more terms of use the following terms of use and privacy policy are subject to change at any time and at the sole discretion of the site owner and operator. please visit the site regularly for updates. terms of use please read the following terms of use relating to your use of this site, and all the sites listed below under my brand, carefully. by using these sites, you agree to these terms of use. we reserve the right to modify these terms at any time, so please check this page periodically for changes. by using these sites after we post any changes to these terms, you agree to accept those changes, whether or not you have reviewed them or been notified about them. if at any time you choose not to accept these terms of use, please do not use this site or any of our sites. owners and collectors of information these terms of use apply to your use of all of the sites and services owned, hosted, or operated by michael hyatt & company, llc (collectively “we,” “us,” or “our”), including the following: michaelhyatt.com platformuniversity.com bestyearever.me getnoticedtheme.com getpublishedcourse.com freetofocus.com these terms of use also apply to any other site that we have owned or operated, do own and operate or may own or operate in the future including social media sites (collectively, the “sites”). unless we say otherwise, all references to the sites in these terms of use include all such sites. these terms of use do not apply to your use of unaffiliated sites to which any of the sites may link to or direct you to. if you have any questions about these terms of use you may contact us at: michael hyatt & company, llc p.o. box 1221 franklin, tn 37065 you may also email us. restrictions the contents of our sites are protected by copyright and trademark laws, and are the property of their owners. all information on the sites is copyrighted by michael hyatt or michael hyatt & company, llc. unless otherwise noted, you may access and use the information and materials within the sites for your personal use. you may not change, modify, delete, display, transmit, adapt, exploit, or copy for distribution or sale any information, material, trademark, or copyright on the sites. you must obtain written permission from us or any other entity who owns intellectual property on the sites before you may publish, distribute, display, or commercially exploit any material from the sites. by using the sites, you agree to abide by all copyright notices or other posted restrictions. links these terms of use apply only to our sites, and not to the sites of any other companies or organizations, including those we link to. we do not maintain, create, endorse, or take any responsibility for the contents, advertising, products or other materials made available through any other site, including those we link to. under no circumstances will we be held responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any loss or damage that is caused or alleged to have been caused to you in connection with your use of any content, goods or services available on any other site. submissions we welcome your comments about any of the sites. however, we will not review or consider any unsolicited creative submissions or suggestions for topics on our blogs, podcasts, seminars or within our newsletters or products. we hope you will understand that this policy is intended to avoid the possibility of future misunderstandings in the event that ideas developed by our staff might seem to be similar to the ideas submitted to us. accordingly, we must ask that you not send us any original creative ideas, suggestions or materials. if, despite our request, you send us any idea, suggestion or material (“submission”), it shall become our property. we will not be subject to any obligation of confidence for any submission, and we will not be liable for any use or disclosure of any submission. in the case that you submit something to us and it is unsolicited, we will exclusively own all rights to the submission worldwide, and we will be entitled to the unrestricted use of the submission for any purpose, without compensation or notification to the provider of the submission. given this fact, we ask that you refrain from submitting creative projects to us, particularly those that are confidential or personal to you. forums a “forum” means any blog comments, message board, chat room, user review forum or other interactive service appearing on any of the sites and includes both public boards and private forums. you must register in accordance with instructions that you will find on the sites in order to contribute to any forum. you may not post on any forum, or send to any other forum user or our staff, any material that is abusive, vulgar, threatening, harassing, libelous, defamatory, obscene, invades a person’s privacy, violates any intellectual or other property rights, or that would otherwise violate any law. you may not use any forum in a commercial manner. you may not post material that solicits funds, or that advertises or solicits goods or services. you may not post material known to be false. you may not post messages that contain stock touts. you may not post or transmit any information, software or other material that contains a virus or other harmful component. we are not responsible for material appearing in any forum on the sites, except for material signed by one of our identified representatives. we are not responsible for screening material posted by users for libel, obscenity, invasion of privacy, copyright or trademark infringement, accuracy, or for any other reason. we retain, however, the right to modify or remove messages or other material that we, in our sole discretion, consider infringing, offensive, abusive, defamatory, obscene, snarky, stale, or otherwise unacceptable. we also reserve the right to edit materials for any other reason. whether or not we modify or remove such material, users remain solely responsible for the content of their messages or postings. by posting on the sites, you grant (or warrant that the owner of such rights has expressly granted) us and/or relevant affiliated companies the worldwide, perpetual, nonexclusive right to use your questions, comments, and postings, in their original or edited form, in television programs, books, articles, commentaries, or in any other medium now known or later developed. you also warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the content you have posted and that the public posting and use of such content by us will not infringe the rights of any third party. additionally, you warrant that any “moral rights” in posted materials have been waived. you are not entitled to any compensation for any materials you may post on the sites. registration we may, at our discretion, suspend or terminate the registration of any forum user or general user who violates any of these terms of use of use, any of the forum member guidelines or for any other behavior that we in our discretion believe is inappropriate. disclaimers the information, services, products, claims, topics, and materials on our sites are provided “as is” and without warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied. we disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied, including but not limited to implied effectiveness of the ideas or strategies listed on this site as well as those that are provided in our products or to our participants at our events. the only exception is the guarantees of satisfaction and graduation that are clearly labeled guarantees within our sites. neither we nor any of our respective licensors or suppliers warrant that any functions contained in the sites will be uninterrupted or error-free, that defects will be corrected, or that the sites or the server that makes them available are free of viruses or other harmful components. neither we nor any of our respective licensors or suppliers warrant or make any representations regarding the use or the results of the use of the services, products, information or materials in this site in terms of their correctness, accuracy, reliability, or otherwise. you (and not we or any of our respective licensors or suppliers) assume the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair or correction to your system. applicable law may not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, so the above exclusion may not apply to you. we do not endorse, warrant or guarantee any writers, speakers, products or services offered on the sites or those we link to. we are not a party to, and do not monitor, any transaction between users and third-party providers of products or services. limitation of liability under no circumstances, including but not limited to negligence, will we or any of our licensors or suppliers be liable for any special or consequential damages that result from the use of, or the inability to use, the materials or information on the sites, or any products or services provided pursuant to the sites, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. applicable law may not allow the limitation or exclusion of liability or incidental or consequential damages (including but not limited to lost data), so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you. in no event shall the total liability to you by us or any of our licensors or suppliers for all damages, losses, and causes of action (whether in contract, tort, or otherwise) exceed the amount paid by you to us, if any, for accessing the sites. under no circumstances will we be held responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any loss or damage that is caused or alleged to have been caused to you in connection with your use of any advice, goods or services you receive from a guest speaker on our sites or at one of our events. we are also not responsible or liable for any loss or damage that is caused or alleged to have been caused to our guest blog posters or speakers in connection with the display of their photo, name, or biography posted on our sites or in our marketing materials. no professional advice the information contained in or made available through the sites (including but not limited to information contained on message boards, in text files, or in chats) cannot replace or substitute for the services of trained professionals in any field, including, but not limited to, financial, medical, psychological, or legal matters. in particular, you should regularly consult a doctor in all matters relating to physical or mental health, particularly concerning any symptoms that may require diagnosis or medical attention. we and our licensors or suppliers make no representations or warranties concerning any treatment, action, or application of medication or preparation by any person following the information offered or provided within or through the sites. neither we nor our partners, or any of their affiliates, will be liable for any direct, indirect, consequential, special, exemplary or other damages that may result, including but not limited to economic loss, injury, illness or death. you alone are responsible and accountable for your decisions, actions and results in life, and by your use of the sites, you agree not to attempt to hold us liable for any such decisions, actions or results, at any time, under any circumstance. earnings disclaimer all products and services by our company are for educational and informational purposes only. nothing on this page, any of our websites, or any of our content or curriculum is a promise or guarantee of results or future earnings, and we do not offer any legal, medical, tax or other professional advice. any financial numbers referenced here, or on any of our sites, are illustrative of concepts only and should not be considered average earnings, exact earnings, or promises for actual or future performance. making decisions based on any information presented in our products, events, services, or web site, should be done only with the knowledge that you could experience risk or losses just like any entrepreneurial endeavor. use caution and always consult your accountant, lawyer or professional advisor before acting on this or any information related to a lifestyle change or your business or finances. you alone are responsible and accountable for your decisions, actions and results in life, and by your registration here you agree not to attempt to hold us liable for your decisions, actions or results, at any time, under any circumstance. parental permission the sites are not directed to children under the age of 13 and we will not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13. we strongly recommend that parents participate in their children’s exploration of the internet and any online services and use their browser’s parental controls to limit the areas of the internet to which their children have access. we may, at our discretion, require users under 18 to obtain the consent of a parent or guardian to view certain content, and we may limit access to certain content to users above a specified age. you agree to abide by any such restrictions, and not to help anyone avoid these restrictions. confidentiality and non-compete users of our sites hereby understand that the tools, processes, strategies, materials and information presented on our sites are copyrighted and proprietary, so users agrees not to record, duplicate, distribute, teach or train from our information in any manner whatsoever without our express written permission. any unauthorized use or distribution of our sites proprietary concepts, materials, and intellectual property by you or your representatives is prohibited and promoter will pursue legal action and full damages if these terms are violated in order to protect its rights. miscellaneous these terms will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of tennessee, without regard to any principles of conflicts of law. you agree that any action at law or in equity that arises out of or relates to these terms will be subject to mediation in the state of tennessee. if any of these terms of use are found unlawful, void, or for any reason unenforceable, then that provision will be considered severable from the remaining terms of use, and will not affect the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions. these terms may be modified only by our posting of changes to these terms of use on our sites. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed