skint dad where every penny counts home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about terms and conditions share tweet pin any person or entity (“user”) visiting, using or otherwise accessing the site at skintdad.co.uk (“site”) or any of the information contained in the site agrees to and is bound by the following terms and conditions of this user agreement (“agreement”): 1. this site, together with all content, data and other materials contained in the site (“content”) is owned or controlled by skint media limited, a company registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 and have its registered office at 1st floor 8b lonsdale gardens, tunbridge wells, kent, united kingdom, tn1 1nu. skint media limited is referred to in these terms and conditions as “we”, “us” or “our”. 2. this site is intended for reference purposes only and use of the site and/or the content is entirely at your own risk. please note that, whilst we endeavour to provide accurate and useful information, the content may not be wholly accurate or up-to-date and is subject to change, often at very short notice. all content is provided without any representations or warranties of any kind, either implied or express, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and is not intended as specific commercial, financial, business or legal advice. you should always carry out your own research and/or take specific professional advice before undertaking any business or financial venture. please note that skint media limited does not represent or warrant that the site or the content will be accurate, up-to-date, complete or free of defects, including without limitation viruses or other harmful elements. 3. skintdad.co.uk provides links to other third party websites. these links are provided for your convenience and skint media limited: (i) does not endorse or take responsibility for the content of such websites, (ii) is not responsible for the availability of such websites; and (ii) will not be liable in any way for any loss or damage which you may suffer by using such websites. if you decide to access linked websites, you do so at your own risk. 4. any other website may link to our site, provided it links only to the homepage, does not imply any endorsement of its products or services by skint media limited, does not misrepresent its relationship with or present false information about skint media limited, does not infringe any intellectual property or other right of any person and complies with all relevant laws and regulations. please note, however, that skint media limited reserves the right to withdraw such permission at any time and to take any other appropriate action. 5. skint media limited, unless otherwise stated, owns or controls all copyright, database and all other intellectual property rights in the site and the contents. you may not publish, distribute, extract, re-utilise, or reproduce any part of the site or its contents in any form (including storing it in any medium) other than as expressly allowed herein or as permitted by uk or local law. 6. if you register with the site, you agree to keep your password secure and confidential and not allow anyone else to use your email address or password to access the site; not to do anything which would assist anyone who is not a registered user to gain access to any secured area of the site; and not to create additional registration accounts for the purpose of abusing the functionality of the site, or other users, or to seek to pass yourself off as another user. you will not use vulgar, offensive usernames or any other usernames deemed to be inappropriate by skint media limited. 7. if you provide any information to the site, you agree to provide only true, accurate and complete information to us and/or the site. any personal information provided by users will be treated with appropriate care and security in accordance with our privacy policy. you further agree that if you submit any material to us other than personal data, you agree to grant to us a perpetual, royalty-free, worldwide, non-exclusive licence to use your contribution in all media, and you warrant that all such materials are original, that you have the right to grant such licence and you agree to waive your moral rights for the purposes of such licence. if you do not want to grant these rights, please do not submit your contribution to the site. 8. forum messageboards / blog comments / communications with other users: by using this feature users agree to adhere to general site instructions and all our terms and conditions, with particular attention to the following: • users will not to post spam or off-topic material. • users will not post adverts or the url or other address details of businesses or organisations with which they are involved or stand to gain financially. • users will not post chain letters or pyramid schemes. • users will not post malicious, threatening, unlawful, defamatory or objectionable content. • posts will be users’ own original work. users will not post material to which they do not have the copyright. • users will not intentionally supply false information. • users will pay attention to and abide by any changes to the terms and conditions. skint media limited reserves the right to delete any content or user accounts or take other action as necessary without notice. 9. any comments left on the forum or on blogs are the views of the user rather than skint media limited. by allowing comments to remain does not mean that skint media limited endorses the views or information contained within. we cannot take responsibility for the accuracy of the information posted by users. 10. you agree and undertake not to attempt to damage, deny service to, hack, crack, reverse-engineer, or otherwise interfere (collectively, “interfere”) with the site in any manner. if you in any way interfere with the site, you agree to pay all damages incurred by skint media limited. skint media limited will cooperate with the authorities in prosecuting any user who interferes with the site or otherwise attempts to defraud skint media limited or any other parties through user’s use of the site or services provided via the site. skint media limited reserves the right to deny any or all access or service to any user for any reason, at any time, at our sole discretion. user agrees that we may block user’s ip address or addresses at any time, and at our sole discretion to disallow user’s continued use of the site. we reserve the right to take any action we may deem appropriate in our sole discretion with respect to violations or enforcement of the terms of this agreement, and we expressly reserve all rights and remedies available to us at law or in equity. 11. the user agrees that the liability of skint media limited to the user under this agreement shall be limited to the amount the user has actually paid to skint media limited for its services. nothing in this agreement shall operate to limit or exclude liability for death or personal injury caused by negligence of skint media limited. 12. the user agrees to indemnify skint media limited for any loss or damage that may be incurred by skint media limited, including without limitation legal fees, arising from the user’s use of the site or the user’s use of any information obtained through the site. 13. your use of the site and/or its content creates no partnership, client, fiduciary or other professional relationship. 14. this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties on the subject matter hereof. there are no understandings, agreements, or representations, oral or written, not specified herein regarding this agreement. no modification of this agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by authorized parties for both skint media limited and the user. 15. if any part, term, or provision of this agreement shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, unenforceable, or in conflict with any law of the united kingdom having jurisdiction over this agreement, the remaining portions or provisions shall still remain valid and continue in full force and effect. 16. this agreement and/or any other terms of service may be changed without prior notice, and any such amendment will be applicable to all users from the date and time such revised terms have been posted on the site. user’s continued use of the site or services constitutes agreement with and acceptance of any such amendment or other changes. 17. this agreement shall be governed by and will be construed in accordance with the laws of england and wales. any disputes arising under or in connection with this agreement shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the english courts. disclosure skintdad.co.uk is a free to access website. in order to offset the costs of running this site, we accept forms of cash advertising, sponsorship, paid insertions, affiliates and other forms of compensation. this site abides by word of mouth marketing standards. we believe in honesty of relationship, opinion and identity. the compensation received may influence the advertising content, topics or posts made in this site. that content, advertising space or post will be clearly identified as paid or sponsored content. skint media limited is compensated to provide opinion on products, services, websites and various other topics. even though the owner(s) of this site receives compensation for our posts or advertisements, we always give our honest opinions, findings, beliefs, or experiences on those topics or products. the views and opinions expressed on this site are purely the owners’ own. any product claim, statistic, quote or other representation about a product or service should be verified with the manufacturer, provider or party in question. contact skint dad® want to get in touch with skint dad contact: [email protected] [email protected] connect with us find out how to save money make money manage money start a blog eat cheap win competitions join us sitemap information about skint dad awards, media and press advertise on skint dad jobs at skint dad privacy policy cookie policy terms & conditions check out our sister site skint chef copyright © 2020 · skint media limited · all rights reserved · registered in england and wales with company number 09991508 · privacy policy · cookie policy · terms and conditions home save money latest supermarket offers 1p saving challenge make money best paid survey sites quidco new member offers genuine work from home jobs manage money financial jargon buster cheap recipes skint dad fakeaway top 20 cheat meal series win skint dad competitions deals amazon discount tool join us newsletter about