worksheets all topics a-z grammar vocabulary speaking reading listening writing pronunciation virtual classroom articles posters books more worksheets by season 600 creative writing prompts warmers, fillers & ice-breakers coloring pages to print flashcards classroom management worksheets emergency worksheets revision worksheets resources we recommend busyteacher home » terms of use privacy policy sureswift capital inc. (hereinafter “sureswift capital”), a company incorporated under canadian laws, corporation number bc1041789, which provides the product through its website busyteacher.org. by registering on the website busyteacher.org or using the service, the client acknowledges that he/she/it has read, understood and agreed to the entirety of these terms of service. sureswift capital strongly advises the client to print and/or save a copy of the terms of service. these terms of service may be amended from time to time. it is the client’s responsibility to review these terms of service frequently and to remain informed of any changes implemented. the client agrees that the continued use of the service after such changes to the terms of services have been published will constitute the client’s acceptance of such revised terms. definitions in this agreement, words or phrases beginning with a capital letter shall have the following meanings: “account” means the account of the client after entering into the agreement, which enables the client to use the service. "agreement" means the agreement constituted by these terms of service, the subscribed plan, the privacy policy and any potential subsequent amendments of those as well as any separate agreement entered into between sureswift capital and the client for the performance of the service. "client" means the individual or legal entity, professional only, with whom sureswift capital entered this agreement and whose name and address appear on the account. the client and sureswift capital are hereinafter collectively referred to as the “parties” or individually as a “party”. "busyteacher solution" means the busyteacher software, as well as any related applications, developed and published by sureswift capital. “personal data” means any information relating to a natural person who is or can be identified, directly or indirectly. “content” means any data, whether personal or not, contained in the information processed through busyteacher by the user processed email sent by the client to the inbox(es) and processed through the busyteacher solution. "documentation" means all documents that may be viewed, printed, sent and/or downloaded in electronic form from the website website, including any help pages that describe the functionalities of the service and the busyteacher solution. "service" means the grant of access to the busyteacher solution by sureswift capital and the use of the busyteacher solution, whether through the website http://www.busyteacher.org or through the busyteacher application, under the terms and conditions set out in the agreement. purpose of the agreement the purpose of this agreement is to set out the conditions under which sureswift capital provides the service to the client, who accepts it, a nonexclusive and nontransferable right to use the busyteacher solution. in exchange, the client agrees to pay the contractual fee and to comply with all requirements set out in the terms of service. email data and email contacts 1. user data all data you input into the busyteacher will not be freely given to anyone. we do not, under any circumstances, sell either your email data or your email contacts' personal data. only authorized employees have access to view user data. 2. information collection and use by us we are the sole owner of information collected on the service (including any metadata). we collect information only as necessary to fulfill the purposes set forth in the privacy policy and we will only use this information as described in the privacy policy. we may combine any or all of this data with other information we collect about you. we may view, copy, and internally distribute content from your emails and account to provide customer support. terms the agreement will be effective after the creation of an account by the client, including a free account, and will remain in effect until its termination by either party. the minimal duration of the agreement is one (1) month as from the date of the subscription of a monthly subscribed plan and one (1) year as from the date of the subscription of an annual subscribed plan. all subscribed plans will renew for successive periods of the same duration by tacit agreement, unless terminated by either party by email (for the client: to the client’s email address provided in the account; for sureswift capital: [email protected]) at least 7 (seven) working days before the end of the subscribed plan. it is the sole responsibility of the client to anticipate the end of the subscribed plan, which consequences will be borne exclusively by the client. no amount received in advance by sureswift capital for the subscribed plan will be refunded. all content and parsed content will be automatically deleted from the service at the termination date of the agreement. the client is aware that the content and the parsed content cannot be recovered after the termination date of the agreement. this website was made by english teachers for english teachers, and it contains printable worksheets and handouts made by our registered users who have granted busyteacher.org full permission to publish their materials on this website. all the information that the worksheets contain is provided by our users. the users have either created the content themselves or have found the worksheets on the publisher's website - in that case the worksheet must be marked as 'free' or 'photocopiable' by the publisher. the website administration or hosting administration does not necessarily agree to, or hold any responsibility for the content of the worksheets. this site is a privately owned project, it operates under a number of relevant international laws that protect private property and regulate the activities of this kind. any information found on this website can not be used for any purposes other than review. the website owners are not liable for the consequences of any use or abuse of the website for purposes prohibited by international law. this project is non-profit, and the authors do not bear any liability. we are unable to check every single publication that our users upload, so if you have noticed that someone has uploaded a material that you hold the copyright for and would like to have removed from busyteacher.org, please let us know, and we'll remove the infringing material immediately. claims of infringement busyteacher.org respects the intellectual property rights of others. accordingly, busyteacher.org has a policy of removing user submissions that violate copyright law, suspending access to the busyteacher.org website (or any portion thereof) to any user who uses the busyteacher.org website in violation of copyright law and/or terminating in appropriate circumstances the account of any user who uses the busyteacher website in violation of copyright law. pursuant to title 17 of the united states code, section 512, busyteacher.org has implemented procedures for receiving written notification of claimed copyright infringement and for processing such claims in accordance with such law. if you believe your copyright or other intellectual property right is being infringed by a user of the busyteacher.org website, please provide written notice to the following email address for notice of claims of infringement: email: [email protected] your written notice must: (a) contain your physical or electronic signature; (b) identify the copyrighted work or other intellectual property alleged to have been infringed; (c) identify the allegedly infringing material in a sufficiently precise manner ( the full url of the infringing page) to allow busyteacher.org to locate that material; (d) contain adequate information by which busyteacher.org can contact you (including postal address, telephone number, and e-mail address); (e) contain a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the copyrighted material or other intellectual property is not authorized by the owner, the owner's agent or the law; (f) contain a statement that the information in the written notice is accurate; and (g) contain a statement, under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright or other intellectual property right owner. procedure for making claims of infringement busyteacher.org respects the intellectual property rights of others. accordingly, busyteacher.org has a policy of removing user submissions that violate copyright law, suspending access to the busyteacher.org website (or any portion thereof) to any user who uses the busyteacher.org website in violation of copyright law and/or terminating in appropriate circumstances the account of any user who uses the busyteacher website in violation of copyright law. pursuant to title 17 of the united states code, section 512, busyteacher.org has implemented procedures for receiving written notification of claimed copyright infringement and for processing such claims in accordance with such law. if you believe your copyright or other intellectual property right is being infringed by a user of the busyteacher.org website, please provide written notice to the following email address for notice of claims of infringement: email: [email protected] your written notice must: (a) contain your physical or electronic signature; (b) identify the copyrighted work or other intellectual property alleged to have been infringed; (c) identify the allegedly infringing material in a sufficiently precise manner (url of the infringing page) to allow busyteacher.org to locate that material; (d) contain adequate information by which busyteacher.org can contact you (including postal address, telephone number, and e-mail address); (e) contain a statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the copyrighted material or other intellectual property is not authorized by the owner, the owner's agent or the law; (f) contain a statement that the information in the written notice is accurate; and (g) contain a statement, under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the copyright or other intellectual property right owner. once you have confirmed your copyright ownership for the materials in question, we will remove the violating material. all information contained on the site is provided at the permission of the authors who created the printable materials. granting and undertaking of sureswift capital sureswift capital undertakes to use all reasonable and human resources to provide the service, subject to interruptions, suspension or discontinuance of all or any portion of the service due to maintenance, service disruption or failure external to sureswift capital. for maintenance operations, sureswift capital will endeavour to inform the client in advance by email or via the website http://www.busyteacher.org. the temporary interruptions of the service, of any kind, will under no circumstances give rise to indemnification of any kind to the client’s benefit. the client, who enters into the agreement on behalf of a company or other legal entity, grants that he/she/it has the authority to bind such entity and its affiliates. the client grants to be a natural or a legal entity, acting as a professional, excluding any robots. accounts registered by "bots" or other automated methods are not permitted. the client undertakes to: - acquire the necessary hardware and software, and to subscribe to telecommunications services (internet access) required to remotely use the service. the costs for such equipment and for internet access services are exclusively borne by the client; - ensure that the client is trained to use the service and internetbased technologies; - maintain the security of the account and the related password; - accurately transmit, under his/her/its sole responsibility, all information required for the performance of the agreement and warrants the accuracy of such information. the client hence commits to report any change to these information; - pay the contractual fees under the conditions set out in the agreement; - respect sureswift capital’s intellectual property rights; - refrain from using the service in conditions that may impair the functioning or safety of the service; - refrain from modifying, adapting or hacking the service or modify another website so as to falsely imply that it is associated with the service, or with sureswift capital; - refrain from reproducing, duplicating, copying, selling, reselling or exploiting any portion of the service, use of the service, or access to the service without the written permission by sureswift capital; sureswift capital may remove any user data information that sureswift capital considers in its sole discretion as unlawful, offensive, threatening, libelous, defamatory, pornographic, obscene or otherwise objectionable or violates any party's intellectual property right(s) or the agreement. privacy the client is considered the data controller within the meaning of the act n°7817 of 6 january 1978 on information technology as well as european union’s 2018 general data protection regulation, data files and civil liberties, in regards to all user data provided within the framework of the agreements. the client therefore undertakes expressly to comply with all applicable data protection regulations and to carry out any necessary formalities. in compliance with the act n°7817 of 6 january 1978 on information technology, data files and civil liberties, the client has a permanent right to access, amend, modify or delete any information related to him/her/it by sending an email to [email protected] for more details, sureswift capital invites the client to refer to the privacy policy, which is part of the agreement (access the privacy policy). gdpr compliance busyteacher as well as sureswift capital have taken necessary steps to be within the compliance standards of the european union’s general data protection regulation. more information regarding the protection of your data can be found in the associated privacy policy at the following link: https://busyteacher.org/privacy_policy.html. confidentiality sureswift capital and the client undertake to keep confidential all information and documents concerning each party, of any nature whatsoever, to which the relevant party may have referred to, or provided, during the performance of the agreement. the above shall not prevent sureswift capital to mention its commercial relationship with the client, as provided below. force majeure sureswift capital uses all technical means which may be reasonably used for the performance of the service. sureswift capital shall therefore not be held liable in the event that the service is not available in the case of force majeure, including but not limited to, network failure, strike, natural disaster, earthquake, public telecommunication network failure, failure of internet connection due to private or public agents to which sureswift capital relies upon. the client waives any right to indemnity of any nature whatsoever in the event of force majeure and sureswift capital shall not be held liable for any cost incurred due to the impossibility to use the service. miscellaneous at any time and at its own discretion, sureswift capital reserves the right to assign, subcontract, transfer and / or provide all or part of the rights and obligations subject of the agreement to a third party in any form whatsoever. this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. it supersedes all prior negotiations, contracts, and undertakings between the parties with respect to such matter. the fact that one of the parties did not request the application of any provision of this agreement shall in no event be deemed or interpreted as a waiver of the right that party has under this provision. the client allows sureswift capital to mention its company name or name and the service provided for commercial purpose only. choice of law and jurisdiction the agreement is subject to the laws of canada. any dispute, controversy or claim arising under, out of or relating to the validity, interpretation and performance of the agreement shall be referred to and finally determined by the competent courts of the province of british columbia and british columbia law shall apply. busyteacher.org copyright 2007-2020 © about submit a worksheet log in terms privacy contact us mobile version working. please wait...