skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search terms and conditions home » terms and conditions when visiting colorlib.com, visitors agree to the terms of service as mentioned on this page. we reserve the right to update, revise or append the terms of service at any time by posting such modifications for public view. be sure to carefully examine this page as necessary to check for any changes to the service agreement since it can impact your relationship with colorlib.com point of reference “colorlib.com” refers to the entire staff and partners with which we conduct business. information that we collect colorlib.com will never collect information about you unless otherwise authorized and provided by you. we do not engage in the collection of any information specific to you or your visit. content, objects and intellectual property rights all content, objects (including but not limited to applications, processes and software used to render objects) and other related materials belong to colorlib.com, unless indicated otherwise. all content and objects owned by colorlib.com are governed and protected by state and federal laws, such as copyrights, trade marks, and intellectual property rights. only third-party materials, brands, trademarks and service marks are the property of their respective owners. any interactions you have with colorlib.com becomes our property and may be transcribed, recorded, published or sold as is allowed within the constraints of applicable local, state and federal laws. we are not responsible for errors, omissions, sic content as produced by you or other users, opinions, third-party embedded information, or any other content provided by this website. you fully acknowledge that any decisions you make based on the information gathered through the use of colorlib.com is done at your own risk. content and objects on colorlib.com cannot not be altered, edited, reproduced, reposted, mirrored, moved, downloaded, distributed or published without soliciting written consent. we maintain the right to update, append or remove content, refuse access or discontinue use of the website without previous notification. trademarks and copyrights information within this website is copyrighted by colorlib.com, except in cases where images, applications or text is dually licensed and approved from affiliates or third-party vendors. regulations and governing law by accessing this site you are subject to all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations. unauthorized access or use will be prosecuted in accordance with federal and state laws. statement of liability and general disclaimer you assume all responsibility for any damages that may result from using this website. all products, services, information and content is furnished to you “as is” without any guarantee. colorlib.com will not assume liability for any damages (including residual, special, consequential or indirect) that may result from the use of the materials provided through the use of this website, even if colorlib.com has previously been informed that the potential for such damages exist. third party content, links, associations and purchases links to other blogs, webspace and/or materials found on colorlib.com are provided solely as a courtesy to our visitors. colorlib.com has no control over the linked sites or the materials, information, goods or services available or contained on these linked sites.thus, colorlib.com is not and shall not be held responsible for and does not endorse in any way the materials, information, goods or services available through such linked sites or any of the privacy or other practices of such linked sites. colorlib.com does not warrant that any information found on the linked sites is complete or accurate or that any information or any links on those sites are free of rogue programming. if you decide to access any of the linked sites, you do so entirely at your own risk. colorlib.com also reserves the right to terminate any link at any time. colorlib.com uses 301 redirects for some of its affiliate links, this means that while some of the “preview”, “download”, “demo” and other links may look like they are on the colorlib.com domain they are in fact external links to pages on other domains (our affiliate sites). these redirects are used for tracking purposes only, not to try and trick anyone into clicking them or to manipulate search engines. as a user of colorlib.com you acknowledge that some links on this website will redirect you to other websites and the owner of colorlib.com will not be held liable for any problem or confusion cause from you clicking any of these links. comments policy comments and reviews of the products on this site are encouraged and we welcome all kinds of thoughts, supportive, dissenting, critical or otherwise. there are however a few conditions and rules governing comments on this website which you can read about in our comments policy. you are advised to solicit the opinions of professionals, other sources and authorities before committing to any decisions made as a result of exposure to any of the material presented by colorlib.com. if you feel that something is missing you can feel free to read our privacy policy or contact us directly. disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube colorlib themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum we recommend: categories coupons ecommerce frameworks free themes giveaway hosting inspiration logo design mockups news photography plugins portfolio promotions psd templates reviews snippets theme collections tools tutorial uncategorized website builders website design website templates metro colors color mixer we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×