send comments & news tips join prime sign in forgot password? sign up sections all news livewire editor's blog tpm dc tpm cafe the slice muckraker world news longform 5 points this chart idealab podcasts polltracker store published since 2000 tpm terms of use welcome to the tpm network of sites (“the tpm websites”). by accessing and using the tpm websites and their services (the “service”) you are agreeing to be legally bound by these terms of use. 1. general tpm media llc (“tpm”) may change these terms of use from time to time so be sure to check back periodically. your use of the tpm websites after any changes have been posted will constitute your agreement to the modified terms of use. you understand and agree that tpm may discontinue or change the tpm websites and/or the service at any time, without notice. you also understand and agree that tpm may discontinue or restrict your use of the tpm websites for any reason without notice and without any liability to you. in addition, when using the tpm websites, you shall be subject to any posted guidelines or rules applicable to the service, which may be posted from time to time and which are hereby incorporated by reference into these terms of use. 2. copyright the content displayed on the tpm websites, including the selection, arrangement, and design (“content”) is the property of tpm or its licensors, and is protected by copyright and other intellectual property laws. the content may be used only for your personal and non-commercial use and may not be edited or modified for any purpose. by accessing the tpm websites, you agree not to reproduce, retransmit, distribute, disseminate, display, sell, publish, broadcast or circulate the content to anyone, except that you may occasionally reproduce, distribute, display or transmit an insubstantial portion of content, for a noncommercial purpose, to a limited number of individuals, provided you use the phrase “used with permission from the tpm websites, a service of tpm media llc.” all rights not expressly granted herein are hereby reserved. tpm does not claim ownership of the content you submit or make available for inclusion on the tpm websites. the content is the property of the author of such content. you agree to grant tpm a perpetual, royalty-free and irrevocable right and license to use, reproduce, modify, adapt, publish, translate, distribute, transmit, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, create derivative works from, transfer, and sell such content in any format now know or hereafter created, and to use your name and other identifying information you provide in connection with that content. you also permit any visitor or member of the tpm websites to use such content for personal use as described above. if you believe in good faith that any content infringes your copyright, you may send us a notice requesting that the material be removed though we cannot guarantee that any action will be taken as a result of your correspondence. notices should be sent here. 3. disclaimer of warranties and liability you agree that your access to, and use of, the service and the content available on the tpm websites is on an “as-is”, “as available” basis. the tpm websites include facts, views, opinions and recommendations of individuals and organizations deemed of interest, and tpm does not endorse these views, opinions and recommendations. tpm specifically disclaims any representations or warranties, express or implied, as to the tpm websites and the content, including, without limitation, any representations or warranties of accuracy, completeness, timeliness, noninfringement, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. tpm will not be liable to you or anyone else for any loss or injury caused in whole or part by its negligence or contingencies beyond its control in procuring, compiling, interpreting, reporting or delivering> the tpm websites and the content. in no event will tpm be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or action taken by you in reliance on the content. tpm shall not be liable to you or anyone else for any damages (including, without limitation, consequential, special, incidental, indirect, or similar damages), other than direct damages, even if advised of the possibility of such damages. because some states or jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for damages or the exclusion of certain types of warranties, parts or all of the above limitation may not apply to you. 4. links to third party sites the tpm websites may contain hyperlinks to web sites operated by persons other than tpm. you agree not to hold tpm responsible for the content or operation of such web sites. a hyperlink from the tpm websites to another web site does not imply or mean that tpm endorses the content on that web site or the operator or operations of that site. you are solely responsible for determining the extent to which you may use any content at any other web sites to which you might link from the tpm websites. 5. additional legal terms these terms of use, your rights and obligations, and all actions contemplated by these terms of use will be governed by the laws of the united states of america and the state of new york, as if these terms of use were a contract wholly entered into and wholly performed within the state of new york. these terms of use will not be governed by the united nations convention on contracts for the international sale of goods. if any provision in these terms of use is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, the remaining provisions will continue in full force and effect, and the invalid or unenforceable provision will be deemed superseded by a valid, enforceable provision that most closely matches the intent of the original provision. these terms of use are the entire and final agreement regarding the tpm websites and their content, and supersede any prior or contemporaneous communications between tpm and you regarding the tpm websites and their content. 6. user obligations in consideration of your use of the service, you represent that you are of legal age to form a binding contract and are not a person barred from receiving services under the laws of the united states or other applicable jurisdiction. you agree to provide true, accurate, current and complete information about yourself upon registration and thereafter. you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your password and account, and are fully responsible for all activities that occur under your password or account. you agree to immediately notify the tpm websites of any unauthorized use of your password or account or any other breach of security. tpm cannot and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising from your failure to comply this section 6. you agree to comply with all local rules regarding online conduct and acceptable content, including all applicable laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the united states or the country in which you reside. you agree not to use the tpm websites or the service to: upload, post, email, transmit or otherwise make available (“post”) any content: that is unlawful, harmful, threatening, abusive, harassing, tortious, defamatory, vulgar, obscene, libelous, false or inaccurate, invasive of another’s privacy, hateful, or racially, ethnically or otherwise objectionable; that you do not have a right to make available under any law or under contractual or fiduciary relationships (such as inside information, proprietary and confidential information learned or disclosed as part of employment relationships or under nondisclosure agreements); or that infringes any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other proprietary rights (“rights”) of any party; harm minors in any way; impersonate any person or entity, or falsely state or otherwise misrepresent your affiliation with a person or entity; post any unsolicited or unauthorized advertising, promotional materials, “junk mail,” “spam,” “chain letters,” “pyramid schemes,” or any other form of solicitation; post any material that contains software viruses or any other computer code, files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer software or hardware or telecommunications equipment; interfere with or disrupt the service or servers or networks connected to the service, or disobey any requirements, procedures, policies or regulations of networks connected to the service; violate any applicable local, state, national or international law, intentionally or unintentionally; “stalk” or otherwise harass another; and/or collect or store personal data about other users. you agree to be fully responsible for your own content. the tpm websites act as a venue for you to post your content. while tpm has the right to refuse to post or remove, edit or abridge any content for any reason, it is otherwise not involved in the writing or decisions as to the content of its users. as a result, tpm has no control over the quality, accuracy or legality of the content on the tpm websites. all content posted on the tpm websites is the sole responsibility of the person from whom such content originated. because the tpm websites are venues, in the event that you have a dispute with a user of the tpm websites and their service, you release tpm and its officers, members and employees from claims, demands and damages (actual and consequential) of every kind and nature, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, disclosed and undisclosed, arising out of or in any way connected with such disputes. you agree to indemnify and hold tpm and its officers, members and employees harmless from any claims, damages, losses or costs (including reasonable attorney’s fees) that arise out of any of your content, including, without limitation, any content posted or otherwise provided by you that infringes any copyright, trademark, intellectual property right of any person or defames any person or violates any person’s rights of publicity or privacy, or otherwise violates these terms of use. 7. privacy and use of information. please visit our privacy policy, which also governs your use of the tpm websites, to understand how we collect and use information about you. if you are outside the united states, you understand and agree that by providing the tpm websites any information about yourself, you are consenting to the transfer of that information to the united states. 8. trademark information the tpm logo, tpmcafe, talking points memo, tpm, tpm media, tpm election central, tpmmuckraker, tpmtv and the other trademarks, service marks, logos and trade names displayed on the tpm websites (the “tpm marks”) are the trademarks of tpm. you agree not to display or use the tpm marks in any manner without tpm’s prior written consent. livewire planned parenthood exits federal family planning program over abortion gag rule august 19, 2019, 3:20 pm edt planned parenthood is leaving the federal government’s title x program, which funds family planning… gop homeland security chair 'concerned' with 'growing leadership void' at dhs april 8, 2019, 4:36 pm edt following the ousters of the homeland security secretary and secret service director, and the… schumer wants ousted secret service chief to testify on mar-a-lago 'vulnerabilities' april 8, 2019, 3:47 pm edt senate minority leader chuck schumer (d-ny) on monday called for ousted secret service director… nielsen: ‘i just want to thank the president, again’ april 8, 2019, 12:21 pm edt nielsen: "i just want to thank the president, again." pic.twitter.com/5m8wsu9xej — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire)… trump thanks 'two great people': diamond and silk april 6, 2019, 10:10 am edt thank you to two great people! https://t.co/9voiv44l9c — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) april 6,… about terms of use careers site status advertise contact editor & publisher josh marshall managing editor david kurtz senior editor catherine thompson news editor david taintor investigations desk sam thielman tierney sneed senior political correspondent cameron joseph reporters allegra kirkland alice ollstein newswriters esme cribb nicole lafond caitlin mac neal matt shuham editor-at-large john b. judis front page editor summer concepcion social media editor cristina cabrera editorial fellow annie rees general manager & general counsel millet israeli senior vice president for advertising strategy will johnson director of product & creative development derick dirmaier executive publisher joe ragazzo director of technology matthew wozniak designer christine frapech publishing associate jackie wilhelm © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved.