this app works best with javascript enabled. terms of service and policies constant contact terms of service and policies the below documents set forth the legal agreement(s) you enter into by using constant contact's products and services and related offerings, features and functionalities (collectively, the "services"). if you use constant contact's email marketing product and/or its related services (collectively, the "email marketing product"), the agreements and policies set forth under "constant contact email marketing" apply to you and your use of the email marketing product. if you use constant contact's website builder product and/or its related services (collectively, the "website builder product"), the agreements and policies set set forth under "constant contact website builder" apply to you and your use of the website builder product. finally, the privacy notice set forth below is applicable to all users of the services and visitors to any constant contact website." constant contact email marketing the below agreements and policies apply to your use of the email marketing product constant contact website and products terms and conditions of use constant contact anti-spam policy constant contact prohibited content and commerce statement constant contact california privacy rights constant contact website builder the below agreements and policies apply to your use of the website builder product. constant contact website builder terms of service constant contact website builder acceptable use policy constant contact website builder domain registration agreement constant contact copyright infringement policy constant contact website builder trademark disputes for domain names constant contact website builder domain name renewal notification policy constant contact website builder legal data request policy constant contact website builder arbitration agreement privacy notice constant contact is in the endurance family of brands. the privacy notice applies to all users of the services and visitors to any endurance website, including all constant contact websites: privacy notice email marketing email marketing overview email templates marketing automation facebook & instagram ads google ads ecommerce integrations email campaign ideas email marketing pricing free trial information websites websites overview website builder online store logomaker websites pricing domains free website builder services & help marketing advisors professional services online marketing blog product help center knowledge base email campaign ideas success stories the download about constant contact partners agencies technology partners affiliates franchises associations about us company careers news investors contact us it pays to have friends. literally. refer a friend check out our mobile apps join mailing list enter email address× by entering your information, you permit us to reach out to you with future communications. got it! be on the lookout for your first email from us. terms & conditions privacy california privacy rights security anti-spam do not sell my info © constant contact, inc. 1996 – 2020