skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: terms of use please read these terms of use carefully before using or accessing any pages in this website. by using or accessing this website, it is implied that you agree with the terms and conditions below. if you do not agree to these terms of use, please do not use this website. freshome.com can revise these terms of use at any time by updating this page, and your use after such change signifies your acceptance of the changed terms. please check these terms of use periodically for changes. privacy in addition to these terms of use, freshome has established a privacy policy to explain how user information is collected and used by this website. intellectual property all trademarks, service marks, trade names and trade dress that may appear on the website are owned by us, our licensors, or both. except for the limited use rights granted to you in these terms of use, you shall not acquire any right, title or interest in the website or any website content. any rights not expressly granted in these terms of use are expressly reserved. licence and site access this site or any portion of this site may not be reproduced, duplicated, copied, sold, resold, visited, or otherwise exploited for any commercial purpose without express written consent of freshome.com. you may not frame or utilize framing techniques to enclose any trademark, logo, or other proprietary information (including images, text, page layout, or form) of freshome.com and its affiliates without express written consent. you may not use any meta tags or any other hidden text? utilizing freshome.com’s name or trademarks without the express written consent of freshome.com. when using the website, you agree to comply with all applicable federal, state, and local laws including, without limitation copyright law. except as expressly permitted in these terms of use, you may not use, reproduce, distribute, create derivative works based upon, publicly display, publicly perform, publish, transmit, or otherwise exploit website content for any purpose whatsoever without obtaining prior written consent from us or, in the case of third-party content, its respective owner. disclaimer some materials, unless otherwise noted, were taken from the internet and are assumed to be in the public domain. in the event that there is still a problem or error with copyrighted material, the break of the copyright is unintentional and noncommercial and the material will be removed immediately upon presented proof. conditions for linking to freshome.com freshome grants you a non-exclusive, limited license, revocable at our discretion, for you to link to the website home page or other freshome posts from any site you own or control that is not commercially competitive with freshome.com and does not criticize or otherwise injure us, so long as the site where the link resides, and all other locations to which such site links, comply with all applicable laws and do not in any way abuse, defame, stalk, threaten or violate the rights of privacy, publicity, intellectual property or other legal rights of others or, in any way, post, publish, distribute, disseminate or facilitate any inappropriate, infringing, defamatory, profane, indecent, obscene or illegal/unlawful information, topic, name or other material or that violates the spirit of our mission. no endorsements visitors, users, and participants alike acknowledge that any reliance on material posted by others on freshome.com will be at their own risk. any content placed on any discussion area are the views of the user posting the statement, and do not represent the views of freshome.com. connecting to freshome via a mobile device freshome.com may include certain services that may be available via your mobile device, including without limitation, the ability to upload to the website via your mobile device, the ability to receive and reply to messages and to send content and messages using text messaging, and the ability to access the website from your mobile device (collectively, the mobile services). freshome.com does not currently charge for mobile services. your carrier normal messaging, data and other rates and fees will, however, still apply. you should check with your carrier to find out what plans are available and how much they cost. © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss