nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop terms of use last updated: may 25th, 2018 terms of service please read the terms of use carefully before you start to use the website. by using the website or by clicking to accept or agree to the terms of use when this option is made available to you, you accept and agree to be bound and abide by these terms of use and our privacy policy, incorporated herein by reference. if you do not want to agree to these terms of use including the agreements incorporated by reference herein, you must not access or use the website. general this website (the “site”) is owned and operated by nomadic matt, inc (“company,” “we” or “us”). by using the site, you agree to be bound by these terms of service that follow and to use the site in accordance with these terms of service, our privacy policy and any additional terms and conditions that may apply to specific sections of the site or to products and services available through the site or from company. accessing the site, in any manner, whether automated or otherwise, constitutes use of the site and your agreement to be bound by these terms of service. intellectual property rights unless otherwise stated, all written content on this site is owned by nomadic matt, inc and/or our affiliates or licensors, and are protected by copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property laws. the site is provided solely for your personal noncommercial use. you may not use the site or the materials available on the site in a manner that constitutes an infringement of our rights or that has not been authorized by us. more specifically, you may not modify, copy, reproduce, republish, upload, post, translate, sell, create derivative works, exploit, or distribute in any manner or medium (including by email or other electronic means) any material from the site without prior permission. you may, however, download, print, and/or share one copy of individual pages of the site for non-commercial use, provided that you keep intact all copyright and other proprietary notices. your license to us. by posting or submitting any material (including, without limitation, comments, blog entries, facebook postings, photos and videos) to us via the site, internet groups, social media venues, or to any of our staff via email, text or otherwise, you are representing: (i) that you are the owner of the material, or are making your posting or submission with the express consent of the owner of the material; and (ii) that you are eighteen years of age or older. in addition, when you submit, email, text or deliver or post any material, you are granting us, and anyone authorized by us, a royalty-free, perpetual, irrevocable, non-exclusive, unrestricted, worldwide license to use, copy, modify, transmit, sell, create derivative works from, distribute, and/or publicly perform or display such material, in whole or in part, in any manner or medium, now known or hereafter developed, for any purpose. the foregoing grant shall include the right to exploit any proprietary rights in such posting or submission, including, but not limited to, rights under copyright, trademark, service mark or patent laws under any relevant jurisdiction. also, in connection with the exercise of such rights, you grant us, and anyone authorized by us, the right to identify you as the author of any of your postings or submissions by name, email address or screen name, as we deem appropriate. limitations on linking and framing. you may establish a hypertext link to the site so long as the link does not state or imply any sponsorship of your site by us or by the site. however, you may not, without our prior written permission, frame or inline link any of the content of the site, or incorporate into another website or other service any of our material, content or intellectual property. privacy your use of the website is also subject to the company’s privacy policy. please review our privacy policy, which also governs the website and informs users of our data collection practices. your agreement to the privacy policy is hereby incorporated into these terms of use. accuracy of information while we shall endeavor to ensure that all information on the site is accurate, we cannot vouch that all information will be accurate and up-to-date at all times. the site contains a large amount of data, and errors are likely to occur in tracking changes such as but not limited to changes in dates and times of events, restaurant information, prices, exchange rates, accommodation, or other travel information. part of this site contains materials submitted to nomadic matt by third parties. it is the responsibility of these third parties to ensure that the materials submitted for inclusion on this site comply with national and relevant foreign laws. we cannot guarantee the accuracy or reliability of this material and hereby disclaim any responsibility for error, omission or inaccuracy in the material or for any misinterpretation, loss, disappointment, negligence or damage caused by reliance on any material contained within the site. we also cannot accept responsibility for any failure or alleged failure in the delivery of the services referred to herein, or in the event of bankruptcy, liquidation or cessation of trade of any company, individual or firm referred to herein. you are advised to check with the establishment concerned. we accept no responsibility for the content of any site to which a hypertext link from this site exists. such links are provided for your convenience on an ‘as is’ basis. should you find any inaccurate information on the site, please inform us at matt@nomadicmatt.com and we shall correct it as soon as it is practicable to do so. non-guarantee of results you agree that the company has not made any guarantees about the results of taking any action, whether recommended on this website or not. the company provides educational and informational resources that are intended to help users of this website succeed. you nevertheless recognize that your ultimate success or failure will be the result of your own efforts, your particular situation, and innumerable other circumstances beyond the control and/or knowledge of the company. you also recognize that prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. thus, the results obtained by others – whether clients of the company or otherwise – applying the principles set out in the site are no guarantee that you or any other person or entity will be able to obtain similar results. limitation of liability under no circumstances, including, but not limited to, negligence, shall we, our subsidiary and parent companies or affiliates be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential damages that result from the use of, or the inability to use, the site, including in our messaging, blogs, comments of others, books, emails, products, or services, or third-party materials, products, or services made available through the site or by us in any way, even if we are advised beforehand of the possibility of such damages. (because some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of certain categories of damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. in such states, our liability and the liability of our subsidiary and parent companies or affiliates is limited to the fullest extent permitted by such state law.) you specifically acknowledge and agree that we are not liable for any defamatory, offensive or illegal conduct of any user. if you are dissatisfied with the site, any materials, products, or services on the site, or with any of the site’s terms and conditions, your sole and exclusive remedy is to discontinue using the site and the products, services and/or materials. termination and access restriction the company reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate your access to the website and the related services or any portion thereof at any time, without notice. to the maximum extent permitted by law, and you hereby consent to resolve any and all disputes arising under or related to this website or the terms of use pursuant to the arbitration clause above. use of the website is unauthorized in any jurisdiction that does not give effect to all provisions of these terms, including, without limitation, this section. dmca notices i create all my content and i find my images via creative commons if i don’t supply them myself or get permission from the artist to use their work. i have the deepest respect for others’ rights in their work. if you feel that your copyright rights have been violated, please send me a dmca takedown notice and i’ll gladly remove it. you can send the notice to matt@bnomadicmatt.com or nomadic matt, 222 broadway, floor 19, ny, ny 10038 with the following information: – your address, telephone number, and email address; – a description of the copyrighted work that you claim has been infringed; – a description of where the alleged infringing material is located; – a statement by you that you have a good faith belief that the disputed use is not authorized by you, the copyright owner, its agent, or the law; – an electronic or physical signature of the person authorized to act on behalf of the owner of the copyright interest; and – a statement by you, made under penalty of perjury, that the above information in your notice is accurate and that you are the copyright owner or authorized to act on the copyright owner’s behalf. governing law these terms shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the united states and the state of texas, without reference to their rules regarding conflicts of law. you hereby irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of the state or federal courts in austin, texas in all disputes arising out of or related to the use of the site. contact us if you have questions or comments regarding the privacy policy, you may reach us at: nomadic matt, inc 207 e. 9th street georgetown, tx 78626 email address: matt@nomadicmatt.com get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site