skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search terms of service the gist: we (the folks at seneca and marcus, llc) run this site and would love for you to use it. this site, blog, forum, and related services are designed to educate and entertain, and we encourage you to express yourself freely. however, be responsible in what you write, and please be respectful. being critical is fine, but rudeness and personal attacks are not. in particular, make sure that none of the prohibited items listed below appear in your writing or what you link to (things like spam, viruses, or hate content). that’s the gist of it. thanks also to the good folks at automattic (responsible for great creations like wordpress.com), who have made their more comprehensive terms of service available under a creative commons sharealike license, which means that you can borrow some or all of their wording for your own terms of service. that’s exactly what we did. terms of service: the following terms and conditions govern all use of the https://www.fourhourworkweek.com website and all content, services and products available at or through the website, including, but not limited to, associated blogs, forums, and websites (timferriss.com, tim.blog, among others), taken together, the website. the website is owned and operated by seneca and marcus, llc (“tf content, inc.”). the website is offered subject to your acceptance without modification of all of the terms and conditions contained herein and all other operating rules, policies (including, without limitation, tf content, inc.’s privacy policy) and procedures that may be published from time to time on this site by tf content, inc. (collectively, the “agreement”). please read this agreement carefully before accessing or using the website. by accessing or using any part of the web site, you agree to become bound by the terms and conditions of this agreement. if you do not agree to all the terms and conditions of this agreement, then you may not access the website or use any services. if these terms and conditions are considered an offer by tf content, inc., acceptance is expressly limited to these terms. the website is available only to individuals who are at least 13 years old. 1. responsibility of contributors. if you operate a blog, comment on a blog, post material to the website, post links on the website, or otherwise make (or allow any third party to make) material available by means of the website (any such material, “content”), you are entirely responsible for the content of, and any harm resulting from, that content. that is the case regardless of whether the content in question constitutes text, graphics, an audio file, or computer software. by making content available, you represent and warrant that: * the downloading, copying and use of the content will not infringe the proprietary rights, including but not limited to the copyright, patent, trademark or trade secret rights, of any third party; * if your employer has rights to intellectual property you create, you have either (i) received permission from your employer to post or make available the content, including but not limited to any software, or (ii) secured from your employer a waiver as to all rights in or to the content; * you have fully complied with any third-party licenses relating to the content, and have done all things necessary to successfully pass through to end users any required terms; * the content does not contain or install any viruses, worms, malware, trojan horses or other harmful or destructive content; * the content is not spam, is not machine- or randomly-generated, and does not contain unethical or unwanted commercial content designed to drive traffic to third party sites or boost the search engine rankings of third party sites, or to further unlawful acts (such as phishing) or mislead recipients as to the source of the material (such as spoofing); * the content is not libelous or defamatory (more info on what that means), does not contain threats or incite violence towards individuals or entities, and does not violate the privacy or publicity rights of any third party; * your content is not getting advertised via unwanted electronic messages such as spam links on newsgroups, email lists, other blogs and web sites, and similar unsolicited promotional methods; * your content is not named in a manner that misleads your readers into thinking that you are another person or company. for example, your blog or comment’s url or name is not the name of a person other than yourself or company other than your own; and * you have, in the case of content that includes computer code, accurately categorized and/or described the type, nature, uses and effects of the materials, whether requested to do so by tf content, inc. or otherwise. without limiting any of those representations or warranties, tf content, inc. has the right (though not the obligation) to, in tf content, inc.’s sole discretion (i) refuse or remove any content that, in tf content, inc.’s reasonable opinion, violates any tf content, inc. policy or is in any way harmful or objectionable, or (ii) terminate or deny access to and use of the website to any individual or entity for any reason, in tf content, inc.’s sole discretion. 2. responsibility of website visitors. tf content, inc. has not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, posted to the website, and cannot therefore be responsible for that material’s content, use or effects. by operating the website, tf content, inc. does not represent or imply that it endorses the material there posted, or that it believes such material to be accurate, useful or non-harmful. you are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. the website may contain content that is offensive, indecent, or otherwise objectionable, as well as content containing technical inaccuracies, typographical mistakes, and other errors. the website may also contain material that violates the privacy or publicity rights, or infringes the intellectual property and other proprietary rights, of third parties, or the downloading, copying or use of which is subject to additional terms and conditions, stated or unstated. tf content, inc. disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from the use by visitors of the website, or from any downloading by those visitors of content there posted. 3. content posted on other websites. we have not reviewed, and cannot review, all of the material, including computer software, made available through the websites and webpages to which fourhourworkweek.com links, and that link to fourhourworkweek.com. tf content, inc. does not have any control over those non-fourhourworkweek.com websites and webpages, and is not responsible for their contents or their use. by linking to a non-fourhourworkweek.com website or webpage, tf content, inc. does not represent or imply that it endorses such website or webpage. you are responsible for taking precautions as necessary to protect yourself and your computer systems from viruses, worms, trojan horses, and other harmful or destructive content. tf content, inc. disclaims any responsibility for any harm resulting from your use of non-fourhourworkweek.com websites and webpages. 4. copyright infringement and dmca policy. as tf content, inc. asks others to respect its intellectual property rights, it respects the intellectual property rights of others. if you believe that material located on or linked to by fourhourworkweek.com violates your copyright, you are encouraged to notify tf content, inc. in accordance with standard digital millennium copyright act (”dmca”) policy. tf content, inc. will respond to all such notices, including as required or appropriate by removing the infringing material or disabling all links to the infringing material. in the case of a visitor who may infringe or repeatedly infringes the copyrights or other intellectual property rights of tf content, inc. or others, tf content, inc. may, in its discretion, terminate or deny access to and use of the website. in the case of such termination, tf content, inc. will have no obligation to provide a refund of any amounts previously paid to tf content, inc.. 5. corrections, suggestions, and complaints. we welcome comments and suggestions, as well as complaints about errors, on the website that warrant correction. comments and suggestions, as well as complaints about errors, can be submitted through this form. please click here to fill it out. readers dissatisfied with a response may reach us via email at phaggerty [at] perkinscoie (dot) com. seneca and marcus, llc, as well as its affiliated companies, welcome comments and suggestions on, as well as complaints about errors in, the 4-hour workweek, the 4-hour body and/or the 4-hour chef that warrant correction. comments and suggestions, as well as complaints about errors, can be submitted through this form. please click here to fill it out. readers dissatisfied with a response may reach us via email at phaggerty [at] perkinscoie (dot) com. 6. intellectual property. this agreement does not transfer from tf content, inc. to you any tf content, inc. or third party intellectual property, and all right, title and interest in and to such property will remain (as between the parties) solely with tf content, inc.. tf content, inc., fourhourworkweek.com, the “the 4-hour workweek” logo, and all other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with fourhourworkweek.com, or the website are trademarks or registered trademarks of seneca and marcus, llc; timothy ferriss; alta malbec, inc.; tf content, inc; or licensors of the aforementioned companies. other trademarks, service marks, graphics and logos used in connection with the website may be the trademarks of other third parties. your use of the website grants you no right or license to reproduce or otherwise use any tf content, inc. or third-party trademarks. you hereby grant tf content, inc. an irrevocable, perpetual, non-exclusive, transferable, fully paid, worldwide license (with the right to sublicense) to (a) use, copy, publish, stream, store, retain, publicly perform or display, transmit, scan, reformat, modify, edit, frame, translate, excerpt, adapt, create derivative works and distribute (through multiple tiers), any content you post on or in connection with the website or tf content, inc. services or the promotion thereof and (b) to use your name, likeness and image for any purpose, including commercial or advertising, each of (a) and (b) on or in connection with tf content, inc. or the promotion thereof. 7. changes. tf content, inc. reserves the right, at its sole discretion, to modify or replace any part of this agreement. it is your responsibility to check this agreement periodically for changes. your continued use of or access to the website following the posting of any changes to this agreement constitutes acceptance of those changes. tf content, inc. may also, in the future, offer new services and/or features through the website (including, the release of new tools and resources). such new features and/or services shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this agreement. 8. termination. tf content, inc. may terminate your access to all or any part of the website at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective immediately. if you wish to terminate this agreement, you may simply discontinue using the website. all provisions of this agreement which by their nature should survive termination shall survive termination, including, without limitation, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of liability. 9. disclaimer of warranties. the website is provided “as is”. tf content, inc. and its suppliers and licensors hereby disclaim all warranties of any kind, express or implied, including, without limitation, the warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose and non-infringement. neither tf content, inc. nor its suppliers and licensors, makes any warranty that the website will be error free or that access thereto will be continuous or uninterrupted. if you’re actually reading this, here’s a treat. you understand that you download from, or otherwise obtain content or services through, the website at your own discretion and risk. 10. limitation of liability. in no event will tf content, inc., or its suppliers or licensors, be liable with respect to any subject matter of this agreement under any contract, negligence, strict liability or other legal or equitable theory for: (i) any special, incidental or consequential damages; (ii) the cost of procurement or substitute products or services; (iii) for interruption of use or loss or corruption of data; or (iv) for any amounts that exceed the fees paid by you to tf content, inc. under this agreement during the twelve (12) month period prior to the cause of action. tf content, inc. shall have no liability for any failure or delay due to matters beyond their reasonable control. the foregoing shall not apply to the extent prohibited by applicable law. 11. general representation and warranty. you represent and warrant that (i) your use of the website will be in strict accordance with the tf content, inc. privacy policy, with this agreement and with all applicable laws and regulations (including without limitation any local laws or regulations in your country, state, city, or other governmental area, regarding online conduct and acceptable content, and including all applicable laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the united states or the country in which you reside) and (ii) your use of the website will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of any third party. 12. indemnification. you agree to indemnify and hold harmless tf content, inc., its contractors, and its licensors, and their respective directors, officers, employees and agents from and against any and all claims and expenses, including attorneys’ fees, arising out of your use of the website, including but not limited to out of your violation this agreement. 13. miscellaneous. this agreement constitutes the entire agreement between tf content, inc. and you concerning the subject matter hereof, and they may only be modified by a written amendment signed by an authorized executive of tf content, inc., or by the posting by tf content, inc. of a revised version. except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise, this agreement, any access to or use of the website will be governed by the laws of the state of california, u.s.a., excluding its conflict of law provisions, and the proper venue for any disputes arising out of or relating to any of the same will be the state and federal courts located in san francisco county, california. except for claims for injunctive or equitable relief or claims regarding intellectual property rights (which may be brought in any competent court without the posting of a bond), any dispute arising under this agreement shall be finally settled in accordance with the comprehensive arbitration rules of the judicial arbitration and mediation service, inc. (“jams”) by three arbitrators appointed in accordance with such rules. the arbitration shall take place in san francisco, california, in the english language and the arbitral decision may be enforced in any court. the prevailing party in any action or proceeding to enforce this agreement shall be entitled to costs and attorneys’ fees. if any part of this agreement is held invalid or unenforceable, that part will be construed to reflect the parties’ original intent, and the remaining portions will remain in full force and effect. a waiver by either party of any term or condition of this agreement or any breach thereof, in any one instance, will not waive such term or condition or any subsequent breach thereof. you may assign your rights under this agreement to any party that consents to, and agrees to be bound by, its terms and conditions; tf content, inc. may assign its rights under this agreement without condition. this agreement will be binding upon and will inure to the benefit of the parties, their successors and permitted assigns. share this: facebook twitter email reddit print join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 most popular pages 11 reasons not to become famous (or “a few lessons learned since 2007”) podcast – the tim ferriss show the best books and articles i read in 2019 finding the one decision that removes 100 decisions (or, why i’m reading no new books in 2020) topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.