home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library terms and conditions these terms and conditions govern your use of our website. our terms have been provided and approved by legal documents provider legalcentre.co.uk. please read the terms in full before you use this website. if you do not accept these terms, please do not use this website. using the website implies that you accept these terms. we do occasionally update these terms so please refer back to them in the future. table of contents 1. site access 2. use of website 3. site uptime 4. visitor conduct 5. links to and from other websites 6. disclaimer 7. exclusion of liability 8. governing jurisdiction 9. our details 1. site access 1.1 you will be able to access the majority of this website without having to register any details with us. [however, particular areas of this website will only be accessible only if you have registered.] 2. use of website 2.1 you are permitted to use our website for your own purposes and to print and download material from this website provided that you do not modify any content without our consent. material on this website must not be republished online or offline without our permission. 2.2 the copyright and other intellectual property rights in all material on this website are owned by us or our licensors and must not be reproduced without our prior consent. 2.3 subject to paragraph 2.1, no part of this website may be reproduced without our prior written permission. 3. site uptime 3.1 we take all reasonable steps to ensure that this website is available 24 hours every day, 365 days per year. however, websites do sometimes encounter downtime due to server and, other technical issues. therefore we will not be liable if this website is unavailable at any time. 3.2 this website may be temporarily unavailable due to issues such as system failure, maintenance or repair or for reasons beyond our control. where possible we will try to give our visitors advance warning of maintenance issues but shall not be obliged to do so. 4. visitor conduct 4.1 with the exception of personally identifiable information, the use of which is covered under our privacy policy here, any material you send or post to this website shall be considered non-proprietary and not confidential. unless you advise to the contrary we will be free to copy, disclose, distribute, incorporate and otherwise use such material for any and all purposes. 4.2 when using this website you shall not post or send to or from this website any material: (a) for which you have not obtained all necessary consents; (b) that is discriminatory, obscene, pornographic, defamatory, liable to incite racial hatred, in breach of confidentiality or privacy, which may cause annoyance or inconvenience to others, which encourages or constitutes conduct that would be deemed a criminal offence, give rise to a civil liability, or otherwise is contrary to the law in the united kingdom; (c) which is harmful in nature including, and without limitation, computer viruses, trojan horses, corrupted data, or other potentially harmful software or data. 4.3 [we will fully co-operate with any law enforcement authorities or court order requiring us to disclose the identity or other details of any person posting material to this website in breach of paragraph 4.2.] 5. links to and from other websites 5.1 any links to third party websites located on this website are provided for your convenience only. we have not reviewed each third party website and have no responsibility for such third party websites or their content. we do not endorse the third party websites or make representations about them or any material contained in them. if you choose to access a third party website linked to from this website, it is at your own risk. 5.2 if you would like to link to this website, you may only do so on the basis that you link to, but do not replicate, any page on this website, and subject to the following conditions: (a) you do not in any way imply that we are endorsing any services or products unless this has been specifically agreed with us; (b) you do not misrepresent your relationship with us or present any false information about us; (c) you do not link from a website that is not owned by you; and (d) your website does not contain content that is offensive, controversial, infringes any intellectual property rights or other rights of any other person or does not comply in any way with the law in the united kingdom. 5.3 if you choose to link to our website in breach of paragraph 5.2 you shall fully indemnify us for any loss or damage suffered as a result of your actions. 6. disclaimer 6.1 we take all reasonable steps to ensure that the information on this website is correct. however, we do not guarantee the correctness or completeness any intellectual property right. we may make changes to the material on this website at any time and without notice. the material on this website may be out of date, or on rare occasions incorrect and we make no commitment to ensure that such material is correct or up to date. 6.2 the material at this website is provided without any conditions or warranties of any kind. to the maximum extent permitted by law, we provide access and use of this website on the basis that we exclude all representations, warranties and conditions which but for these terms may have effect in relation to this website. 7. exclusion of liability 7.1 neither we nor any other party (whether or not involved in producing, maintaining or delivering this website), shall be liability or responsible for any kind of loss or damage that may result to you or a third party as a result of your or their use of our website. this exclusion shall include servicing or repair costs and, without limitation, any other direct, indirect or consequential loss, and whether in tort or contract or otherwise in connection with this website. 7.2 nothing in these terms shall exclude or limit liability for (i) death or personal injury caused by negligence (as defined by the unfair contract terms act 1977); (ii) fraud; (iii) misrepresentation as to a fundamental matter; or (iv) any liability which cannot be excluded or limited under the law of the united kingdom. 8. governing jurisdiction this legal notice shall be governed by and construed in accordance with english law. any dispute(s) arising in connection with this legal notice are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of england and wales. 9. our details 9.1 our business’s name is: motherhood diaries ltd 9.2 our business address is: 10 cameron crescent, edgware, middlesex ha80fn, uk 9.3 our contact details are: mrs leyla preston, owner and editor – leyla@motherhooddiaries.com about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok