instant search parenting • living • loving parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy posts tagged "terra20" navigation parenting maternity babies as they grow activities, playtime and learning activities and crafts learning play food and drink recipes food drink kitchen tips travel around ottawa family travel lifestyle beauty eco living entertainment giving health and wellness home relationships shopping about contact work with rebecca holiday gift guide policies and disclosure work with rebecca media and press media and press business blogging blogjam atlantic 2018 attendees – free printable small business social media giveaways privacy policy tag archives: terra20 rebecca 3 min read december 4, 2018 64 replies enter to win! a terra20 gift basket (valued at $125) eco living, giving have you been a busy elf prepping for the holidays? baking, shopping, decorating, getting the kids concert outfits ready and more? it’s early in december but we are in full holiday mode around here. no matter how you spend december (whether you celebrate the season or not), it’s a good time of year to reflect on some of our habits and make a few resolutions for the new year, in particular, when it comes to our shopping decisions and the effect they have on our environment, our bodies and our futures. i’ve teamed up with terra20, one of my favourite stores, to bring you a very special giveaway, just for you! throughout the past many years, you’ve read about my own personal shift to more conscious, sustainable habits in our home and when it comes to my personal care products for myself and family. over the years, i’ve become more aware of the reusable containers and packaging we use in the home, beauty products that i buy for myself, bathing products for the kids, cleaning supplies, and other household decisions. i slowly, but surely, have tried to become more ‘green’ in my efforts and i know many of you have as well, or are interested in doing that do. enter to win a custom created gift package from @exploreterra20 and @bitofmomsense click to tweet want to win? if you want to start making changes in the new year, i applaud you. my friends at terra20 have great information in store and on their website to help you find the products that you are looking for (and i have been writing monthly articles on their site with information i think you’ll find helpful too!) so that’s why i’m excited to have teamed up with them to offer one lucky blog reader the chance to win a custom gift box from terra20. this gift set is going to be personally curated by myself and their team to find the best products based on your needs (and of course it will include some of my personal favourites!) i’ll be in touch with the winner to ask a few questions about products of interest to ensure we create the best gift for them. terra20 and i want to help you make more eco-friendly buying decisions in future and we are hoping this is one step in the right direction! enter to win simply visit the terra20 website or blog and comment on this post below letting us know what changes you are making this holiday season to be more eco-friendly, or what you want to do in the new year to take steps for more sustainable, green habits. and by random, one lucky reader will be chosen as the winner. use this little rafflecopter entry form to ensure you get all your entries counted! a rafflecopter giveaway thank you for entering and taking the next steps for a greener future. this giveaway is open to canadian residents (void in qc) for those of legal age. one winner will be selected and contacted to arrange to mail a special gift. giveaway closes december 10 th , 2018 at 9 pm december 11th at 11:59 pm est. that’s actually more time to enter! sorry for the mix up! the rafflecopter form is the correct date. prize is estimated around $125 retail value. rebecca 4 min read november 22, 2017 no reply gifts with meaning at terra20 shopping the main reason why i love buying gifts and giving gifts is because i adore trying to find something that i think the other person will just love. not only love, but hopefully feel something – whether it’s sentiment, excitement or laughter. i love the reaction and it warms my heart. it’s why i spend so long searching, hunting and finding the right gift. in addition, when the gifts i buy also happen to be meaningful, it means that my heart is full too. whether it’s fair trade, or made locally, or reduces our environment impact, those gifts with meaning are just as important. i recently went shopping at terra20 (who is a blog advertiser,but i am a customer there. a lot.) and filled a bag with household items we needed, plus a few gifts that are tucked away. i also was on the look out in the store and online for meaningful gifts that you may enjoy giving this holiday season. give gifts with meaning this holiday season. here are some options from @exploreterra20 via @bitofmomsense click to tweet here are a few terra20 items that you’ll be happy to give, and why they are so meaningful. this gorgeous glass ornament i snapped this photo in the store and you’ll be mesmerized by the options if you go in too. you can also find a beautiful snowflake online. these glass blown ornaments by kitras are made by a family owned company in fergus, ontario using recycled glass so you can feel good about the source. a lovely pouch made from recycled material 1% of sales from these pouches by blue q are donated back to environmental causes. i like this travel themed pouch. bonus: want to really wow? put something like a hotel reservation or travel gift card in the pouch! (hint) barefoot venus bath and body products i know, i know, barefoot venus is always on my list for basically everything, but i love it and buy their stuff all the time. a portion of the proceeds from the ginger snap holiday line will be donated to grassroots organizations that help families and individuals living with autism. so you can feel good about giving this gift. this massage oil is just what a tired mama needs! nova scotia fisherman travel set i love gift packs. they always look like such a complete gift, plus, often have smaller sizes of products to try and potentially fall in love with them. this travel set includes lotion, lip balm, rescue balm and soap. plus, nova scotia fisherman a portion of each sale donated to the nature conservancy of canada. your earth-loving friend will love this! a beauty gift pack i love the look of this gift set, plus, to be honest, i love the thought of getting new makeup to try as a gift. makeup can sometimes feel like an indulgence so spoil that person in your life who wants to try a new shade of lipstick but may not want to splurge. they’ll also love that it’s toxic free, cruelty free, and gluten free. saint cosmetics are made in canada and through a portion of their sales they donate to interval house. this holiday season, think about the meaning behind each gift. whether it’s from a local shop owner, a canadian artisan, or if it supports your environmental values, gift giving can truly be made more special thanks to meaningful, thoughtful presents. terra20 has many eco-friendly, unique gifts to give everyone on your list! disclosure: terra20 is a blog advertiser. all opinions are my own. and yes, i want all of these items on the list! rebecca 2 min read july 18, 2017 no reply making the switch to more natural personal care products parenting how a green beaver presentation at terra20 reminded me that i still have work to do in june, i had the opportunity to hear the owner of green beaver speak at terra20. for many years now in the ottawa area, green beaver has been leading the way in producing and providing personal care products that are natural, free of ingredients that could be harmful, and that are greener for every member of the family. i’ve been familiar with green beaver for a number of years and have been a customer. the kids used the toothpaste when they were first learning to brush, and i’ve purchased the hand soap for use in our bathrooms (i liked the foaming pump!) but hearing the passion behind green beaver’s founding and the work that alain and karen put into the company was inspiring. terra20 often hosts informative sessions like this (you can stay in the know on their website or by signing up for their newsletter) and i was glad i went. while i have switched almost all of my personal care products since my first child was born (for about 10 years we’ve been doing this!) it reminded me that i still had more learning to do – that there are some products that i wasn’t letting go of as easily, or that i switched back to regular pharmacy options. we’ve made a choice to select natural products that we think are healthier for our family. it hasn’t happened overnight, and even within the natural choices, there are ‘better for us’ products that either work better or that we remain loyal to. thank you green beaver for the reminder and the important information you shared with other families. thank you terra20 for continuing to host events like this and for helping us make sense of all the options that are out there. when i left the seminar, i grabbed some green beaver toothpaste, just like i did when the kids were younger. rebecca 1 min read february 7, 2017 no reply how i received free product at terra20 (and you can too!) shopping did you know that if you register a shopping account with terra20, you earn points during the year, and then in the first part of the next year those points become shopping dollars? that’s exactly how i earned $80 in 2016 that i was able to use in january at the store to restock my body lotion, hair supplies, deodorant and more! how great is that? it’s easy to register (online or in person) for the terra20 registered guest rewards and each time you check out in store an associate will ask you if you have an account. then you accumulate a return if you spend over $200 in the year. it works online too (which is handy when i can’t make it into the store! plus, they have free shipping on orders over $49, and at times, they offer free shipping!) the credit you receive is based on 10% of your spending from the previous year if you spend between $200 and $400, and 15% when you spend over $400. the full conditions and more information can be found on their website. this program is a win-win for me. i shop at terra20 throughout the year for products for the entire family, gifts and more, and then at the beginning of a new year, i receive money back to save on my next purchase. that’s something i can get behind! terra20 is a blog advertiser rebecca 3 min read december 8, 2016 23 replies stocking stuffers from terra20 {and enter to win a $50 gift card!) shopping i love finding the perfect gifts for the stockings. andy and i exchange stockings every year (santa no longer fills ours for us!) and it’s always fun to not only repeat some of the same traditions (oh, hello socks!) but also find something new to add in. blog advertiser terra20 is stock full of stocking stuffers. i already picked up a couple from there (but can’t share here because of prying eyes!) but i’ll share a few below that may help you fill up the stockings in your home too! stockings aren’t just for the kids! these ideas will be perfect for any adult on your list who is on the nice list! plus, read on to the end for details on how you can win a $50 terra20 gift card!! barefoot venus bath bliss i love all of the barefoot venus products but these small bath bliss packages are not only the perfect stocking size, but make for a relaxing gift. pur gum a small pack of gum is a perfect little add-on for their stocking. if you are at one of the terra20 stores, you’ll notice that it’s available in a sweet little holiday package too! lip gloss i never, ever, ever have enough lip gloss. and i love mine with a bit of colour. even when i wear zero make up (which is most days) i still have a tinted lip gloss on. i love the look of this canadian made gloss! makeup brushes i don’t know why so many of us treat make up brushes like a luxury, but we do, which is why they make such a great gift. i may not want to buy them for myself, but secretly, i really want them. this pack comes with a few options for all their make up! portable cutlery i got andy portable cutlery for his stocking a few years ago. it’s handy for travel and for work, and this onyx set comes with chop sticks! enter to win a $50 terra20 gift card! comment below and tell me what you love to give or get in a stocking for your chance to win a $50 in-store terra20 gift card. giveaway closes on december 15, 2016 at 5 pm est enter to win a $50 gift card from @exploreterra20 via @bitofmomsense #ottawa click to tweet conditions: giveaway is open to ottawa area residents of legal participating age, void in quebec. gift card must be picked up at one of the three terra20 store locations within 30 days of the giveaway ending. gift card is only available to be used in store. one winner will be selected at random from eligible entries. one entry per person. winner has 48 hours after i contact them to claim prize. good luck! disclosure: terra20 is a blog advertiser. all opinions are my own. rebecca 1 min read september 6, 2016 no reply lunch containers that we love shopping i know, it’s not the most glamorous of topics, and as we just started packing school lunches (day 1, and i’m already over it), it’s kind of difficult to chat about lunch containers but i love our lunch containers! these are the reason why i don’t hate school lunches quite as much. i can pack anything in one of my handy containers. if you’ve been to terra20, you’ll have seen their huge selection of lunch containers for kids and adults. there is something for everyone – from bento style lunches, salad containers, hot/cold containers for soup and left overs and more. in this video, i share containers right from my messy kitchen drawer that have been well loved and well used over the years, plus, a couple new ones that are looking really great! a few containers that i mention: lunchbots goodbyn onyx disclosure: terra20 is a blog advertiser; all opinions are my own. rebecca 1 min read april 26, 2015 no reply natural food pantry at terra20 in ottawa lifestyle i finally had the chance to visit the natural food pantry section of terra20. you can read more about the pairing here on the terra20 website about the grand opening, plus more on their blog. it makes sense to add more food offerings at terra20, it was already a one-stop-shop for many looking for cosmestics, cleaning supplies, household items, children’s gifts and more. now, with the partnership with natural food pantry, customers can find even more of what they want for the home. the section is much bigger than i expected with rows of dry goods, jarred foods, condiments, spices and more lining the aisles. conveniently located near the food storage section of the store, the natural food pantry offerings bring just another reason to shop at terra20. i was with my son when we went and he happily picked out a container of nuts and a box of granola bars to bring home for snacks. there was even a local coffee roaster on the shelf! you can check out the natural food pantry at terra20 on pinecrest now! rebecca 3 min read may 2, 2013 15 replies guest post: mother’s day gifts from terra20 plus a chance to win! lifestyle our fabulous and earth-friendly advertiser, terra20, has put together this wonderful list of gifts for mom. there’s a little something for everyone here. you can follow terra20 on twitter and facebook for more information. plus, keep reading to find out how you can win one of two $50 terra20 gift cards! _________________________________ mother, may i? by rachelle mesheau, terra20 moms are special. they bolster our confidence when its low, they champion our successes and they help us to become the people we are today. mother’s day is sunday may 12th and we have a ton of great gifts for mom in our top 20 for may. i thought i would pull out a few that really caught my eye, and play with the idea of how you could create your own one-of-a-kind gift baskets. for the spa-loving mom at terra20 we’ve got endless spa ideas, but i’ve mixed and matched a glo white twill bath sheet, with tea forte’s new teas for the heart collection, a bean’stock soap and a delightful first blush candle. for the gardening mom why not combine consonant’s perfect sunscreen for those long afternoons in the garden, a beautiful chapelwood premium eco seed feeder and a lavender bath soak by bean’stock to soothe those sore muscles. of course, don’t forget our new addition – dig it gardening gloves, with an interior reinforced pillow top built into the inside of the glove, to protect mom’s manicure and nails! for the mom who loves to entertain the wilton warming platter is a must for everyone who loves to entertain and the global amici rainbow pitcher is perfect for lemonade and summer parties. the mom that loves to cook will enjoy fire in the kitchen’s veggie blaze seasoning, as well as some serving bowls from ecologie. for the mom with an eye for fashion any of these would be perfect for the mom who has a penchant for fashion. i’ve included icu cat-eye sunglasses, gourmet body treats mineral foundation (which is incredible!) a blue q overnight bag, and a fashion-forward nicole bridger jacket. before mother’s day, come and check out what we have to offer! ask our staff for some suggestions and see how you can create your own one-of-a-kind gift for your own one-of-a-kind mom. __________________________________ enter to win you have a chance to win one of two terra20 $50 gift cards thanks to our advertiser terra20! to win, visit the terra20 website and comment below telling me which of their may top 20 picks would be on your list too! ( i have at least 4 things i’ve been eyeing that are on that list!!) you’ll find the top 20 list link on the home page, but why not stay and browse a bit too? 😉 giveaway is open to ottawa area residents, excluding quebec. one entry per person. two winners will be drawn at random and emailed. winners have 48 hours to respond or else a new winner will be chosen. gift cards will be available for pick up at terra20. giveaway ends wednesday, may 8, 9 pm est. rebecca 3 min read march 28, 2013 no reply welcoming new advertiser: terra20! lifestyle okay, maybe terra20 isn’t new to this blog – i’ve done a giveaway and written about the store and all of their eco-living awesomeness before. i’ve mentioned on here or on facebook that they are local, highlight eco products that we use in our everyday lives, and it didn’t take me long to become a happy customer. however, please consider this the formal welcome to terra20 for coming on board as an advertiser with bit of momsense! this means it’s now my *job* to make sure you know about the cool products they have and why i love them. (tough job, right? 😉 naturally i’m excited because this is a great fit for me and my little blog. it’s easy to promote terra20 because they have solid values, useful and green products and i shop there myself for my family. win-win. what’s in store? so what did i find at the store when i went in last week? too much (ha!). we bought our usual items – cleaning products and my husband’s favourite face cream, muffin cups, chocolate, and so on. it was my andy’s first visit and he commented on how difficult it was not to buy all the things! in the litter less lunch section, you might be interested in their many containers and lunch bags (the cute ladybug/owl etc are beatrix ny. i bought my son one when he went to jk almost 3 years ago and since it’s top rack dishwasher friendly it still looks new. love it). plus, i have a serious addiction to reusable containers. the stainless containers are awesome. i have a three-tiered stainless container that i take to parks and picnics and it’s perfect. i bought stainless steel straws (that come with a cleaning brush) when i was there as well. in addition, i picked up some cute ice packs for the kids lunches and when we travel. litterless lunch items, craft supplies at terra20 other items of interest include their gorgeous and extensive kid crafting section. paints, sketch pads, an easter egg decorating kit and more await your little artists. these would fit wonderfully into easter baskets! for the first time i noticed maternity clothing! super pretty and the material feels so soft!! lastly, i’ll point out that it is finally starting to feel like spring and all the bird feeders, soil and gardening gloves are exactly what we will need – soon (i hope!). beautiful maternity clothes and spring garden items from terra20 celebrate earth month april 22 is earth day and terra20 is turning april into earth month. each week, they will be featuring products that highlight ways we can become more green – from cloth diapering, to litterless lunches, to our beauty products and cleaning products, there are many ways we can start making small differences that will have a big impact. visit their calendar of events to find out what in store events are coming up. here’s a sneak peek: march 30: mini manicures april 6: vendor visit: applecheeks cloth diapers and cloth diapering enthusiast sylvia holtrop april 20: vendor visit from ecojot (love their products) and local wood shop na coille studios (have you seen their products? cutting boards and more. beautiful). have you visited terra20 yet? lots of free parking and great finds in store! rebecca 1 min read december 2, 2012 17 replies giveaway! klippan throw from terra20 blogging, parenting ‘tis the season for giving and our friends at terra20 are wanting to share the spirit with one lucky bit of momsense winner! when i first visited the store on their grand opening, i mentioned the beautiful housewares and decor items they have in stock, including a beautiful series of wool throws. in their generosity, they gave me the houndstooth throw that i was drooling over. then, with help from klippan, they offered to give a throw to a reader too! this red klippan wool throw is perfect for a punch of colour in your decorating scheme or for the holiday season and it could be yours!! i love the warmth and look of a throw (i am a bit blanket obsessed) and love bundling up with one on the couch. but these throws have no chemicals. here’s my lovely new throw: what’s even better is that even if you don’t win this giveaway, you can buy these throws on sale at terra20. from now until december 24th, all klippan throws are on sale for 20% off! the selection is fantastic! these would make a great gift for friends, parents or a house warming present! you can win! to win the red klippan twist throw, visit the terra20 online shop and tell me one product that you are loving at the store! or, if you’ve already been to the store, what did you see that you are coveting? giveaway closes sunday, december 9. ottawa area residents only. one entry per person. winner to pick up prize at the terra20 store. older entries facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube grab a coffee and join me! welcome to a little bit of momsense! my name is rebecca and i'm chatting about parenting, family friendly activities, yummy recipes, family travel, and living a life full of love and laughter. thanks for stopping by! fabulous advertisers, friends and affiliates for content tips and support – subscribe! use code momsense10 to save 20% this error message is only visible to wordpress admins error: the account for needs to be reconnected. due to recent instagram platform changes this instagram account needs to be reconnected in order to continue updating. reconnect on plugin settings page visit rebecca's profile on pinterest. tags activities activities with kids activity around ottawa baseball birthdays blogging centrepointe theatres children christmas disney junior family family activities family time family travel food gift guide giveaway halloween holidays home kids kraft canada learning march break mothers day netflix ottawa ottawa events parenting pei pinterest play preschool activity recipe recipes school shopping sobeys summer tag along toys terra20 thanksgiving theatre travel archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 missed a post? making a greener difference with these easy changes (plus enter to win!) activity: make and design a hotel! activities for kids: subjective art a fun scavenger hunt game for the kids (with printable!) playing with cardboard – don’t recycle those boxes yet! get-moving activity: movement stations for kids 8 carry-on items to travel with: what i bring to travel family travel: hotel tips for travelling with children walt disney world planning tips: family travel ottawa giveaway: enter to win 4 tickets at meridian theatres facebook twitter pinterest instagram youtube we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website for personalization, advertising and to analyze usage. by using this site, you agree to this.continuewant more info? read our privacy policy.