skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer create and go start and build a money-making blog menumenu start a blog basics common questions what is a blog? why should you start? what does a blogger do? how much do bloggers make? how much does it cost? is blogging dead? how to choose your blog niche choose your blog name best of best blogging platforms best blog hosting best blog examples read & learn common blogging mistakes blogging terms to know why our first blog failed design blog design blog design inspiration get free blog images wordpress guides wordpress.com vs. .org best wordpress themes for blogs best wordpress plugins for blogs publish your first wordpress post transfer a free blog to wordpress blog writing blog post ideas how to write a blog blog legal pages (blog legally) grow best of best blogging tips blogging statistics productivity tips for bloggers traffic get more blog traffic get pinterest traffic get more pinterest followers ranking blog posts headline writing hacks how to build an email list become an instagram blogger make money make money blogging how to make money blogging google adsense for bloggers affiliate marketing for bloggers sell digital products & services freelance blogging successful blogs highest paid bloggers (successful blogs) student success: ramona's fitness blog read & learn 4 phases of blogging (poop to profits) why your blog isn't succeeding bloggers blogging about blogging tools best of blog name generator bluehost coupon code blogging tools & resources keyword research tools convertkit review mailchimp vs. convertkit courses guide which course is right for you? individual programs launch your blog biz pinterest avalanche six-figure blogger discounted bundles pro blogger (all courses) february 2020 $116,676.08 blog income report facebook instagram pinterest youtube about us contact us testimonials students are not just satisfied with our blogging products and teachings; they have real business results! check out some of our amazing success stories below :) how natalie became our first-ever six-figure blogger! “i bumped my income up to $4,000-5,000 pretty quickly and that was mostly just through changing all of my email sequences. there is an email sequence module in six-figure blogger that just like changed my life.” natalie bacon – nataliebacon.com how amira went from $0-10,000/month blogging with a full-time job “if i'm going to start this, then i want to learn from the best. lauren and alex demonstrated the results, were detailed, and showed the process. and i instantly had that trust.” amira law – a self guru how tim started earning an extra $1,000/month in blog income "i invested in myself and decided to take their course, six-figure blogger. i started focusing on their suggestions for my niche of physical therapy, and that generated an extra $1,000/month and that was in the first couple of months." tim fraticelli – pt progress how bola increased her sales in one week and became a six-figure blogger "everything you guys said on the sales page of what you deliver is what you deliver and more. you guys are truly what you sold." bola sokunbi – clever girl finance how rachel created her first course and makes $10,000/m from instagram "alex and lauren's course “planted the seed” for me that i could actually make a business out of working online. i had truly never even considered the idea. but their sales page was so inspiring that i thought: well yes, of course, why wouldn’t i want to make money blogging?" rachel paul – college nutritionist how rusty got over a million page views in one month with pinterest "hit the 10,000 followers milestone on pinterest yesterday. we have been following the advice in this course for a little over a year. we had 2,000 followers before starting the course." rusty moore – visual impact fitness how faith went from $0 to $2,700 blogging in 3 months “because of create and go, i was able to quit my job and make over $8,000 per month blogging about my passion – helping those struggling with mental health problems and anxiety.” faith hawks – radical transformation project how rachel launched her new blog on hairstyling "i didn't know how to create an article. i didn't know what i would write about. i didn't know how to figure out what to do with the viewers that came to my website once i had them there. but i decided that i had to learn." rachel angulo – makes make parlor how drew transformed a failed blog into a profitable $50,000 online business "in one year of freelancing, i was able to 3x my revenue and am now on track to make over $50,000 this year from my online biz." drew duboff – drewduboff.com lass="fa fa-close"> how to start a blog footer all blog posts blogging scholarship testimonials about us facebook instagram pinterest youtube © 2020 · the new grind llc dba createandgo.co is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. privacy policy terms and conditions