toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog testimonials last updated on: october 29th, 2019 writing, editing, consultancy & coaching, and author assistant services testimonials are easy to get when you have happy clients. client testimonials are powerful. they help others know what to expect from me. i have received many testimonials for the 4 different services i have performed for my clients. in fact, i wrote a blog post about this topic! the power of client testimonials (gather yours on a regular basis to help others learn about you!) the 4 types of testimonials i have below you will find: editing testimonials, writing testimonials, testimonials for consulting and coaching services (including blog/website services), and testimonials for author assistant services. 100% of my clients love the work i do and have done for them. whatever it is you are considering hiring me for, please know that customer satisfaction is my top priority! jump to my editing testimonials jump to my writing testimonials jump to my consultancy & coaching testimonials jump to my author assistant services testimonials editing testimonials: lorraine reguly is an outstanding editor with her exceptional attention to detail and amazing ability to identify inconsistencies. she is professional, fast, and responsive. lorriane significantly improved my book while maintaining my voice and style. the clear and precise explanation of her edits made the editing process enjoyable and smooth. i look forward to working with her in the future. she is highly recommended. ~ edward scott, author of hidden unknown truth october 24, 2019. lorraine is a fabulous editor and was a great fit for me! she is a stickler for detail and works hard to meet her clients editing requirements. her skills were precisely what my book needed. ~ lisa north, author of ranch stories from jackass road: a coming-of-age story october 22, 2019. i had the distinct pleasure of working with lorraine reguly as my editor and formatter on my book, signs of his light: spiritual lessons from my journey with cancer. she is extremely talented and definitely skilled in these areas. she was able to take my written words and correct them in such a way as to make them better, without changing the meaning of what i wanted to communicate with my reader. she was responsive to my concerns while also being straightforward and honest with her observations and comments. when changes were made, i always had the opportunity to review them and give my feedback. she delivered on her promises and completed my project earlier than the due date. her fees were reasonable and she worked extra hard to make sure my first publication was a success! lorraine and i connected on a level that i didn’t expect to have happen. she clearly understood my heart and i made a new friend on this journey. she is a delightful woman with whom i will work again. i highly recommend her if you need someone for your book! ~ rita carbuhn, author of signs of his light: spiritual lessons from my journey with cancer july 28, 2019. original testimonial: “my first experience with lorraine has been great! she’s awesome and i’m very glad to be a client of her’s and would highly recommended her if you want a freelance writing, blogging or editing. she help me edited my writing and may i say i’m very pleased she responds back to me in a very timely matter and is very nice answering any questions you may have and also gives you great suggestions! i will definitely consider anyone to hiring lorraine she’s great to work with and her prices are fair, thank you again lorraine!” edited testimonial (edited by lorraine reguly and posted with permission): “my first experience with lorraine was great! she’s awesome and i’m very glad to be a client of hers. i would highly recommend her if you want freelance writing, blogging, or editing done. she helped me edit my writing. i’m very pleased she responded back to me in a very timely manner. she was very nice, answered all my questions, and gave me great suggestions! lorraine is great to work with and her prices are fair. thank you, again, lorraine!” ~ tevin murry may 24, 2019 lorraine did terrific work for me on covey and jayjay get educated. she made thoughtful and educated fixes; she quickly answered my (sometimes dumb) questions; and she even finished the entire project a day or two early. she made the book better. i strongly recommend her. ~ shelton l. williams, author of the covey jencks novels january 15, 2019. i found working with you very enjoyable and your regular updates as to your progress very helpful. i also liked the way you continued to keep the entire picture of the story and found the small inconsistencies that needed to be fixed. i would recommend anyone writing a book utilize your services. ~ karl krueger nov. 23, 2018. it was great working with lorraine, good communication, on time, and very happy with the minute details taken care of. ~ aj march 5, 2018. lorraine reguly of wording well edited my book, asset strippers. she did a superb job, offering some really good ideas about how to significantly improve the script. lorraine was easy to work with, doing copy editing, line editing, and pointing out all the inconsistencies of people, dates, and events that had occurred during the writing of the story. i can highly recommend the accuracy and timeliness of her work as well as her insight into the substance of a story given to her. i will certainly use her services again. ~ bert berger, business owner and author of asset strippers, a business and crime story sept. 3, 2018. what do you do when the author of the foreword for your book delivers it to you in an audio file? well, you transcribe it, of course. then what do you do if doesn’t flow and is not in the writing style you want to introduce your book because it doesn’t shed the book (or the author of the foreword) in a good light? here’s what you do: you hire lorraine reguly at wording well! this is exactly what i did, and i couldn’t be happier! lorraine took all the stress out of the equation. not only was i surprised (and grateful) for the one-day turnaround, but the quality of the edit was outstanding. lorraine was able to get the words flowing while still ensuring the essence of the writer lived on. i’ll definitely be using lorraine’s services for all my future writing projects and highly recommend that you do the same. (lorraine also worked her magic on editing this testimonial, with my blessing.) ~ tim cooper, founder of tim cooper education and the wellness business breakthrough, and author of video & online marketing strategies for wellness professionals: unleash the power of video. stand out, get seen & grow july 30, 2018. when i needed an editor to edit my short ebook on weight loss and lifestyle change called losing ten kilos, i contacted lorraine reguly. she responded very quickly and put up a fair price. i am very happy with her services as she was prompt and it was very easy to work with her. i give her my recommendation and will be using her services again when needed. ~ robert marvin, author of losing ten kilos may 22, 2018. lorraine helped turn my very first book into something beautiful. her attention to detail, professional approach, and commitment to keeping my style was more than i could’ve asked for. not only did she do a great job at helping me, she also turned this project around in less time than i originally anticipated. i appreciated the professionalism, responsiveness, and encouragement that i received all throughout this process. i will definitely use lorraine again to assist me in making any future works really come to life! i definitely couldn’t have gotten this project done without her time and expertise! ~ jacob bagley, author of the rational anthem april 5, 2018. wording well was very professional. lorraine offered a fast and simple process. i will definitely be using your services again! ~ mishawn childers (currently in the process of setting up a website) august 23, 2017. i hired lorraine to edit my book, the power of ego. i was very happy with her attention to details and her immaculate editing skills. she is thorough, professionally committed, and will polish your writing whenever necessary and provide very valuable comments to elevate your text. thanks, lorraine! ~ rémi meyer, author of the power of ego february 6, 2018. lorraine is great to work with – she was quick and clear in her communication, delivered her work ahead of schedule, and offered lots of helpful hints along the way. ~ justin nassiri, from beyond the uniform, and author of veterans in consulting february 1, 2018. lorraine is an excellent editor, the only you’ll ever need. she removed the errors, corrected the grammar, and polished the sentences all within the time-frame. i would highly recommend hiring her. ~ aman thakur, blogger at emailfield september 2017 wording well was very professional. lorraine offered a fast and simple process. i will definitely be using your services again! ~ mishawn childers (currently in the process of setting up a website) august 23, 2017. when you are a first-time author, self-publishing a book on amazon can be a daunting task. lorraine went above and beyond the call of duty to help me get my book up and running. i was a professional sportswriter for seven years, and wrote for the largest paper in the world. but every writer needs a good editor to turn their copy from good to great. lorraine was the perfect compliment, as her keen eye and suggestions helped transform my book into an amazon best-seller. ~ bob abramson, motivational speaker, lawyer, and author of wow your clients. how to land clients and build long-lasting relationships february 5, 2017. lorraine’s content edits and recommendations for my article helped elevate the level of writing, produce a logical flow of words, and significantly improve the end product. her work demonstrated her ability to perceive the principles of my field of competence in no time. lorraine’s questions about the subject matter were thought-provoking and led me to changes that vastly improved my article. lorraine is experienced and knowledgeable and is a great pleasure to work with. i highly recommend her services. ~ ron sela, marketing expert june 20, 2016. before my book was edited by lorraine, the rank of this book was terrible. after editing, it sat at the triple #1 spot for weeks! (see lorraine listed as the editor, too.) ~don orwell, author of superfoods cookbook: over 95 quick & easy gluten free low cholesterol whole foods recipes full of antioxidants & phytochemicals (natural weight loss transformation book 29) february 24, 2016. i am thoroughly impressed with how lorraine edited my book, leading you out of the darkness into the light, because she managed to weave the idea of walking a path and taking steps throughout it. also, she reworked the sections to where they make more sense and are more organized. one of the happiest things i’ve done in a long time was to click the “pay now” button for her on paypal. in short, when you hire lorraine to edit your own work, you are getting a qualified full service wordsmith who will produce something you will be proud of. ~maxwell ivey, jr., author of leading you out of the darkness into the light: a blind man’s inspirational guide to success and owner of the blind blogger sometime in 2016 lorraine is my go-to editor for books, pdfs and some of my blog posts because she has improved and even salvaged most of my works without forcing it to lose its personality. thorough and professional, she will surely help you take that next step as an author or blogger. ~ dave chesson, kindlepreneur sometime in 2016 one time i wrote a blog post and sent it to lorraine to get her opinion on it. i thought it was good, but when i got it back from her, i was floored by how much better it was when she had worked her magic on it. she added bullet points, something that i had never managed to master. and, she went out on the web and found a couple of articles to link to the post. also, she located specific information on dates and number of views of posts i had mentioned. and she added transitions that made my post flow so much more smoothly. and naturally she took her red pen to my spelling, punctuation, and grammar without taking away from my own natural writing style. i ended up sending her this email afterwards. you rock! you turned a good post into something really special. i have never had a post that is 7 ways or 9 things before. the additions you made are perfect! ~mr. midway, the midway marketplace sometime in 2016 i hired lorraine to edit one of my blog posts as a trial assignment for bigger projects down the road. i didn’t like the way i have written the post – but with a few quick tweaks she made it read well and easy, excellent job. everything i didn’t like in the post – she managed to fix with a magic wand. recommended! ~diana marinova, freelance marketing consultant sometime in 2015 you really did a fabulous job and you’re right — you really do know how to punctuate a sentence and you have an eagle eye! ~karen dodd, author of deadly switch: a stone suspense sometime in 2014 i have worked with lorraine extensively in 2013 and could not be happier with her attitude, experience, work ethic and the results. lorraine knows what she is talking about when it comes to editing, as she has a lot of experience in this field. she is also extremely thorough and ensures that every i is dotted and t is crossed. communication is also a strong point of lorraine’s – she will keep you informed of what is going on, and always delivers on time. i would have no hesitation working with lorraine again and would recommend her as an editor to anyone. ~ ashley faulkes, mad lemmings, web designer, blogger, and social media coach sometime in 2014 lorraine reguly has all the qualities that writers need–not necessarily what they want, but what they need. none of us likes to have someone point out our mistakes, but that is exactly what is essential if we are going to polish our work to publication readiness. lorraine’s sharp eyes and attention to detail become the stone that grinds away the impurities. she has an excellent command of language, syntax, punctuation, spelling and grammar, as well as the retention for continuity and cohesiveness. while working together on stone’s ghost, she found errors that many other readers did not, and asked questions about ambiguous points that made me rethink my intent and increase my clarity. her editing skills are both helpful and essential. i am extremely grateful for her help and would gladly recommend her to any writer. ~melissa bowersock, author of stone’s ghost (and many other books!) sometime in 2014 top writing testimonials: i have always been skeptical about ordering services online mostly because there is no real metric to compare the quality or decide if it was value for money. however, i took a chance and order consultancy as well as writing services from wording well and i have to say i am really impressed. i ordered consultancy to get help in picking up a college for my studies as well as sorting out other issues and it really helped me. i also ordered writing services as i needed help to write and proofread my sop for the college and the turnaround time was amazing. i got the response within a day with helpful comments on how i can improve it. overall, both the services were worth the money and helped me secure an offer letter from multiple colleges. ~ anmol mehrotra, from giz central november 22, 2018. lorraine was a pleasure to work with in writing a guest post for the wonder of tech. her talents in writing may only be exceeded by her professionalism. and, lorraine was responsive immediately as i reached out to her with edits and suggestions. her judgment was grounded as she firmly adhered to her position on some points and agreed to changes on other points. her passion for her work showed through as her article gained not only strong traffic, but active engagement by the readers. i look forward to having the opportunity to working with lorraine again.. ~ carolyn nicander mohr, lawyer, technical guru, blogger, and owner of the wonder of tech sometime in 2016 lorraine was a real pleasure to work with. she wrote excellent content and delivered all of it before the deadline with the utmost perfection. i would love to work with her again in near future. ~ rahul sharma, owner of several writing companies sometime in 2014 i’ve worked with lorraine on creating detailed content for clients. lorraine is always responsive, very conscientious, very thorough, and she has a great gift for creating unique and compelling content that engages the reader. i highly recommend hiring and working with lorraine for any of your specialized content needs. ~ brandon schaefer, ceo of 90 day entrepreneur and entice online marketing sometime in 2014 creating content online is a lonely business. but not with lorraine. she brought me out of a classic “blogger’s slump” and took my business to a whole new level. i’m not sure what it is—her understanding of audiences, her ability to make a c post an a, or her honesty where others wouldn’t dare—but she is amazing. i recommend you set up a skype with lorraine today. ~ greg narayan, dear blogger sometime in 2013 i first worked with lorraine when she submitted a post for my blog. her post offered excellent writing tips, and i could see that she really “got” what my blog was about. that post then inspired our collaboration leading a 30-day writing challenge that motivated the participants to write, helped spread the word about my business, and led to several new clients for me. lorraine’s inspiration was just what my fledgling blog needed to take flight. her passion for writing shows through in everything she does, and she is a delight to work with. ~ sue mitchell, memoir writing coach sometime in 2013 top testimonials for consulting + coaching services (including blog/website services) i started following lorraine’s blog sites and it’s changed my life. i am a newbie to all things technical, but lorraine’s how-to blog posts have enabled me to create better posts using new technology. she has also inspired me by writing about herself in a straightforward, no-nonsense way. she describes her struggles and pitfalls as well as her triumphs and victories. her ebook “risky issues” is a fantastic read. i absolutely lost myself in her writing. and, she has inspired me to finish and publish a book of my own, “everyone evelon.” i have even contacted her for assistance with my blog issues and she responds in a timely manner with encouragement, support, and the right way to solve my issue. i look forward to her blog posts every week. ~ jo ann plante, author of everyone evelon , from write, read, delight, indeed! sometime in 2015 lorraine has helped me improve my social media profiles and my blind blogger website. i trust her to the point that she has my passwords and is welcome to go into my site at any time to correct problems or make improvements. also, each time i appear online in a guest post, podcast, or interview, i tag her on facebook and she automatically updates my “as seen online” page without me having to ask her to. she’s always on top of things and i love her for it! ~maxwell ivey, the blind blogger sometime in 2015 lorraine has many valuable life experiences to share and she is particularly gifted as a writer and poet. lorraine is very open and prepared to consider new possibilities. also, she has a positive attitude and is an encouraging mentor. ~ anonymous ampower client (see screenshot below) sometime in 2015 top testimonials for author assistant services when you are a first-time author, self-publishing a book on amazon can be a daunting task. lorraine went above and beyond the call of duty to help me get my book up and running. i was a professional sportswriter for seven years, and wrote for the largest paper in the world. but every writer needs a good editor to turn their copy from good to great. lorraine was the perfect compliment, as her keen eye and suggestions helped transform my book into an amazon best-seller. ~ bob abramson, motivational speaker, lawyer, and author of wow your clients. how to land clients and build long-lasting relationships february 5, 2017. a lot of work went into publishing my book, leading you out of the darkness into the light. initially, lorraine performed magic on it by editing it. she organized my document into the book it is now. she divided it into chapters, with headings and titles. also, she clarified my exercises and improved their instructions. she even reordered things in a few places, so that they would make more sense to the reader. then lorraine helped me create an author bio page to add to the book. lorraine was also responsible for creating the front matter of the book (the contents of the copyright page), complete with proper attributions to the right people. i had help creating the image for my book cover, but was unsure as to whether or not i had full permission to use the image my designer selected. so lorraine tracked down the original owner, sent her an email explaining the situation, and ended up obtaining permission to use it, provided we credited her with the copyright. it’s a great relief knowing that i haven’t left myself open to a lawsuit and that lorraine was conscientious enough to make sure of this. when it came time to turn the ebook version into a print book, lorraine helped me every step of the way. she solved many problems i had and then made sure each of files were perfect before uploading the different files to the various sites where my book is being sold. she ordered a physical copy and proofed it, too, because there are always last-minute changes to make. without her help, i couldn’t have made my book available to the world as a print version. i’m grateful for all the work lorraine did for me, and i’m proud to call myself a published author now! ~ maxwell ivey, jr., the blind blogger, author of leading you out of the darkness into the light: a blind man’s inspirational guide to success and it’s not the cookie, it’s the bag: an easy-to-follow guide for weight loss success sometime in 2015 top please check out my portfolio or contact me for a quote today! ~lorraine wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! and many more! © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy