ad policy skip to content facebook twitter instagram donate log in coronavirus election 2020 opp-art migrant voices podcasts politics world climate culture shop current issue newsletters subscribe search toggle menu log in fb tw mail msg wa sms politics world climate culture shop subscribe current issue newsletters donate log in facebook twitter instagram by using this website, you consent to our use of cookies. for more information, visit our privacy policyx log in email * password * remember me forgot your password? log in new to the nation? subscribe print subscriber? activate your online access workers are warriors in the fight against the coronavirus the pandemic is putting the lives of countless workers at risk. they deserve a new deal. jeet heer gender and sexuality this was never just about woody allen. it still isn’t. against the vice cop of the mind. joann wypijewski society congratulations, your kids are now your coworkers tips on how to survive the lockdown with your children and sanity intact—by a veteran of working from home. elie mystal inequality 12 coronavirus funds that will help the most vulnerable the stimulus package won’t reach everyone who needs help right now. shirley ngozi nwangwa ad policy latest from the nation today 5:30 pm sports athlete activists respond to the coronavirus pandemic using their fame to enlighten, raise awareness, and shame their bosses, here are some athletes who have made a difference. dave zirin today 8:00 am environment polar depressed benjamin slyngstad today 7:30 am unemployment this is what an opposition party is supposed to sound like john nichols today 5:59 am mental health my anxious wife is stockpiling pop-tarts! what should i do? today 5:59 am working conditions the postal service is breaking down today 5:59 am working conditions if sanitation workers don’t work, nothing works today 5:59 am transgender rights to stop anti-trans legislation, abolish the settler state today 5:45 am health and disease the good, the bad, and the ugly with covid-19 today 5:00 am national security this pandemic is exposing the futility of the national security state yesterday 2:36 pm politics the coronavirus is trump’s latest excuse to militarize the border ad policy coronavirus response if sanitation workers don’t work, nothing works meet the men and women risking illness to keep new york’s streets clean. ross barkan the crisis in wuhan ‘forced me to become political’ as the city prepares to reopen after two months of lockdown, a resident shares why she’ll never see chinese society the same way again. jessie lau the postal service is breaking down covid-19 has already begun to take its toll on the overextended usps workforce. jake bittle editor's picks ‘horror story after horror story’: a frontline nurse discusses the crisis sarah jaffe my anxious wife is stockpiling pop-tarts! what should i do? liza featherstone politics the coronavirus is trump’s latest excuse to militarize the border leaked documents show customs and border protection requested more than 1,500 extra troops to guard the canadian and mexican borders. ken klippenstein the supreme court just made it easier to get away with discrimination what makes the decision all the more terrible is that the court ruled unanimously to weaken the civil rights protection at the center of the case. elie mystal this is what an opposition party is supposed to sound like bernie sanders’s moral outrage and devastating sarcasm struck back against a gop assault on poor and low-income workers. john nichols covid-19 health and disease think exotic animals are to blame for the coronavirus? think again. scientists have fingered bats and pangolins as potential sources of the virus, but the real blame lies elsewhere—with human assaults on the environment. sonia shah reparations history since emancipation, the united states has refused to make reparations for slavery but in 1862, the federal government doled out the 2020 equivalent of $23 million—not to the formerly enslaved but to their white enslavers. kali holloway world cuba’s welcome to a covid-19-stricken cruise ship reflects a long pattern of global humanitarian commitment “thank you, cuba…. we will never ever forget that you reached out to us when absolutely nobody, and i mean nobody, else would.’’ peter kornbluh we’re struggling with the coronavirus in spain—but we’re vastly more prepared than the us i am locked down in barcelona, but at least there is universal health care and a tradition of mutual support. ben ehrenreich the gaza strip has been under siege for years. covid-19 could be catastrophic. israel, which continues to control gaza’s borders, has for decades intentionally weakened the economy and health of the world’s largest open-air prison. neve gordon editor's picks bill gates gives to the rich (including himself) tim schwab inside a murder trial in krasner-era philadelphia ernest owens nation voices katrina vanden heuvel the coronavirus’s threat to democracy itself read more katrina vanden heuvel > elie mystal congratulations, your kids are now your coworkers read more elie mystal > joan walsh as the lights go down in new york city read more joan walsh > jeet heer workers are warriors in the fight against the coronavirus read more jeet heer > dave zirin athlete activists respond to the coronavirus pandemic read more dave zirin > culture from noncompliant bodies to civil disobedience lessons from crip camp, a new documentary that explores the roots of the disability rights movement. susan stryker jay electronica’s wayward rap journey his mesmerizing, flawed, and long-awaited debut album, a written testimony, is one of the strangest rap records in recent memory. stephen kearse thomas piketty: confronting our long history of massive inequality we talked to the french economist about his new book capital and ideology, his thoughts on covid-19, and more. daniel steinmetz-jenkins from the magazine april 6, 2020, issue column a tale of two plagues by katha pollitt feature the fight to keep the mediterranean free of oil drilling by eurydice bersi books & the arts how films were made in cold war hollywood by max nelson see full issue subscribe to the nation march 30, 2020, issue editorial hear from immigrants and refugees in their own words by john washington column mike pence as chief of the coronavirus task force by calvin trillin feature bill gates gives to the rich (including himself) by tim schwab see full issue subscribe to the nation get unlimited digital access for less than $3 a month! subscribe today march 16-23, 2020, issue column think exotic animals are to blame for the coronavirus? think again. by sonia shah feature if we don’t reform the supreme court, nothing else will matter by elie mystal books & the arts why ‘you’ is so terrifying by erin schwartz see full issue subscribe to the nation march 2-9, 2020, issue column the america we want to be by laila lalami feature the woman behind elizabeth warren’s foreign policy by david klion books & the arts the making of france’s presidential system by hugo drochon see full issue subscribe to the nation watch and listen listen: e.j. dionne: the coronavirus crisis will change the 2020 elections listen: the sports world tackles coronavirus brooklyn nets’ wilson chandler joins the show to talk about coronavirus and his career. march 24, 2020 listen: elizabeth warren: unity candidate? joan walsh on warren, bob borosage on bernie, and john sayles on yellow earth. february 20, 2020 listen: we all deserve an income floor: why the bold policy of guaranteed income works listen to episode 4 of more than enough. february 5, 2020 see all multimedia > ad policy take action take action now: keep each other safe fight for fair elections amid the pandemic, support immigrant families, and build mutual aid networks. take action now > columnists katha pollitt a tale of two plagues read more katha pollitt > eric alterman fox news has always lied to old people. this time it may kill them. read more eric alterman > laila lalami the america we want to be read more laila lalami > elie mystal congratulations, your kids are now your coworkers read more elie mystal > x follow the nation get email updates sign up for our free daily newsletter, along with occasional offers for programs that support our journalism. by signing up to receive emails, you agree to receive occasional promotional offers for programs that support the nation's journalism. you may unsubscribe or adjust your preferences at any time. you can read our privacy policy here. sections politics world culture economy society environment take action the nation about privacy policy advertise comments policy contact us help jobs and internships support the nation nation shop nation travels nation cruise nation wine club nation classroom magazine current issue masthead archive subscribe gift subscriptions academic rate subscription services reprints copyright (c) 2020 the nation company llc