skip to content wine blog #7wordwinereview reviews wine racks wine coolers wine aerator what makes the lidl gin so darned popular 10 most popular champagne brands internationally – most are delicious a review of jay z’s ace of spades champagne best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktails at home best whiskey glasses 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best red wine glasses of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews best rhubarb gin: brands that will turn even rhubarb haters best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it? 5 best toffee vodka brands that makes you very kissable | 2020 champagne gin non-alcoholic wine vodka close menu search toggle menu home > champagne / glassware / reviews / wine blog best stemless champagne flutes of 2020 | reviews & buyer’s guide published date 5th march 2020 last modified date 17th march 2020 categories champagne / glassware / reviews / wine blog author vim 69shares sharetweet the beauty about owning a blog is i can actually admit when i’m a little drunk. and as any writer of any style knows, sometimes writing after a few drinks , is actually quite enjoyable. i’ve just come home from a night out. and tonight i had fun because i drank some of the best champagne i’ve had in a while, from stemless champagne flutes. and i think i’m now a little bit converted. as a result, it’s time to do a blog on the best stemless champagne flutes. interestingly enough, tonight was also the night i found out why we celebrate with champagne. now let’s just take a pause here. if you’ve never read any other post on this site, know one thing about me. in the last 6 years, i’ve become obsessed with glassware. not just different styles of wine glasses or champagne flutes, but all other types of glasses, be it beer, gin, whiskey, tea, whatever. i’m really into it. and the reason for that is because i firmly believe that the right glass for the right drink is the difference that makes the difference. when it comes to wine glasses, i’m constantly conflicted with brands like zalto & riedel. i have a love and hate relationship with both of their glassware. but in large part, i always keep both. more often than not i lean towards riedel, because their sommeliers black series glass – for me personally, works for everything; red wine, white wine, champagne even water. having interviewed maximilian riedel a few years ago, he told me about how the o range of riedel was born. like most inventions, they come from a need that is missing in the inventor’s life. at the time of conception, maximilian riedel was living in an apartment in nyc where he didn’t have the space for tall glasses in his cupboards. and just like that, he started his quest for creating the best stemless wine glasses around. and it worked. they sold and continue to sell like hotcakes. so let’s talk about champagne for a moment. if you’ve ever had the time or opportunity to take the chance, i can undeniably state that drinking champagne from a wine glass is really something else. a wider glass allows the champagne to aerate and compared to a champagne flute, a wine glass allows for a more pleasurable drinking experience. for champagne, i would have to say that this is my favourite glass. best stemless champagne flutes but when it comes to stemless wine glasses or even stemless champagne flutes it took some convincing. it just so happened that a month ago i had ordered a few to review, but tonight was in fact the first time i’d ever been out to london and drank from a stemless champagne flute all night. and let me tell you something. it was actually quite the experience. especially when we are talking about trying some dynamic and delicious champagne brands. we’ve enjoyed testing the below glasses (for obvious reasons). riedel stemless champagne flute of course, i’m biased and as you can tell from my intro i absolutely love riedel glassware. it’s a family business that is now in it’s 3rd generation. each of their glasses are handmade. these particular glasses come in a pair. they are much bigger than they look in the photo but they’re also more delicate than they look. let’s just say, don’t even think about doing some sort of game of thrones style cheers. they’ll definitely break. but without a shadow of a doubt, these are my favourite stemless champagne flutes. check latest price the lsa international glasses ever remember the movie 5th element? bruce willis and chris tucker. well these glasses belong in that movie. they’re futuristic. if mars ever gets colonized, you can guarantee that along with all the important things that humans would need up there – these glasses would never get forgotten. they’re a little smaller than they claim to be, but that just means you’re getting more glass per bottle of champagne. as well as being very stylish, they’re also well balanced, easy to hold, and overall provide for a really pleasant drinking experience. check latest price plastic champagne stemless flute ok so before you say anything, yes they’re plastic. plastic you’re thinking. for someone who is obsessed with glassware how on earth would i pick a plastic glass. well for a couple of reasons. firstly from afar they look like real champagne glasses, and drinking from them was a surprising delight. the champagne tasted half decent and without having to worry about them breaking – a game of thrones style cheers was something that wouldn’t dent the glasses in the slightest. whilst these glasses are plastic, they are 100% recyclable. how can you possibly go wrong? check latest price libbey stemless champagne flute glass i really love these glasses. they come in a set of 12 and are just fantastic. these stemless glasses are easy to hold, look wonderful and are easy to clean. and here’s the best bit – they’re dishwasher friendly. it’s rare to find good wine glasses that you can actually toss in the dishwasher, and the fact that these are dishwasher friendly and come in a set of 12, makes clearing up all the more easier. i found these glasses to be slender and balanced. a no brainer to put these on the list. check latest price riedel o glasses you had me at riedel. what can i say about these glasses that the picture doesn’t. there are beautiful to hold, look the part, and allow your champagne to taste divine. it’s somehow just the perfect sized flute. these glasses come in a pair and are surprisingly sturdy. in fact studier than a lot of other riedel glasses. they say these glasses are dishwasher friendly but i wouldn’t risk it at all.talking about riedel glasses, robert parker once said: the effect of these glasses on fine wine is profound. i cannot emphasize enough what a difference they make.’ guess that says it all from the man who knows. check latest price how did we choose our favourite stemless champagne flute? well to begin with i used a neutral glass. in fact, i actually used a pub champagne flute. they’re terrible and let’s be honest, you’ll see them at most large functions. they’re very thick and short and overall terrible champagne glasses. however to use as a control glass, they were perfect. we had ordered over 9 glasses to try from. and the way we chose this list was very simple. we first started by trying our 2 champagnes from firstly the test glass and then each of our stemless champagne flutes. the bottles of champagne that i happened to have on hand were pol roger and a bottle of laurent perrier. of course, it wasn’t just me that tested these glasses. i had 2 wine bloggers with me and a sommelier. and each of them scored the glasses on the following things: taste (of course) balance sturdiness style so whilst we tried glass after glass, enjoying the experience along the way, we made a point of marking each of the champagne flutes in the above categories out of a score of 7 (obviously). very quickly, some of the other glasses that never made our list just didn’t quite cut it. they were either too heavy, or imbalanced or simply too thick so you couldn’t taste the champagne. in conclusion in terms of picking the best 5 glasses, i think we’ve done just that. the question though becomes, would i choose a stemless wine flute over what i normally use? well to be honest i normally use my zalto glass. it’s fairly hard to ply me away from that. and if i’m entirely honest, as i said in my intro, i’ve completely gone off standard flutes and am all about drinking champagne from red wine glasses. however, the one thing i discovered during the research for this post, is that if i had to chose between standard champagne flutes or stemless ones, i would choose stemless ones every time. there’s something very space saving and stylish about them. 69shares sharetweet related posts champagne / wine blog cristal champagne | a buyer’s guide and reviews | 2020 champagne / wine blog champagne bottle sizes explained wine blog everything you want to know about sulphite free wine prev post best wine racks of 2020 | an ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews next post the only 4 gin glasses that make your g&t come alive about 12×75.com 12×75 is a light hearted, comical wine blog which focuses on wine news, reviews, food & interviews with leading figures in the world of wine. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. articles about twelve by seventy five ltd (who have nothing to do with 12×75.com) will the real 12×75 please stand up, please stand up investment firm twelve by seventy five is not 12×75 recent posts best non alcoholic gin 2020 | buyer’s guide & reviews best tonic water of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s guide & reviews most shared posts best whiskey stones 2020 | which ones are worth it?... being a native californian but living in nyc, i think i&# 28 shares best cocktail shakers in 2020 | learn how to make cocktai... cocktail shakers are used for a variety of reasons in a v 35 shares the best wine openers of 2020 | ultimate buyer’s gu... what is it about opening wine that can sometimes be so an 33 shares interviews stephen browett – farr vintners doug rumsam – bordeaux index mark schuringa – ditton wine traders adon kumar – wine searcher judy leissner – grace vineyard peter lunzer – lunzer investments james miles – liv ex mark bedini – fine+rare david elghanayan – vanquish benjamin wallace – the billionaire’s vinegar paula & stacey golding – premier cru fine wine investments henri lurton – chateau brane-cantenac nigel jagger – octavian simon berry – berry bros. & rudd aline baly – chateau coutet adam brett-smith – corney & barrow maximilian riedel – riedel tony laithwaite – laithwaite’s wine pages about us contact us subscribe #7wordwinereview power… sitemap for great london seo services click away. ©2020 back to top search search close