nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop books / the ultimate guide to travel hacking sale! the ultimate guide to travel hacking cad$29.99 cad$9.99 add to cart details: over 130 pages of expert travel hacking advice last updated: march 2019 return policy: no risk, 7-day, 100% money-back guarantee format: pdf (instant download) if you are looking to make your travel dream a reality, i want to share the #1 thing i do — and every other travel expert i know does — to spend less and travel more. we travel hack. travel hacking is the art of collecting frequent-flier points and miles to get free flights, hotels, tours, and more. but more than that, it will allow you to have those once-in-a-lifetime experiences: the over-water bungalows in tahiti, the first-class flight with a shower, the african safari, the visit to the galápagos islands, or that dream trip to the french riveria. travel hacking makes these experiences possible. the secret to traveling for free when i was growing up in boston, travel wasn’t something my family or friends valued. i didn’t take my first trip overseas until i was 23 when i went to costa rica and became hooked on traveling. and like you, i didn’t win the lottery or have an unlimited trust fund. i wasn’t rich. i had to figure out how to travel on a limited budget. i worked, saved, and had to find ways to make my money last. and i did so by figuring out how frequent flier miles and loyalty programs worked so i can get free flights, hotel rooms, train tickets, and cash back. i’ve been travel-hacking for over a decade – and it is the linchpin of all my money-saving advice. it helps me save tens of thousands of dollars on flights, accommodation, and transportation every year. i don’t spend extra money, take special trips to earn more points, or get into debt. i do this with my normal, everyday spending. travel hacking is the solution to the money problem of travel – and i’m going to show you how to do what i do. download the ebook today! the ultimate guide to travel hacking powerful time-tested advice that really works like you, i was skeptical when i first heard about travel hacking. i thought: “this sounds too good to be true.” “this sounds too complicated and time-consuming.” “this sounds like you have to spend a lot of extra money.” it wasn’t until i was sitting on the first free international flight i earned through my regular, everyday spending that i realized this was real. think about the next trip you want to take. picture it in your mind. maybe it’s a solo trip around the world, a family vacation, honeymoon, or quick trip to see your parents. travel hacking will help you get there by reducing the costs of your travels to nearly zero, thus allowing you to travel lots more! i know travel hacking may seem confusing — all those reward programs, redemptions rules, flight alliances, credit card bonuses, and promotions. it can seem overwhelming and time consuming to figure out. too many people look at this and think, “i don’t know where to start — so i won’t start.” that’s why i wrote this book. while there are a lot of travel-hacking websites, there’s no resource that lays it out in such an easy-to-follow, step-by-step format. this book will help you start earning free flights and hotels right away. what you’ll learn my easy-to-follow guide will show you: the history and philosophy behind travel hacking how to use credit scores to your advantage how to spot and get the best-earning reward cards how to master the ins and outs of loyalty programs how to maximize your everyday spending for bonus points the secret art of earning points for free how to always find an award flight or hotel room where to discover the best travel deals the tools and resources travelers use to unlock secret fares and deals bonus: step-by-step cheat sheets so you can keep these tips handy bonus: 6 expert interviews from the world’s biggest travel hackers! brian kellythe points guylearn how to find, use, and maximize credit cards. summer hullmommy pointshow to use travel hacking when you have a family. robert (aka raffles)head for pointsowner of the premier travel hacking website for the uk. jeffery kwokcanadian kilometersjeffery is considered the go-to guy for all things travel-hacking for canadians. scott mackenziehack my tripscott explains how to redeem all those great points you’ve earned! gary leffview from the wingthe godfather of travel hacking. start earning free travel today! by getting this book, you’ll learn the tips and tricks insiders use to travel anywhere they want for nothing. you won’t need to change your spending habits, and this guide will save you hundreds of dollars year after year for the rest of your life! ebook pdf instant download $29.99 $9.99 get ebook details: over 130 pages of expert travel hacking advice last updated: march 2019 return policy: no risk, 7-day, 100% money-back guarantee format: pdf (instant download) what our customers are saying michael: “i bought the guide a few months ago and was able to book a one-way flight from new york to saint petersburg for 30,000 miles and $5.60! matt lays out a great plan on finding the best card for you, how to use it to its full advantage, and quickly build up air miles.” eric: “travel hacking has helped me to travel frequently on a budget that anyone can afford. using his advice on leveraging award offers on credit cards, i’ve been able to avoid having to pay for airfare (other than fees) on trips to great locations in the u.s., europe, and asia. whether you want to become a long-term traveler or you just want to take better vacations, nomadic matt’s advice can help you get the most out of your travel budget.” rusty: “matt’s guide has unlocked a whole new way to travel. his book was an eye-opener — it explained the concept and language of travel hacking in a way that is easy to read and understand. since buying his book six months ago, i have accumulated nearly 300,000 points. now, i’m repeating the steps for my wife so we can have double the miles for our future trips!” lisa: “i always thought credit cards were bad, but after reading this book, i realized that they can actually work for you, not against you! after following matt’s advice, i now have two free airline tickets to the us virgin islands and i am asking myself, why didn’t i start doing this years ago?! i used to be a real skeptic, but i see that it really does work and it doesn’t ruin your credit!!!” ali: “this book has helped me a lot on travel hacking. since i bought this book, i applied for a barclaycard arrival+ credit card and received about 57,000 miles in three months. it is enough to cover a domestic flight, but i am going to keep building up miles until i have enough for a round-trip international flight.” tonia: “i was already dabbling in travel hacking, but this book contained ideas that i hadn’t thought about. matt’s book helped me get two first-class tickets to australia and 10 nights in hotels for free for my 40th birthday. my husband and i honestly thought we would have to wait until we were retired to be able to afford this trip, but because of matt’s advice, we will travel there for free!” esteban: “i always thought all the frequent-flyer miles stuff was all a big scam, but after reading this book, i see that is definitely not a scam at all. i’ve already gotten a few free hotel stays. with matt’s tips, i’ve earned enough miles to fly to south america for a three-month trip with my wife! it made this dream trip more affordable and allowed us to have more money for when we arrive!” matt: “i purchased nomadic matt’s the ultimate guide to travel hacking to help ease the financial struggles of a trip around the world. within four months, i had accumulated 308,682 miles that i can use to lower the costs of flights and accommodation! the guide served as the perfect template to get started, and honestly, if you don’t buy this book, you’re saying no to free money!” carrie: “i bought this book because wanted a more in-depth guide to travel hacking than what you can find online. by following matt’s tips, i earned 100,000 miles within the first couple months. i’ve saved thousands of dollars so far and seen my credit score rise to over 800, and i get to take more trips over the next year than i have in the last ten without altering my normal spending habits.” a.t.: “i’m preparing for an extended round-the-world backpacking trip. with about a year before i depart, i thought the book would be helpful to give some new insight into an alternative way to get tickets. i am currently sitting at 80,000 miles between two different cards, and am working on another 70,000 on two more — and this is just in three months!” jennifer: “matt’s book was an eye-opener for us. we’d been slogging along, getting 1 point for $1 spent on an airline credit card, and we aren’t big spenders, so it seemed like getting enough miles for a trip would take forever. well, three months after getting the book and using the techniques mentioned, we are planning a trip to thailand with a free stopover in tokyo! thank you, matt!” cindy: “matt’s travel-hacking book was a great purchase. it was really informative and covered a lot of different aspects of travel hacking that we were not even aware of or thinking about. matt explains everything very well and makes it really easy for readers to understand. thanks to matt’s book, we are on our way to getting a free flight to south america!” frequently asked questions is this book only for americans? if you’re american, you’ll get the most out of the book, but residents of canada and the uk will also find the information in the book relevant. as much as i wish this book could apply worldwide, in my research i did not find anything relatable to residents of other countries. there just isn’t that much travel hacking that can be done outside the listed countries. i wish there were. i don’t fly a lot. should i buy this book? whether you fly once or ten times per year, this book will help you get free flights and hotel rooms. there are no restrictions. use the advice in this book as much or as little as you want. i’m already an avid travel hacker. is this book for me? simply put: no. if you’ve been travel hacking for a long time and know all the rules, this book won’t be for you, so don’t buy it. will this hurt my credit? no, travel hacking doesn’t hurt your credit score. it actually helps it by helping you increase your available credit. there is a detailed section in the book on how credit works and how travel hacking helps your credit. will i have to take out a lot of credit cards? while credit cards help, you do not need a lot of cards to become a travel hacker. you’ll need at least one, though; otherwise, this won’t work! the book seems expensive, and i’m not sure it’s worth it. this book is full of information and bonuses that make it worth the price. most people are able to earn enough miles for a free flight in under three months. and i guarantee that if you don’t earn enough miles for a free flight within six months, i will refund your purchase — no questions asked. at least one free flight, guaranteed, in six months, and the tactics to continue traveling all over the world — for free. easily worth the price a hundred times over. how will i get this book? you’ll be emailed a download link; you’ll be able to open the file on your computer, kindle, nook, ipad, or phone. download the ebook today! my advice has been featured in: get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site