events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: dreamforce marketing 101 coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise the typing game makes entrepreneurs faster and more accurate at the mobile keyboard published: jun 19, 2018 last updated: jan 22, 2020 by antony maina in product reviews 6 132 shares | 83 51 2 email this article 132 shares 83 51 2 email this article usefulness functionality price the typing game is a small sized mobile typing game that can help you to improve your typing speed and accuracy. while many people think little of the value of typing faster and accurately, it is one of the most fundamental skills required in lots of fields, business included. be it in writing an email to a customer or writing a blog about your new products, typing is one of the most important skills. as a business owner, accurate and fast typing will save you a tremendous amount of time that you could have spent proofreading your emails or product descriptions for typos. about the typing game the typing game, created by steev james, and available for free on google play store, is a mobile application that claims to help with improvement of typing speed and accuracy. the game, which is low in size (only about 1mb in size), is completely free and doesn’t feature any ads. the game does not run in the background and does not require any permission to install or run making it fully safe. how it works download the game from google play store and click ‘open’ to get started. you will be ushered to the home page where you can choose to start a game, read more about the app, view your high score or exit the game. it is simple and straightforward. the game itself is quite easy to play. you don’t need any instructions to guide you. you are given a minute to start typing in the provided words into a text box. the game comes to an end after the 60 seconds and your score is highlighted. you can as well see your highest score on the home page. conclusion the typing game is a simple and easy to use application that can significantly improve your typing speed and accuracy when sending out emails or even text messages to your customers or even business partners using your mobile phone. the only downside with the game is that at one point it said that my keyboard is not supported by the game, yet it worked well when i closed and opened the game again. this might be a bug that needs fixing. besides that, this is a solid typing game that both adults and children above 3 years can enjoy playing and improve their typing speeds and accuracy while at it. image: the typing game 6 comments ▼ 2018-06-19 editor's picks postblazer manages multiple social media accounts: here's how duckduckgo gives business owners unique research tool can lumen5’s ai really create marketing videos automatically? read on antony maina antony maina is a staff writer for small business trends. his beat includes social media, general business reporting and exploring how people relate to technology. with a background in freelance writing, he is a contributor to other tech websites and can be found at word4bloggers. 6 reactions aira bongco june 20, 2018 at 2:57 am interesting that speed is also important. i guess more and more are working on mobile so the skill comes in handy. reply vishwajeet kumar june 24, 2018 at 6:12 am mobiles have now become a part of our day to day life. i have tried many mobile games but haven’t tried this. thanks for sharing, will try them. reply martin lindeskog january 9, 2019 at 6:28 am antony: could you find this game on apple app store? reply martin lindeskog january 9, 2019 at 6:30 am i would enjoy playing a mobile game with a keyboard like an old (ibm) typewriter! 😉 reply martin lindeskog november 21, 2019 at 8:18 am antony: is this game still around? 😉 what is your high score? 🙂 reply aira bongco march 4, 2020 at 2:38 am i guess it is essential for communications in businesses are mostly done through mobile communications. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad popular ooma office provides enterprise features at small business prices the typing game makes entrepreneurs faster and more accurate at the mobile keyboard shortpixel image optimizer can speed up your business site vizzlo: create charts and graphs for your biz in seconds view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit