menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: accessories, style & grooming, ties guest contributor • january 9, 2020 last updated: january 14, 2020 here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year editor’s note: this is a guest post from mark richardson. the experiment just over a year ago, i started an engineering job at a local company where typical daily dress is a collared shirt and slacks. while scouting for something to wear on a random day in the first few weeks, i noticed a large number of ties in my closet. my wife and i had recently moved and made an ardent effort in packing and unpacking these clothing articles, so i decided to make these efforts worthwhile by knotting one on my neck for the day and determining to wear one the rest of the week. around the office that week, i received the typical, sarcasm-laced questions of “when’s the interview?” and “why are you dressed like that?” numerous times. the next week, i was running late on monday and decided to skip the tie in favor of regaining a few much-needed minutes. a peculiar situation occurred later in the day when the president of the company, whom i rarely interacted with, poked his head into my humble cube and asked where my tie was. i was floored and unable to answer, but his question made me ponder my wardrobe decisions. i had worn a tie for a single week and, as a result, the head of the company was keenly aware of my presence and appearance. consequently, i decided to run an amateur social experiment to see if one tiny strip of colored fabric could truly make a difference in my professional life. my experiment was simply to wear a tie to work every day for a year while occasionally donning a sport coat or blazer for good measure. as a non-senior engineer, i knew i was unable to change my years of experience immediately; however, i did have the ability to quickly change my appearance for the better. the results: the benefits of wearing a tie every day before diving into this list, i would like to add that this was my personal experience with wearing a tie every day; i, of course, can’t guarantee this will happen to every reader. in addition, tie-wearing must accompany good work. a well-dressed sloth will never exceed the value of a shabbily-dressed industrious worker. that said, here are the benefits i recognized over the course of the year: increased recognition among coworkers a tie is a relatively small piece of clothing. and yet, the presence of one around your neck immediately separates you from the sea of unbuttoned collars. even if your name is relatively unknown around the office or in departments you rarely frequent, others will notice and identify you by your clothing choice. of course, recognition can be a double-edged sword. some coworkers, especially aspiring managers, could see your upscaled dress as a threat — as a sign of your ambitions. be aware of this, but take courage in knowing that as long as you don’t act in a pompous manner, these feelings will soon pass. in fact, instead of provoking antagonism, you may inspire your coworkers to dust off their own sport coats and ties to wear into work. greater personal confidence the first day i came out of our bedroom sporting a tie, my wife did a double-take and said, “wow you look nice!” naturally, that made me feel marvelous and i held my head high the rest of the day. at work i received some comments as well, some sarcastic and some genuine, but the former gradually went away as i continued to wear the tie, and overall, i found that wearing a tie every day made me feel a greater sense of self-respect. i soon realized that it wasn’t only the affirmations of others which constituted a change in my self-esteem. the self-discipline of willingly going the extra mile in my wardrobe choices and knowing i stood out among my peers and coworkers was enough to make me stand taller and walk straighter. in my experiment i felt a draw of prestige harkening back to the power suits of the 50s and 60s. while i offer no scientific proof, i can assure the reader that a man who feels he looks exceptional will exude confidence and dignity. on the flipside, a major drainer of confidence is having to acknowledge yourself as the most underdressed person in the room. with a tie, you’ll rarely be put in that situation and you can proudly and comfortably attend any client or internal meeting — even when it’s last minute. while this article is directed at ties, i would like to put in a plug for the sport coat too. a well-fitting, waist-slimming, shoulder-broadening coat will enhance your appearance and make you stand out among other men around you (even ones who have a better physique but aren’t dressed as well). heightened responsibility not only can a tie, especially paired with a suit or sport coat, help you feel more confident yourself, it will also lead to others placing more confidence in you. this confidence can materialize in different forms, but it will commonly emerge in being given new responsibilities that lie outside your typical role or position. perform these new obligations well, and the greater confidence lent you, born from wearing a simple tie, can quickly and easily set you far ahead of your peers. exposure to new opportunities throughout my experiment i noticed i was picked among my peers to attend important client meetings and take on new projects. when i finally asked a supervisor why i was being chosen, he simply answered, “we know you will always be dressed appropriately to be in front of a client.” monetary gains yearly performance reviews and raises came about midway through my experiment. a meeting with the office leader disclosed that i was getting the maximum raise percentage, which was only awarded to three people that year. this outmatched all my peers and some direct managers who outrank me. the office leader cited my “professionalism” as one of the main reasons for bestowing this sizable raise. during the experiment, my company was going through some growing pains from their recent buyout. in my department, this meant an exodus of coworkers leaving for other firms coupled with large layoffs. as my experiment came to a close, i looked around and realized everyone with my title had either left the company or been laid off. i took this observation to the president of the company, wondering why i was left standing, and received the response of, “you’re the last person we would think of laying off.” as before, my “professionalism” was stated as a major reason for keeping me with the company. how to wear a tie effectively if you’re intrigued by my experiment, and considering wearing a tie more regularly yourself, here are some tips on how to do so with style, dash, and modesty. wear the right tie, the right way wearing the right tie in the right way is almost as important as wearing a tie in the first place. neglecting to acknowledge the style considerations surrounding this accessory can result in an appearance that is immature, awkward, or slovenly. so read up on the following resources on how to wear a tie well: how to tie a tie tie tips: a visual guide how to match a tie with a dress shirt and suit how to put a dimple in your tie wear with comfortable confidence my father once told me, “it’s very easy to tell if a man is at home in a suit.” this observation can be confirmed at weddings, funerals, proms, and easter sunday church service. shifting uncomfortably, walking awkwardly, tugging on various choke points, and/or evincing a general air of discontent evidences that someone does not feel at home in a suit. you don’t want that same air of disconfidence when wearing a tie. inspect your shirts to ensure that none of the collars are too tight when buttoned up; if they feel like a vice grip on your neck, collar extenders are particularly helpful and will be covered up by your tie. adjusting your garments may help, but feeling and looking natural in a tie will mainly come with experience. the more you wear a tie, the more comfortable you’ll feel in one, and the more comfortable you feel, the more confidence you’ll exude. humility if you want to kill any of the benefits detailed above, be sure to act pompous about your new wardrobe change. the goal of wearing a tie is not to feel superior to others, but rather to boost your personal professionalism and confidence. no one admires a boastful jerk. instead, you should carry yourself with both self-assurance, and humility. when you receive questions about your tie, especially during the first few weeks, use the essence of the responses below: “i have quite a few ties at home and i wanted to get some use out of them.” “my wife likes it when i look sharp!” “it’s just something i thought i’d experiment with.” don’t use answers such as these: “i actually care about the way i look, unlike some people who work here.” “people give respect to those who wear ties.” “i read an article on aom and it says i’ll be promoted faster than you and make more money if i do this.” be counter-cultural upon entering the workforce a few years ago, the first comments i heard about dress code in an office were, “anything above a dress shirt and slacks is not really part of office culture anymore,” and “if you go in an (insert industry here) office you won’t find anyone that wears a tie or coat anymore so you shouldn’t either.” the truth is there’s a bottom threshold in office dress but there is not really an upper threshold (outside of formal wear). t-shirts and shorts are frowned upon in the workplace but rarely is a tie and sport coat. do not be afraid to challenge the culture of your workplace by wearing a tie. you will create a new culture and people will either rise to meet it or you will stand out proudly. i hope that reading this article will inspire you to wear a tie and maybe a jacket to work. ties are a seemingly small piece of fabric in a man’s wardrobe but they can carry immense importance in a modern setting. a strip of silk hanging from the neck will naturally set the wearer apart from those around him. handled astutely, this separation can lead to some surprising benefits. _________________________________ mark richardson is a graduate of texas a&m university, a civil engineer by trade, and a history lover in heart. his passion for presenting his personal best through proper attire was nurtured in the southern tradition in which he was raised. mark and his wife, victoria, reside in katy, texas. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// beard grooming 101: the lowdown on products and routine 10 things your father should have taught you about style how to find the natural part in your hair if/how to wear a suit without a tie view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy