home migrator home updraftvault home updraftcentral home updraftclone home wp optimize features full feature list screenshots backup plugin comparison testimonials blog about us support support home faqs how to backup a wordpress site pre-sales question customer support form forums data protection and privacy centre my account login / home my purchases my updraftvault my updraftcentral my clones (updraftclone) get support change password buy premium buy premium full shop select page updraftplus, the world’s most trusted wordpress backup, restore and clone plugin hacking, server crashes, dodgy updates or simple user error can ruin your wordpress site. that’s why you need updraftplus. keep your wordpress site safe and install now! get free version get premium trusted by over 2 million wordpress sites. users include: featured by: why choose updraftplus?  easy-to-use engage with an easy-to-use interface that allows you to backup and restore with a single click on a schedule that suits you.  trusted not all backup plugins are created equal. updraftplus is tested in more scenarios, installed on more servers and rated higher than any rival.  comprehensive updraftplus is a complete, general-purpose backup and restore plugin with more features and advanced tools than any rival. what does updraftplus do? both free and premium backup performs complete manual or scheduled backups of all your wordpress files, databases, plugins and themes set schedules backup schedules every 4, 8 or 12 hours, daily, weekly, fortnightly or monthly restore restores backups directly from your wordpress control panel what are the additional benefits of premium? cloning and migration migrator clones your wordpress site and moves it to a new domain or host directly and simply (more…) or use updraftclone to clone a temporary site to our servers in a matter of seconds (more…) incremental backups allows you to only backup changes to your files (such as a new image) that have been made to your site since the last backup fast, personal support provides expert help and support from the developers whenever you need it pre-update backups automatically backs up your website before any updates to plugins, themes and cores backup non-wordpress files and databases backup the wp core and non-wp files and databases network / multisite backup wordpress multisites or networks securely backup time and scheduling set exact times to create, retain or delete backups more database options encrypt your sensitive databases (e.g. customer information or passwords); backup external databases and more… reporting sophisticated reporting and emailing capabilities importer some backup plugins can’t restore a backup, so premium allows you to restore backups from other plugins lock settings lock access to updraftplus via a password so you choose which site users can access backups run from wp-cli run optimization commands directly on command-line with detailed output on screen no ads tidy things up for clients and remove all adverts download free version get premium this page is having a slideshow that uses javascript. your browser either doesn't support javascript or you have it turned off. to see this page as it is meant to appear please use a javascript enabled browser. marie perrieryacht zoo i wouldn't know of any better backup software for your wordpress install. used for over 20 websites and never failed me, with great features such as daily database backups and weekly files backup. possibility to move everything to remote storage as dropbox etc. just the best and easiest plugin available and a lifesaver if really needed !!! earid a. super awesome plugin!i use it every time when i need to back up my wordpress sites. jan dembowskicredit suisse this plugin easily lets a single wordpress site schedule a backup to remote storage such as google drive. when you need it to, it permits the same remote storage to seamlessly restore.updraftplus is frequently updated and improved. i have never had any issue and i recommend this plugin for all wordpress backups. khanjal been using this for over a week and enjoy having peace of mind with the automatic backups. gustavo cieslarcucuza in three minutes i was uploading backups to dropbox. just what i needed. thanks! julie bethe grocery blog whether it's the free or premium version, this is a really great plugin! my backups have never been easier. thank you! pablo postigoworona it took me less than 2 minutes to have the plugin connected with my amazon s3 account. everything works better than expected!thanks for such a great tool! prevnext more testimonials backup to remote storage locations: both free and premium to avoid server-wide risks, always backup to remote cloud storage. updraftplus offers the widest range of remote storage options of any wordpress backup plugin: dropbox enhance dropbox with premium google drive enhance google drive with premium amazon s3 enhance amazon s3 with premium rackspace enhance rackspace with premium …and more! like ftp, dreamobjects, openstack swift and email… what additional storage options does premium have? one drive sftp azure webdav ……and more! like scp, google cloud storage, backblaze… download free version get premium find out more with our videos updraftvault as well as having the widest range of cloud storage options, updraftplus has its own embedded storage option, providing a zero-hassle way to download, store and manage all your backups from one place. see full features updraftmigrator our migrator feature allows you to clone and migrate your website directly to a different url or host – and it’s easy! you can do it all from the dashboard in a matter of minutes. or use updraftclone to clone test site to our servers in a matter of seconds. see full features backup multiple websites? then updraftcentral is for you! using state-of-the-art technology, we’ve built a powerful platform that allows you to remotely control all of your websites at once. accessible via one central login, updraftcentral makes it easy to back up, restore and migrate multiple websites and manage all of their themes, plugins and cores. see full features questions? if you have questions, please take a look at our pre-sales faqs or our general faqs pages. alternatively, ask your own question here. how does updraftplus compare with other backup plugins? we’ve put together a list of why updraftplus is the right backup plugin for you: https://updraftplus.com/wordpress-backup-plugin-comparison. how long will i be able to access updates? already-installed software can be used forever, whether you have access to updates or not. with each purchase, you’ll have 12-months of access to personal support and installations of new updraftplus releases (as with about 90% of the premium wordpress plugin market). after 12 months, you can renew this access with generous discounts. if you prefer not to renew, your installed software is unaffected – it will remain installed and you can carry on using it. how do i backup a wordpress site? for a step-by-step guide on how to backup your wordpress site using updraftplus, please follow this link for further detailed information. are there coupons available for discounted upgrades? yes! go here for the list of available upgrade coupons (or here for renewal coupons). what are the available discounts for renewing access to updates/support after a year? users enjoy generous renewal discounts after the initial year- see here for more details. or, if you’re looking for upgrade discounts, see here. can i use updraftplus to migrate my website to a different address? this is a common need for site developers, or anyone wanting to maintain two copies of a site (e.g. when moving web host). the answer is “yes”; this is a feature of updraftplus premium. just click on the “clone/migrate” button in updraftplus, and it’s easy. (you will also be shown a link to fuller online instruction, including screenshots). can updraftplus be used to migrate a woocommerce site? yes! woocommerce is a well-behaved wordpress plugin that stores its database information in the wordpress database, and any uploaded files in the wordpress media library. as such, it does not present any special issues or challenges when migrating. by the way – updraftplus.com itself uses woocommerce; we’ve even developed a few woocommerce plugins of our own, which you can see here. find out more about migrating woocommerce with updraftplus. more… protect your site with the world’s most trusted backup plugin all premium licenses come with: all add-ons 1 year of support 1 year of free updates 1gb of vault storage updraftpremium personal 2 licenses $70.00 buy now all premium features + 1 updraftclone token + 1gb updraftvault quota updraftpremium business 10 licenses $95.00 buy now all premium features + 2 updraftclone tokens + 1gb updraftvault quota updraftpremium agency 35 licenses $145.00 buy now all premium features + 5 updraftclone tokens + 1gb updraftvault quota updraftpremium enterprise unlimited licenses $195.00 buy now all premium features + 10 updraftclone tokens + 1gb updraftvault quota updraftpremium gold unlimited licenses+ $399.00 / year buy now all premium features + 10 updraftclone tokens + 50gb updraftvault quota + unlimted updraftcentral cloud included personal business agency enterprise gold numbers of licenses 1 - 2 3 - 10 11 - 35 unlimited unlimited all add-ons support updates updraftvault 1gb free buy now $70 buy now $95 buy now $145 buy now $295 buy now $399 other plugins crafted by the updraft team keep your database fast and efficient. learn more manage multiple wordpress sites from one central dashboard. learn more create powerful, seo-optimized slideshows in minutes. learn more keep your wordpress site up to date and bug free. learn more sign up to our newsletter enter your email below to receive latest news and updates from us. leave this field empty if you're human: recently on the blog wordpress community: helping to provide services online for people in isolation how to backup a wordpress site: step by step guide wp-optimize to release new minify feature read more » facebook twitter rss youtube updraftplus is a trademark of updraft wp software ltd. uk registered company number: 8570611, vat number: 202 1260 80 product development and marketing in co-operation with xibo ltd, cardiff, uk. 7ads6x98y