wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » the ultimate wordpress security guide – step by step (2020) the ultimate wordpress security guide – step by step (2020) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 23k shares share tweet share pin wordpress security is a topic of huge importance for every website owner. google blacklists around 10,000+ websites every day for malware and around 50,000 for phishing every week. if you are serious about your website, then you need to pay attention to the wordpress security best practices. in this guide, we will share all the top wordpress security tips to help you protect your website against hackers and malware. while wordpress core software is very secure, and it’s audited regularly by hundreds of developers, there is a lot that can be done to keep your site secure. at wpbeginner, we believe that security is not just about risk elimination. it’s also about risk reduction. as a website owner, there’s a lot that you can do to improve your wordpress security (even if you’re not tech savvy). we have a number of actionable steps that you can take to protect your website against security vulnerabilities. to make it easy, we have created a table of content to help you easily navigate through our ultimate wordpress security guide. table of contents basics of wordpress security why wordpress security is important? keeping wordpress updated passwords and user permissions the role of web hosting wordpress security in easy steps (no coding) install a wordpress backup solution best wordpress security plugin enable web application firewall (waf) move wordpress site to ssl/https wordpress security for diy users change the default “admin” username disable file editing disable php file execution limit login attempts add two factor authentication change wordpress database prefix password protect wp-admin and login disable directory indexing and browsing disable xml-rpc in wordpress automatically log out idle users add security questions to wordpress login scanning wordpress for malware and vulnerabilies fixing a hacked wordpress site ready? let’s get started. why website security is important? a hacked wordpress site can cause serious damage to your business revenue and reputation. hackers can steal user information, passwords, install malicious software, and can even distribute malware to your users. worst, you may find yourself paying ransomware to hackers just to regain access to your website. in march 2016, google reported that more than 50 million website users have been warned about a website they’re visiting may contain malware or steal information. furthermore, google blacklists around 20,000 websites for malware and around 50,000 for phishing each week. if your website is a business, then you need to pay extra attention to your wordpress security. similar to how it’s the business owners responsibility to protect their physical store building, as an online business owner it is your responsibility to protect your business website. [back to top ↑] keeping wordpress updated wordpress is an open source software which is regularly maintained and updated. by default, wordpress automatically installs minor updates. for major releases, you need to manually initiate the update. wordpress also comes with thousands of plugins and themes that you can install on your website. these plugins and themes are maintained by third-party developers which regularly release updates as well. these wordpress updates are crucial for the security and stability of your wordpress site. you need to make sure that your wordpress core, plugins, and theme are up to date. [back to top ↑] strong passwords and user permissions the most common wordpress hacking attempts use stolen passwords. you can make that difficult by using stronger passwords that are unique for your website. not just for wordpress admin area, but also for ftp accounts, database, wordpress hosting account, and your custom email addresses which use your site’s domain name. many beginners don’t like using strong passwords because they’re hard to remember. the good thing is that you don’t need to remember passwords anymore. you can use a password manager. see our guide on how to manage wordpress passwords. another way to reduce the risk is to not give anyone access to your wordpress admin account unless you absolutely have to. if you have a large team or guest authors, then make sure that you understand user roles and capabilities in wordpress before you add new user accounts and authors to your wordpress site. [back to top ↑] the role of wordpress hosting your wordpress hosting service plays the most important role in the security of your wordpress site. a good shared hosting provider like bluehost or siteground take the extra measures to protect their servers against common threats. here is how a good web hosting company works in the background to protect your websites and data. they continuously monitor their network for suspicious activity. all good hosting companies have tools in place to prevent large scale ddos attacks they keep their server software and hardware up to date to prevent hackers from exploiting a known security vulnerability in an old version. they have ready to deploy disaster recovery and accidents plans which allows them to protect your data in case of major accident. on a shared hosting plan, you share the server resources with many other customers. this opens the risk of cross-site contamination where a hacker can use a neighboring site to attack your website. using a managed wordpress hosting service provides a more secure platform for your website. managed wordpress hosting companies offer automatic backups, automatic wordpress updates, and more advanced security configurations to protect your website we recommend wpengine as our preferred managed wordpress hosting provider. they’re also the most popular one in the industry. (see our special wpengine coupon). [back to top ↑] wordpress security in easy steps (no coding) we know that improving wordpress security can be a terrifying thought for beginners. especially if you’re not techy. guess what – you’re not alone. we have helped thousands of wordpress users in hardening their wordpress security. we will show you how you can improve your wordpress security with just a few clicks (no coding required). if you can point-and-click, you can do this! install a wordpress backup solution backups are your first defense against any wordpress attack. remember, nothing is 100% secure. if government websites can be hacked, then so can yours. backups allow you to quickly restore your wordpress site in case something bad was to happen. there are many free and paid wordpress backup plugins that you can use. the most important thing you need to know when it comes to backups is that you must regularly save full-site backups to a remote location (not your hosting account). we recommend storing it on a cloud service like amazon, dropbox, or private clouds like stash. based on how frequently you update your website, the ideal setting might be either once a day or real-time backups. thankfully this can be easily done by using plugins like vaultpress or updraftplus. they are both reliable and most importantly easy to use (no coding needed). [back to top ↑] best wordpress security plugin after backups, the next thing we need to do is setup an auditing and monitoring system that keeps track of everything that happens on your website. this includes file integrity monitoring, failed login attempts, malware scanning, etc. thankfully, this can be all taken care by the best free wordpress security plugin, sucuri scanner. you need to install and activate the free sucuri security plugin. for more details, please see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, you need to go to the sucuri menu in your wordpress admin. the first thing you will be asked to do is generate a free api key. this enables audit logging, integrity checking, email alerts, and other important features. the next thing, you need to do is click on the ‘hardening’ tab from the settings menu. go through every option and click on the “apply hardening” button. these options help you lock down the key areas that hackers often use in their attacks. the only hardening option that’s a paid upgrade is the web application firewall which we will explain in the next step, so skip it for now. we have also covered a lot of these “hardening” options later in this article for those who want to do it without using a plugin or the ones that require additional steps such as “database prefix change” or “changing the admin username”. after the hardening part, the default plugin settings are good enough for most websites and don’t need any changes. the only thing we recommend customizing is ‘email alerts’. the default alert settings can clutter your inbox with emails. we recommend receiving alerts for key actions like changes in plugins, new user registration, etc. you can configure the alerts by going to sucuri settings » alerts. this wordpress security plugin is very powerful, so browse through all the tabs and settings to see all that it does such as malware scanning, audit logs, failed login attempt tracking, etc. enable web application firewall (waf) the easiest way to protect your site and be confident about your wordpress security is by using a web application firewall (waf). a website firewall blocks all malicious traffic before it even reaches your website. dns level website firewall – these firewall route your website traffic through their cloud proxy servers. this allows them to only send genuine traffic to your web server. application level firewall – these firewall plugins examine the traffic once it reaches your server but before loading most wordpress scripts. this method is not as efficient as the dns level firewall in reducing the server load. to learn more, see our list of the best wordpress firewall plugins. we use and recommend sucuri as the best web-application firewall for wordpress. you can read about how sucuri helped us block 450,000 wordpress attacks in a month. the best part about sucuri’s firewall is that it also comes with a malware cleanup and blacklist removal guarantee. basically if you were to be hacked under their watch, they guarantee that they will fix your website (no matter how many pages you have). this is a pretty strong warranty because repairing hacked websites is expensive. security experts normally charge $250 per hour. whereas you can get the entire sucuri security stack for $199 per year. improve your wordpress security with the sucuri firewall » sucuri is not the only dns level firewall provider out there. the other popular competitor is cloudflare. see our comparison of sucuri vs cloudflare (pros and cons). [back to top ↑] move your wordpress site to ssl/https ssl (secure sockets layer) is a protocol which encrypts data transfer between your website and users browser. this encryption makes it harder for someone to sniff around and steal information. once you enable ssl, your website will use https instead of http, you will also see a padlock sign next to your website address in the browser. ssl certificates were typically issued by certificate authorities, and their prices start from $80 to hundreds of dollars each year. due to added cost, most website owners opted to keep using the insecure protocol. to fix this, a non-profit organization called let’s encrypt decided to offer free ssl certificates to website owners. their project is supported by google chrome, facebook, mozilla, and many more companies. now, it is easier than ever to start using ssl for all your wordpress websites. many hosting companies are now offering a free ssl certificate for your wordpress website. if your hosting company does not offer one, then you can purchase one from domain.com. they have the best and most reliable ssl deal in the market. it comes with a $10,000 security warranty and a trustlogo security seal. wordpress security for diy users if you do everything that we have mentioned thus far, then you’re in a pretty good shape. but as always, there’s more that you can do to harden your wordpress security. some of these steps may require coding knowledge. change the default “admin” username in the old days, the default wordpress admin username was “admin”. since usernames make up half of login credentials, this made it easier for hackers to do brute-force attacks. thankfully, wordpress has since changed this and now requires you to select a custom username at the time of installing wordpress. however, some 1-click wordpress installers, still set the default admin username to “admin”. if you notice that to be the case, then it’s probably a good idea to switch your web hosting. since wordpress doesn’t allow you to change usernames by default, there are three methods you can use to change the username. create a new admin username and delete the old one. use the username changer plugin update username from phpmyadmin we have covered all three of these in our detailed guide on how to properly change your wordpress username (step by step). note: we’re talking about the username called “admin”, not the administrator role. [back to top ↑] disable file editing wordpress comes with a built-in code editor which allows you to edit your theme and plugin files right from your wordpress admin area. in the wrong hands, this feature can be a security risk which is why we recommend turning it off. you can easily do this by adding the following code in your wp-config.php file. 
// disallow file edit
define( 'disallow_file_edit', true );
 alternatively, you can do this with 1-click using the hardening feature in the free sucuri plugin that we mentioned above. [back to top ↑] disable php file execution in certain wordpress directories another way to harden your wordpress security is by disabling php file execution in directories where it’s not needed such as /wp-content/uploads/. you can do this by opening a text editor like notepad and paste this code: 
<files *.php>
deny from all
</files>
 next, you need to save this file as .htaccess and upload it to /wp-content/uploads/ folders on your website using an ftp client. for more detailed explanation, see our guide on how to disable php execution in certain wordpress directories alternatively, you can do this with 1-click using the hardening feature in the free sucuri plugin that we mentioned above. [back to top ↑] limit login attempts by default, wordpress allows users to try to login as many time as they want. this leaves your wordpress site vulnerable to brute force attacks. hackers try to crack passwords by trying to login with different combinations. this can be easily fixed by limiting the failed login attempts a user can make. if you’re using the web application firewall mentioned earlier, then this is automatically taken care of. however, if you don’t have the firewall setup, then proceed with the steps below. first, you need to install and activate the login lockdown plugin. for more details, see our step by step guide on how to install a wordpress plugin. upon activation, visit settings » login lockdown page to setup the plugin. for detailed instructions, take a look at our guide on how and why you should limit login attempts in wordpress. [back to top ↑] add two factor authentication two-factor authentication technique requires users to log in by using a two-step authentication method. the first one is the username and password, and the second step requires you to authenticate using a separate device or app. most top online websites like google, facebook, twitter, allow you to enable it for your accounts. you can also add the same functionality to your wordpress site. first, you need to install and activate the two factor authentication plugin. upon activation, you need to click on the ‘two factor auth’ link in wordpress admin sidebar. next, you need to install and open an authenticator app on your phone. there are several of them available like google authenticator, authy, and lastpass authenticator. we recommend using lastpass authenticator or authy because they both allow you to back up your accounts to the cloud. this is very useful in case your phone is lost, reset, or you buy a new phone. all your account logins will be easily restored. we will be using the lastpass authenticator for the tutorial. however, instructions are similar for all auth apps. open your authenticator app, and then click on the add button. you will be asked if you’d like to scan a site manually or scan the bar code. select the scan bar code option and then point your phone’s camera on the qrcode shown on the plugin’s settings page. that’s all, your authentication app will now save it. next time you log in to your website, you will be asked for the two-factor auth code after you enter your password. simply open the authenticator app on your phone and enter the code you see on it. [back to top ↑] change wordpress database prefix by default, wordpress uses wp_ as the prefix for all tables in your wordpress database. if your wordpress site is using the default database prefix, then it makes it easier for hackers to guess what your table name is. this is why we recommend changing it. you can change your database prefix by following our step by step tutorial on how to change wordpress database prefix to improve security. note: this can break your site if it’s not done properly. only proceed, if you feel comfortable with your coding skills. [back to top ↑] password protect wordpress admin and login page normally, hackers can request your wp-admin folder and login page without any restriction. this allows them to try their hacking tricks or run ddos attacks. you can add additional password protection on a server-side level, which will effectively block those requests. follow our step-by-step instructions on how to password protect your wordpress admin (wp-admin) directory. [back to top ↑] disable directory indexing and browsing directory browsing can be used by hackers to find out if you have any files with known vulnerabilities, so they can take advantage of these files to gain access. directory browsing can also be used by other people to look into your files, copy images, find out your directory structure, and other information. this is why it is highly recommended that you turn off directory indexing and browsing. you need to connect to your website using ftp or cpanel’s file manager. next, locate the .htaccess file in your website’s root directory. if you cannot see it there, then refer to our guide on why you can’t see .htaccess file in wordpress. after that, you need to add the following line at the end of the .htaccess file: options -indexes don’t forget to save and upload .htaccess file back to your site. for more on this topic, see our article on how to disable directory browsing in wordpress. [back to top ↑] disable xml-rpc in wordpress xml-rpc was enabled by default in wordpress 3.5 because it helps connecting your wordpress site with web and mobile apps. because of its powerful nature, xml-rpc can significantly amplify the brute-force attacks. for example, traditionally if a hacker wanted to try 500 different passwords on your website, they would have to make 500 separate login attempts which will be caught and blocked by the login lockdown plugin. but with xml-rpc, a hacker can use the system.multicall function to try thousands of password with say 20 or 50 requests. this is why if you’re not using xml-rpc, then we recommend that you disable it. there are 3 ways to disable xml-rpc in wordpress, and we have covered all of them in our step by step tutorial on how to disable xml-rpc in wordpress. tip: the .htaccess method is the best one because it’s the least resource intensive. if you’re using the web-application firewall mentioned earlier, then this can be taken care of by the firewall. [back to top ↑] automatically log out idle users in wordpress logged in users can sometimes wander away from screen, and this poses a security risk. someone can hijack their session, change passwords, or make changes to their account. this is why many banking and financial sites automatically log out an inactive user. you can implement similar functionality on your wordpress site as well. you will need to install and activate the inactive logout plugin. upon activation, visit settings » inactive logout page to configure plugin settings. simply set the time duration and add a logout message. don’t forget to click on the save changes button to store your settings. [back to top ↑] add security questions to wordpress login screen adding a security question to your wordpress login screen makes it even harder for someone to get unauthorized access. you can add security questions by installing the wp security questions plugin. upon activation, you need to visit settings » security questions page to configure the plugin settings. for more detailed instructions, see our tutorial on how to add security questions to wordpress login screen. [back to top ↑] scanning wordpress for malware and vulnerabilies if you have a wordpress security plugin installed, then those plugins will routinely check for malware and signs of security breaches. however, if you see a sudden drop in website traffic or search rankings, then you may want to manually run a scan. you can use your wordpress security plugin, or use one of these malware and security scanners. running these online scans is quite straight forward, you just enter your website urls and their crawlers go through your website to look for known malware and malicious code. now keep in mind that most wordpress security scanners can just scan your website. they cannot remove the malware or clean a hacked wordpress site. this brings us to the next section, cleaning up malware and hacked wordpress sites. [back to top ↑] fixing a hacked wordpress site many wordpress users don’t realize the importance of backups and website security until their website is hacked. cleaning up a wordpress site can be very difficult and time consuming. our first advice would be to let a professional take care of it. hackers install backdoors on affected sites, and if these backdoors are not fixed properly, then your website will likely get hacked again. allowing a professional security company like sucuri to fix your website will ensure that your site is safe to use again. it will also protect you against any future attacks. for the adventurous and diy users, we have compiled a step by step guide on fixing a hacked wordpress site. [back to top ↑] that’s all, we hope this article helped you learn the top wordpress security best practices as well as discover the best wordpress security plugins for your website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 72 commentsleave a reply aqib khan says: feb 10, 2020 at 4:55 am i will always follow you.i will always love you and always share such a fresh and cool content to make us smile.thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: feb 10, 2020 at 11:10 am thank you, glad you’ve enjoyed our content reply mahmoud says: jan 16, 2020 at 3:47 pm i love this site. you’re offering precious information. i’m a beginner and this is helpful. but can i only have a strong password and disable indexing to do the matter? what about all these plugins i think they will affect the site speed or this not installed on the site? reply wpbeginner support says: jan 17, 2020 at 9:10 am for your concern with plugins slowing down your site, you shouldn’t need to worry, we explain our reasoning behind this here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/how-many-wordpress-plugins-should-you-install-on-your-site/ reply krishna says: jan 15, 2020 at 8:04 am hi wp beginner team, thanks for such a brief explanation of wordpress security. this article was very useful and let know the value of wp security for the users and website owner. thanks again… reply wpbeginner support says: jan 15, 2020 at 10:41 am you’re welcome, glad our article was helpful reply kushal says: dec 13, 2019 at 1:00 pm i used all plugin that you mentioned sucuri, itheams, wp serber and jetpack. how many plugin can i use on my website. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 16, 2019 at 10:32 am we would recommend sticking with only one plugin for a specific feature but for in general how many plugins to use you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/opinion/how-many-wordpress-plugins-should-you-install-on-your-site/ reply leighann says: nov 19, 2019 at 10:34 pm this was so helpful. thanks for the information and saving me so much time! reply wpbeginner support says: nov 20, 2019 at 9:56 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply dietrich says: oct 11, 2019 at 11:48 am hi is it okay to use sucuri and wordfence at the same time? i installed wordfence since sucuri’s free version doesn’t have a firewall feature. reply wpbeginner support says: oct 11, 2019 at 4:00 pm we would not recommend using both, multiple security tools can conflict with each other and cause issues with your site. reply yiannis christodoulou says: sep 27, 2019 at 5:01 am very helpful article. thank you for sharing. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 27, 2019 at 10:00 am you’re welcome, glad our article could help reply steve schultz says: sep 12, 2019 at 5:06 pm your free sucuri security plugin link is broken … 404 error. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 13, 2019 at 9:25 am thanks for letting us know, the link should be fixed reply monty parihar says: aug 31, 2019 at 5:09 am now my website is secured, after read your post immidiatly we install security plugin. thank u wp beginner. reply wpbeginner support says: sep 4, 2019 at 9:09 am you’re welcome reply melvin adame says: aug 30, 2019 at 2:32 pm amazing read! security should always be the #1 priority for any website owner, for their sake and their visitors. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 3:04 pm thank you, glad you like our content reply adil says: aug 30, 2019 at 11:48 am thanks for all this info! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 3:21 pm you’re welcome reply mark bunner says: aug 29, 2019 at 10:33 am some good tips here. i have already used a lot of them; but it gives a few other areas to think about. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 9:01 am thank you, glad you like our recommendations reply chukwuemeka ebuka says: aug 29, 2019 at 5:31 am am very grateful for this article, all thanks to wpbeginner.com. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 29, 2019 at 10:21 am you’re welcome, glad our article could be helpful reply heidi says: aug 27, 2019 at 1:34 am great article, thanks! i think i’ve done most of these things now (except ones requiring coding). i did however have a problem setting a password for the admin folder. while i worked out how to do this in cpanel (under ‘directory privacy’), when i went back to my dashboard i found i was locked out. then i spent over an hour on chat support with bluehost only to discover what i suspected – that when you log in to wp from bluehost it takes you straight to the admin area, so there is no opportunity to login to the admin folder, which means you just get locked out. guess this is a problem with bluehost and the only solution they gave me was install a plugin reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:58 am if you’re using their link from the hosting dashboard to log into your site that may be true but if you add /wp-admin to your domain then it should take you to the login page which will bring up the additional login requirement reply heidi says: sep 2, 2019 at 12:28 am ok great thanks, i’ll try that. reply julian song says: aug 27, 2019 at 1:01 am awesome article on security. setup wordpress is easy, but to managed it need lots of study & research. your blog helps the community more than you can imagine. i even share your blog on the recent wordpress meet-up as one of the best guidelines. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 27, 2019 at 9:53 am thank you for your kind words and sharing our articles reply malith says: aug 19, 2019 at 8:42 am thank you very much! reply wpbeginner support says: aug 19, 2019 at 10:11 am you’re welcome, glad our guide could be helpful reply shiva prasad says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:29 am thanks for being a good mentor and for guiding me on the right path. i will always be thankful to you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:40 am glad our guides could help you reply majid says: jul 24, 2019 at 10:36 pm hi, i am new to wordpress, i am using bluehost to host my website, when i cliked on the wordpress button, it automatically took me to cpanel, without asking any password, which passwords are we talking about? p.s at the right top corner i could see howdy, my name…does that mean is that my username? i do’t remember installing wordpress on bluehost, neither did i enter any username or password separately for wordpress. please help. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 26, 2019 at 9:26 am that is bluehost’s tool to make setting up your wordpress site easier, our article is talking about the password for your wordpress site. you can change your password for your site under users>your profile. the name next to howdy should be your username. reply terence vickers says: jul 19, 2019 at 8:57 pm you may have a typo in the xml-rpc section which is a bit confusing. presently reads: “this is why if you’re not using xml-rpc, then we recommend that you disable it.” if i’m not using i there would likely be no way to disable it. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 22, 2019 at 11:47 am apologies for any confusion, with that statement we mean if you’re not using it for a specific plugin or other need then we would recommend disabling it rather than meaning if it is disabled to disable it. we’ll look into clarifying that reply syed gallani says: jul 17, 2019 at 5:40 pm i understand keeping wordpress updated is essential for security, but is it really necessary ,from security point of view, to update all the plugins. how outdated plugins can make your website more prone to being hacked? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 18, 2019 at 10:10 am it would depend on the plugin for how it could make your site vulnerable but some plugins may have code that could be out of date for a newly discovered issue with a piece of code. reply david anozie says: jul 9, 2019 at 5:35 am a big thank you! your the boss. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 9, 2019 at 12:50 pm thank you for being one of our readers reply nick says: jul 2, 2019 at 7:00 pm would blocking search engine spiders (via robots.txt) from indexing directories help with security? reply wpbeginner support says: jul 3, 2019 at 11:25 am no, it would only mean those search crawlers would not look at your site. reply 寒星 says: jun 9, 2019 at 10:48 pm it’s turely helpful to maintaining wp. i love it and thank you so much. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 10, 2019 at 1:18 pm you’re welcome, glad our article was helpful reply peg says: may 23, 2019 at 3:31 pm i’m learning the hard way! : ) i’m so glad to have found you. i have a hacked 5-year old site hosted on godaddy (can’t get into the admin at all) … they want $300 to fix it, so i’m rebuilding on bluehost and implementing your security suggestions. looking forward to learning much more! thank you so much for this resource. reply wpbeginner support says: may 24, 2019 at 9:55 am you’re welcome, glad our guide can help reply jeff moyer says: may 19, 2019 at 7:01 pm great comprehensive list thank you! limiting the amount of login attempts i find is a big one since it will discourage a lot of hackers right from the get go. it might be frustrating if you lost or forget your passwords but still well worth it. reply wpbeginner support says: may 20, 2019 at 1:47 pm you’re welcome, glad you liked our article reply tanmay kapse says: apr 20, 2019 at 4:16 pm an awesomely detailed post!! each and every thing is described perfectly. keep up the good work reply wpbeginner support says: apr 22, 2019 at 11:58 am thank you, glad you liked our content reply sunny chawla says: apr 10, 2019 at 3:40 am much obliged to you for supportive page improve my site reply wpbeginner support says: apr 10, 2019 at 11:00 am glad our guide could be helpful reply santhosh naikar says: mar 28, 2019 at 4:20 pm what are things i need to worry when it is hosted on a internal network[has access to only systems with in our office network]? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 29, 2019 at 10:32 am your main concern for an intranet would be to ensure each user has the correct privileges for their role, after that it would be protecting yourself from brute force attacks and similar. reply steven suslick says: mar 19, 2019 at 7:11 pm i find this and many of the posts very helpful. i have a hack related question. google analytics is reporting strange pages that do not actually existing in my posts. the all seem to have a /?s= for example /?s=dox. i can not seem to locate source any suggestions? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 20, 2019 at 10:40 am those pages are from users using the search on your site, for the second someone searched for the word dox reply emmanuel ikechukwu says: mar 15, 2019 at 8:40 am this is the best wordpress online tutor i have come across so far. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 18, 2019 at 4:24 pm glad our articles are helpful reply bobbie camp says: mar 11, 2019 at 9:33 pm found this article to be very helpful. i am very new and not “techy” and need all the assistance i can get. appreciate your easy to read instructions. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 12, 2019 at 10:41 am glad our articles could help reply jemes says: mar 9, 2019 at 4:48 am it is very helpful. thanks reply wpbeginner support says: mar 11, 2019 at 11:27 am you’re welcome reply nicholas amol gomes says: mar 7, 2019 at 10:35 am thank you for helpful page improve my site reply wpbeginner support says: mar 7, 2019 at 10:51 am you’re welcome reply brad vincent says: mar 7, 2019 at 9:32 am hey guys, i must agree with your mentions of sucuri – they have sorted out a couple of hacked sites of mine over the years. worth every penny! i am really loving these extended posts with all the info i need. i have been following your website speed post and that has made a big difference to my sites. after i have finished with that i will be following this one for sure. awesome work and much appreciated. reply wpbeginner support says: mar 7, 2019 at 11:23 am thank you, glad you find our articles helpful reply brian says: mar 7, 2019 at 9:21 am what are your thoughts on wordfence and sucuri on the same wp installation? they seem to have some similar functionality so was wondering how much more i get with both versus just one security tool. is wordfence a reasonable alternative? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 7, 2019 at 11:22 am we would recommend only one at a time to prevent conflicts between the plugins. reply mark says: mar 12, 2019 at 11:56 am i use wordfence and sucuri for different functions. while they may at first appear to be competitors, they are actually complementary. i’ve had no issues running both … so far … but of course there are incompatibilities among plugins in general. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.