start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising happiness mental strength advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life hugo huyer author at tracking happiness, lifelong happiness tracker and passionate about all things mental health and well-being. read full profile share pin it tweet share email if i ask you “what is happiness?”, then what would your answer be? it’s probably difficult to come up with a simple answer. yet, here you are, looking for a key to happiness and how to lead a fulfilling life. the truth is that a universal key to happiness is a myth. that doesn’t mean that you should stop looking for yours right now, it only means that you need to be careful when reading articles about “a key to happiness”. the universal key to happiness is non-existent because happiness is one of the most difficult things in life to define. table of contents how do you define happiness? finding your key to true happiness define what happiness means to you find your purpose in life combine your purpose in life with your definition on happiness final thoughts more tips about pursuing a happy life how do you define happiness? now, let’s go back to that difficult question: “what is happiness?” have you thought about it already? let me give you an example of how hard it is to define happiness. right now, i’m drinking a cup of coffee while writing the outline of this article about how to define happiness. am i happy right now? yes, i’m feeling pretty happy: i’ve got nothing to worry about. all my basic needs are met. my family, friends, and girlfriend are all happy as well. the weather is nice. i’m going outside in a couple of minutes to go for a walk. these things are all making me feel pretty happy right now. by that logic, let’s define my happiness as follows: “happiness is when i’m in a worry-free state, the weather is nice, everybody i know is alright and i can enjoy a hot cup of coffee.” voila. there it is. my definition of happiness. the keys to my happiness are obvious now, and i know enough in order to lead the happiest life i can. i just need to focus on the things i listed above. advertising wait a second… if it were this simple, then why have i ever been unhappy? you might have guessed it already, but i made a very simple error. i assumed that what makes me happy today will make me happy for the rest of my life. and that’s just wrong. happiness is something that not only changes from person to person, but it’s also constantly evolving from day to day. your definition of happiness changes over time. this is why happiness is such a difficult concept, and why there’s not a single “key to happiness”. whoever tells you otherwise is likely not aware that people change, and that people don’t always share the same values, goals, and purposes. finding your key to true happiness so, where to look for true happiness if a single key to happiness doesn’t exist? read on to find out… define what happiness means to you for a minute, i want you to do consider your own happiness. i want you to think back of last week, and consider what things you did that had a positive effect on your happiness. what things had a significant influence on your mood? what comes to your mind? was it spending time with your friends? was it a great movie you watched? did you attend an exciting sports event? or did you enjoy sipping hot coffee on a sunny wednesday morning? it could obviously be just about anything! it’s important to realize that all these things were part of your “key to happiness”. your happiness was defined by these things, and you just measured a small part of that. advertising does that mean you now know all the answers? do you now know how to live the rest of your life? no. but you do know what things made you happy last week, and that’s very useful information when determining your own definition of happiness to build on. if you consciously keep track of what factors determine your happiness, then you are more likely to find out just how much your definition of happiness can vary from time to time. this knowledge can help you find your key to happiness. you see, even though happiness is claimed to be the factor of life that’s the most difficult to measure, you can still measure how you define your own happiness each day. it’s simple. for me personally, when i think back of last weekend, i remember that i really enjoyed spending time with my girlfriend, walking through the woods on a sunny day and just relaxing (a.k.a. doing nothing!) these are happiness factors that were a vital part of my happiness definition this weekend. i had just survived a long and busy week at work, so i was really trying to find some easy enjoyment. the things that i did this weekend were perfect for the occasion, as it was a very happy day for me. if you were to ask me what the key to my happiness was that weekend, i’d give you the following answer: to spend quality time with my girlfriend, being able to enjoy the good weather while being carefree and relaxed. while this is unlikely to be the key to your happiness for the rest of your life, it is a pretty good start. you can do exactly the same. all you need to do is to define your own happiness from day to day. find your purpose in life the next step to determining your key to happiness is to determine the things that give you purpose. you will live a fulfilling life when you’re happily tracking towards a purpose. something that you’re passionate about. let’s use the previous example of my key to happiness. will i be happy for the rest of my life when i focus exclusively on a relaxed and carefree feeling? probably not, because it will not lead to a very fulfilling life. not for me, at least. advertising there are some things that drive my actions in a much bigger sense than only my daily, short-term happiness. for some people, that purpose could be: to take care of a loving family to build a successful company to climb the highest mountains to be rich and famous you have to find out what your purpose in life is in order to truly determine your key to happiness. only then will you be able to define a sustainable plan that will make you both happy and fulfilled. it’s important to know that you can find your purpose only when trying out new things. this is a crucial part of finding your key to happiness. you can’t read an article online (like this one) and suddenly learn about what your key to happiness is! the same thing goes for finding your purpose. you can’t expect to find your purpose without trying new things. people stumble upon their purpose in life in lots of different ways.[1] if you find figuring out your purpose challenging, take a look at this article: how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life combine your purpose in life with your definition on happiness now, this might sound like a mouthful: a purpose in life x keys to your happiness = fulfilling life? it’s actually really simple. let’s take the following example: i’ve found that my purpose in life is to become the ceo of a great and powerful charity (i know, i know…) i feel a purpose and sense of accomplishment when working towards these goals. however, should i therefore sacrifice everything in my life in order to reach that purpose? should i work 100 hours a week, disregard any relationships and use sleep medication just to fall asleep under the stress? nope. if i do that, i might reach my purpose, but i won’t still be happy. advertising however, if i spend the rest of my life similar to how i spent my last weekend (enjoying the sun and walking through the forest) i will also miss long-term happiness. that’s because i won’t feel like my life has a purpose. your key to happiness and the purpose of your life need to compliment each other. they need to be in balance. you’ve probably heard the saying: “happiness is a journey, not a destination”. think of the destination as your purpose, and think of the journey as the things you do that make you happy (the keys to your happiness). you can’t spend your life running (or sprinting) towards your destination, because you’ll forget to enjoy the journey. at the same time, you can’t head out on your journey without having a destination in mind. that’s why i believe your happiness is a product of both the journey and the destination. or in other words, you need to combine your purpose in life with the keys to your happiness in order to lead a fulfilling life. this will allow you to create a road map – a specific and concise plan – that will help you determine how to best lead your life. if you’ve done that, you’re ready to steer your life in the best direction possible! final thoughts the most important thing to remember when trying to define your keys to a happy and fulfilling life is simple: there is no universal key that leads to your happiness. that’s because your happiness is unique in each and every single way. what you can do is: realize that you can define the factors that make you happy. know that your happiness – and the factors that influence it – change over time, and so will your “key to happiness”. find out what your purpose in life is. you can only do this by trying out many things. you can’t learn this from simple reading an article! combine your purpose and the things that make you happy in order to get the best idea of how to steer your life in the best direction possible! more tips about pursuing a happy life 10 scientifically proven ways to stay happy all the time how to be happy: why pursuing happiness will make you unhappy how to be happy again: 13 simple ways to shake off sadness now featured photo credit: sam manns via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ tracking happiness: what is your purpose in life (actual examples and answers) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to be happy again: 13 simple ways to shake off sadness now how to be happy: why pursuing happiness will make you unhappy how to find the purpose of life and start living a fulfilling life advertising advertising more by this author hugo huyer author at tracking happiness, lifelong happiness tracker and passionate about all things mental health and well-being. the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life 13 ways to seize the moment and enjoy life more how to think positive and eliminate negative thoughts stuck in a rut? 6 steps to break free and live a happy life again 8 tips for coping with anxiety during the midlife crisis advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? more by this author hugo huyer author at tracking happiness, lifelong happiness tracker and passionate about all things mental health and well-being. the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life 13 ways to seize the moment and enjoy life more how to think positive and eliminate negative thoughts stuck in a rut? 6 steps to break free and live a happy life again 8 tips for coping with anxiety during the midlife crisis trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void how to reduce mental stress quickly (and naturally) you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in mental strength 1 the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald 2 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 3 how to find happiness in your everyday life 4 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness 5 what is resilience and why is it important? read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.