the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: take a virtual hike in redwood national park posted on march 23, 2020march 23, 2020 by kraig becker i know that a lot of us aren’t getting outside as much as we’d like right now. the coronavirus has has homebound more than we would like in an effort to stay healthy and safe. just as reminder, going outdoors is still safe, provided you don’t gather in large groups or get to close to… read more video: man’s best friend is truly the trail dog posted on march 23, 2020march 23, 2020 by kraig becker here’s a video that is sure to resonate with most of us, particularly dog owners who can truly appreciate the friendship, companionship, and love that our four-legged friends provide. the clip comes our way from salomon tv, which a few years back launched a competition for fans to share their trail dogs. one of the… read more denali closes for the spring climbing season too posted on march 23, 2020march 23, 2020 by kraig becker at this point it should come as no surprise that major mountaineering, exploration, and adventure destinations are closing down for the foreseeable future. the coronavirus has cancelled athletic events, travel plans, and entire climbing seasons across the globe as countries scramble to try to contain its spread. now, we have received word that another iconic… read more nepal ends all trekking activities due to coronavirus posted on march 23, 2020march 23, 2020 by kraig becker a few weeks back, nepal made the unprecedented move of shutting down all of the 8000-meter peaks within its borders, cancelling all of the climbing permits for everest and other mountains for the spring. the country also announced that it would not longer be issuing on-arrival visas for the foreseeable future, making it more challenging for… read more video: the big one — snowboarding down denali posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by kraig becker what happens when a group of professional snowboarders travels to alaska to climb and ride down denali, the highest peak in north america? you’ll have to watch this video, which comes our way courtesy of roam media, to find out. i will tell you that the group, which includes danny davis, nick russell, forrest shearer,… read more video: the rift — iceland’s epic gravel bike ride posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by kraig becker gravel races are all the rage in cycling right now, but you might be hard pressed to find one with a more beautiful course than the rfit in iceland. it is a 200 km (125 mile) ride through the stunning landscapes that the country is best known for. it also happens to be a bit… read more adventure quickies: free national parks, adventuring in a pandemic, and more posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by kraig becker each friday i post a round-up of some interesting and unique stories from the past week that i simply didn’t have the time or space to share elsewhere. here’s a few things you may have missed over that time span. america’s national parks are fee-free due to coronavirus: as the coronavirus continues to wreak havoc on… read more keen is giving away 100,000 pairs of shoes to those in need posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by kraig becker we could all use a bit of good news right now, don’t you think? our friends over at keen agree, which is why they’re giving away 100,000 pairs of shoes to those who can currently use them the most. but, they’re not just randomly donating thousands of pairs of boots to several charities, but are… read more china reopens north side of everest to national climbers posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 by kraig becker in yet another sign that things are getting back to normal post-coronavirus in china, the chinese tibetan mountaineering association has announced the reopening of the north side of everest. the move comes just a few weeks after officials announced that closing of the peak for the 2020 spring climbing season, but there are a few… read more video: summits of my life — langtang posted on march 19, 2020march 19, 2020 by kraig becker today we have yet another entry into kilian jornet’s summits of my life series. this video takes us back to 2015, when a deadly earthquake struck nepal just two days before kilian and some friends were set to travel there and make an attempt on everest. even though that massive natural disaster devastated the country,… read more previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 … 1,378 next search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog