news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals apps the fbi is pushing a home-workout app that tracks your location and wifi network why would you ever willingly download an app from the fbi? by josiah motley march 25, 2020 image: fbi there are plenty of things to worry about as we all deal with the coronavirus pandemic, and now, there’s apparently something new to worry about – the fbi tracking you through a home-workout app that it is currently promoting. with more of us staying indoors and away from the gym, the fbi has been promoting its exercise app on social media. called fittest, it offers some basic functionality on exercises and form, but it’s what it is doing behind the scenes that has people talking. according to business insider and others on social media, the app collects data from users, including location and wifi information. the fbi notes that this data is only stored on the users’ phone and not transmitted to the fbi, but it’s some of the other details regarding the app that make the whole situation even more unsettling. #mondaymotivation are you looking for tips for indoor workouts? download the #fbi’s physical fitness test app to learn proper form for exercises you can do at home like pushups and situps. https://t.co/8rwfqvbic0 pic.twitter.com/uzoekmipdk — fbi (@fbi) march 23, 2020 basically, different parts of the app will send you to the fbi’s website, which features an entirely different privacy policy. that privacy policy states that “individuals using this computer system are subject to having all of their activities monitored and recorded.” business insider points out that it isn’t exactly clear which sections of the app fall under the app’s privacy policy and which fall under the more broad fbi.gov policies. so, obviously, you can see the issue here. back in 2018, security professionals talking with cnbc also noted that the language the app used in regards to privacy was convoluted, making it difficult to know exactly what information was being tracked. yeah, maybe i’ll just stick to youtube videos for the time being… what do you think? surprised by this information regarding the fbi’s workout app? let us know down below in the comments or carry the discussion over to our twitter or facebook. editors’ recommendations: the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues the u.s. government wants to track your phone to curb the spread of coronavirus the fbi reportedly downloaded cia hacking tools over starbucks wifi related topicsappscoronavirusfbinews josiah motley managing editor with a focus on all things tech and gaming. life adventurer. i only tweet about kevin and curtis @josiah_motley comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise one, two, three...ohhmmmm the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 looking for some new apps to put on your smartphone? we've got you covered. the best new ios and android games to download in march 2020 why use your phone for work when you can use it for games? smartnews now has dedicated election coverage and local news in over 6,000 locations finding quality local news can be difficult, but hopefully, this can help. coming soon to an iphone near you: ads in your push notifications oh, great. robinhood is back up and will offer premium users a measly $15 to compensate for downtime $15 is laughable. whatsapp now has dark mode for android and ios – here’s how to turn it on after an extended beta, it's now rolling out to everyone. robinhood is having issues for a second day in a row and people are freaking out oo-de-lally, oo-de-lally, golly, what a day. with more people stuck at home, youtube is lowering automatic video quality playback the best meditation apps to cut through the noise home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie