videocamp home films about playlists my profile first access search> english português br (portuguese br) español (spanish) my profile first access screenings screenings schedule the videocamp around the world producers funds 2018 edition2017 edition discussion guide understand how videocamp works more videocamp about help frequently asked questions copyright holder manual get in touch more submit film facebook twitter instagram follow us organize a screening still do not understand how a videocamp display works? click here! download support material maria farinha filmes presents: the beginning of life general audience 2016 97min severalesenfrpt-brbgartetkm pt-bresenitfrdaficasvarjakodepttrruidnlbgnozh-cnzh-twhrsraztet pt-br it is possible to download the archive of this film for videocamp sessions. organize your screening by clicking here. watch the trailer rate compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter one of the greatest neuroscience breakthroughs is having discovered that babies are far more than a genetic load. the development of all human beings lies on the combination of genetics, the quality of the relationships and the environment they are set on. the beginning of life invites everyone to reflect: are we taking good care of this unique moment, which defines both the present and future of humankind? the film is available for free public screenings worldwide. directed by estela renner produced by maria farinha filmes coproduction -- sponsorship fundação maria cecília souto vidigal, fundação bernard van leer, instituto alana, unicef official support -- view complete sheet category documentary theme (title) childhood inspirational 4.6 rating 8.21 k screenings 212 k audience 1.24 m total aud. online (youtube, vimeo, etc) public screenings cinemas on demand (itunes, now, etc) other media (dvd, blu-ray, media kit, etc) download support material produced by: sponsorship: promotional support: outreach support: next videocamp public screenings 20/04 09/10 28/08 20/04 17:30 colômbia, são paulo | cemei francisca luzia de avelar rua ramos da natividade 855 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter see details 09/10 14:00 mogi das cruzes, são paulo | lucéia marques do amaral rua domingos de souza 185 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter see details 28/08 10:00 mossoró, rio grande do norte | cinema partage shopping partage shopping mossoró compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter see details the film's producer are the responsable for this schedule. see complete schedule learn more about the theme (title) discussion material this post-screening material is a way of offering more resources to promote inspiring and consistent discussions, and help in discovering the importance of early childhood development (ecd). this booklet was developed in modular fashion, so you can use the parts you wish, in the way you find most appropriate and the order that makes most sense to you. discussion material un - millennium development goals http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ save the children http://www.savethechildren.org/site/c... who - world health organization http://www.who.int/en/ center of excellence for early childhood development http://www.excellence-earlychildhood.ca/ center on the developing child - harvard university http://developingchild.harvard.edu/ child trends http://www.childtrends.org readynation http://www.readynation.org/ ashoka https://www.ashoka.org/ ubs optimus foundation https://www.ubs.com/global/en/wealth_... world bank http://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/ear... unicef http://www.unicef.org/ bernard van leer foundation http://www.bernardvanleer.org/ alana institute http://alana.org.br/en/ fmcsv - maria cecília souto vidigal foundation http://www.fmcsv.org.br/en-us/pages/d... read more extras photos see all photos musics o começo da vida - trilha musical by maria farinha filmes maria farinha filmes see all music o começo da vida - trilha musical by maria farinha filmes maria farinha filmes see all music additional information you can also watch it at: itunes google play (leg) google play (dub) net now buy dvd awards: -- official site: official site press kit: -- todas as informações disponíveis nessa página foram fornecidas e são de responsabilidade do detentor de direitos da obra. comments films you could like 2016 · 42 min documentary the early years are the ones that structure the life of a person. “the beginning of life - the series” follows the successful moveme... movie page organize a screening 5 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter marcar como favorito ep. 3 - the beginning of life - the s... 2016 · 43 min documentary the early years are the ones that structure the life of a person. “the beginning of life - the series” follows the successful moveme... movie page organize a screening 4.5 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter marcar como favorito ep. 4 - the beginning of life - the s... 2016 · 43 min documentary the early years are the ones that structure the life of a person. “the beginning of life - the series” follows the successful moveme... movie page organize a screening 0 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter marcar como favorito ep. 5 - the beginning of life - the s... 2016 · 43 min documentary the early years are the ones that structure the life of a person. “the beginning of life - the series” follows the successful moveme... movie page organize a screening 5 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter marcar como favorito ep. 6 - the beginning of life - the s... 2016 · 44 min documentary the early years are the ones that structure the life of a person. “the beginning of life - the series” follows the successful moveme... movie page organize a screening 4.5 compartilhar compartilhar no facebook compartilhar no twitter marcar como favorito ep. 2 - the beginning of life - the ... complete sheet the beginning of life (2016) age rating: general audience it is possible to download the archive of this film for videocamp sessions. organize your screening by clicking here. directed by estela renner produced by maria farinha filmes coproduction -- sponsorship fundação maria cecília souto vidigal, fundação bernard van leer, instituto alana, unicef official support -- category documentary theme (title) childhood inspirational odss ods 3 - good health and well-being, ods 5 - gender equality, ods 8 - decent work and economic growth, ods 10 - reduced inequalities audio and subtitles audio several, spanish, english, french, portuguese br, bulgarian, arabic, tetum, central khmer standard portuguese br, spanish, english, italian, french, danish, finnish, catalan, swedish, arabic, japanese, korean, german, portuguese, turkish, russian, indonesian, dutch, bulgarian, norwegian, chinese (traditional), chinese (simplified), croatian, serbian, bulgarian, azerbaijani, english, tetum close caption -- audio description portuguese br sign language -- synopsis one of the greatest neuroscience breakthroughs is having discovered that babies are far more than a genetic load. the development of all human beings lies on the combination of genetics, the quality of the relationships and the environment they are set on. the beginning of life invites everyone to reflect: are we taking good care of this unique moment, which defines both the present and future of humankind? the film is available for free public screenings worldwide. cast jack shonkoff james heckman raffi cavoukian charles a. nelson iii alison gopnik andrew meltzoff gisele bündchen vera iaconelli vilma alerta de gatilho essa obra trata dos seguintes temas: recomendamos que pessoas, sejam elas mobilizadoras ou participantes da sessão, que se sintam sensíveis a esses temas, não assistam à obra. quero continuar com o agendamento da sessão não quero continuar com o agendamento da sessão aviso de conteúdo impróprio para menores de general audience este filme pode conter cenas de: e, por isso, não é recomendado para menores de general audience. antes de prosseguir com seu agendamento, certifique-se de que a audiência da sua sessão está dentro desta classificação indicativa. sim, estou ciente escolher outro filme videocamp about videocamp films playlists help frequently asked questions copyright holder manual get in touch info@videocamp.com more submit film the videocamp around the world practical guide for moderating discussions receive our newsletter send e-mail registered successfully! error registering email facebook twitter instagram follow us ® videocamp 2017 - all rights reserved terms of use privacy terms for work license privacy english português br (portuguese br) español (spanish)