millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays home » blog » bear market » the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays by timothy sykes last updated on march 18, 2020 coronavirus stock sympathy plays could be your next smart move in this bear market… the stock market is going insane lately. no big surprise that like all the other big news in the headlines, it’s connected to the coronavirus. we’ve had market halts, a market crash, an oil price war … and we’re now officially in a bear market. sell-offs and despair abound … the volatility is wild. so i urge everyone to stay safe. but don’t think for a second there aren’t any plays. and if you don’t feel safe trading right now, that’s ok. use this time to learn. my students and my students have been killing it in the market lately. my top student tim grittani just crossed this epic trading milestone and reports making hundreds of thousands of dollars in the past few weeks.** you can see all grittani’s trades here. right now there are a ton of trading opportunities … but you may have to adjust your mindset and strategies. this is why i say it’s key to learn to adapt to the market. it can change fast. right now, coronavirus stocks are hot. but it’s smart to think ahead. looking for coronavirus stock sympathy plays is one way to do that. i’ll talk about how to continue to take advantage of the hottest sector in years… but before we get to sympathy plays, let me give you a little background. [**note: success as a trader requires dedication and effort. most traders — roughly 90% — lose money. these results are not typical. do your due diligence and never risk more than you can afford to lose.] table of contents 1 coronavirus: a massive global catalyst 1.1 it’s getting serious 2 the market crash is not the end of the world 3 my students are killing it 4 coronavirus sympathy plays: the new market edge 4.1 what are sympathy plays? 4.2 history repeats itself 5 coronavirus plays: the hottest stocks right now 5.1 aytu bioscience inc. (nasdaq: aytu) 5.2 cocrystal pharma, inc. (nasdaq: cocp) 5.3 spherix incorporated (nasdaq: spex) 6 the next wave: potential coronavirus stock sympathy plays 6.1 guardion health sciences inc. (nasdaq: ghsi) 6.2 novan inc. (nasdaq: novn) 7 key tips for finding coronavirus stock sympathy plays 7.1 follow the news 7.2 look at related companies 7.3 use a stock screener 8 trading challenge 9 the final word on coronavirus stock sympathy plays coronavirus: a massive global catalyst © 2020 millionaire media, llc the new coronavirus that causes covid-19 is massively affecting the global economy. first, china was on lockdown … from there, it’s been a domino effect. the coronavirus is viewed as the key catalyst behind the market’s recent volatility and shift into bear market territory. traders and investors are losing their heads over it. it’s getting serious the coronavirus is serious business. over 180,000 people have been infected globally. there have been over seven thousand deaths. there are a lot of travel restrictions in place. and you know what? that makes sense. as i share in the video below, even if you’re not scared of getting sick, it’s so important to be careful and cautious. if tom hanks and rita wilson can get this, you can too. and you can be asymptomatic. so you can have the virus and not even know it. it’s gone into full-blown who-defined pandemic territory. italy has closed pretty much everything — shops, restaurants, museums. only vital businesses like pharmacies and grocery stores are open. we’re seeing more states here in the u.s. follow suit. disney world is closing. in the world of sports, we’ve seen seasons suspended and tournaments canceled. ncaa just canceled march madness too 🙁 — timothy sykes (@timothysykes) march 12, 2020 the economic impacts of this will be huge. but remember that… the market crash is not the end of the world here’s the good news: this market crash is not the end of the world. remember … we were in a bull market for over 10 years. the market kept going higher and higher. too many traders got cocky and thought it would keep going on forever. that’s not how markets work. if it wasn’t the coronavirus, something else would have knocked it down eventually. so yeah, some traders and investors are losing big right now. i hate to see anyone lose … but i also know that there are always opportunities in the market. history repeats itself. i stayed profitable during the last market crash by adapting and following the market’s lead. so far, that approach is working for me and my students. a lot of haters say i’m a dinosaur … but this is why it’s crucial to study the past. important post on knowing stock market history https://t.co/lb1pwotkit be sure to study the past! — timothy sykes (@timothysykes) march 13, 2020 if you haven’t read “the complete penny stock course” … get a copy and read it now. this book covers the essentials of my strategy. my students are killing it my students are seriously killing it in the market lately. a lot of them are reporting record profits.** nope, it’s not because we have access to some secret that everyone else doesn’t. we’re just trading smart. we’re reacting to the opportunities in the market. right now, most of those opportunities have to do with coronavirus plays. let’s just take a look at some of the recent comments from my trading challenge chat room on march 12.** 7:30 am shotime: profit: $4178 | $apt $ino $spex cocp 7:52 am stefan_g: fine, bought as early bird $opk at 1.59, sold 1.76, up 1550 on the day. 8:16 am nfamous_walrus: sold $ino at 10.4 for 600 profit. 9:31 am papajohn: sold the last of my pctl position. $1,854 profit on it, 72% gain. [**students’ results aren’t typical. these students put in the time and dedication and have exceptional skills and knowledge. most traders lose money. always remember trading is risky … never risk more than you can afford.] coronavirus sympathy plays: the new market edge © 2020 millionaire media, llc even if the market is crashing there are tons of hot stocks. right now, companies that make vaccines, masks, or potential tests for coronavirus are seeing a lot of action. i’ll say it again: you gotta be careful out there. the volatility is insane. stocks can move super fast. remember to cut your losses quickly. it’s rule number one for a reason. and if you really want to expand the opportunities, one smart move can be to put potential coronavirus stock sympathy plays on your watchlist. what are sympathy plays? sympathy plays are when stocks related to a certain theme or sector see action simply due to association. it’s possible there’s nothing particularly exciting about these companies. but just being associated with a catalyst, hot sector, or other hot stock can draw in more traders. as more traders get in on these plays … the action can snowball from there. let’s look at a recent example that’s not related to the coronavirus: electric cars. a few years ago, nobody cared about electric cars. then tesla (nasdaq: tsla) came along. its stock started getting hot, and people also started to believe in electric cars in a new way. in this case, tesla is the sector leader — the one that paved the way for others. suddenly, all sorts of electric car companies started making news … and the stock prices started going up. (check out this post to see how tesla traded like a penny stock recently.) history repeats itself history repeats itself in the stock market. the sympathy play phenomenon has played out time and time again. even though the coronavirus is a whole new ballgame in some ways, sympathy plays are still playing out as usual. so how can you start to find opportunities? start by looking at the state of the market right now. new to penny stocks? access my free penny stock guide here. coronavirus plays: the hottest stocks right now in this recent post, i talked about some of the hottest coronavirus plays i’m watching right now. let’s review a few of them … this is how you start to get ideas for sympathy plays. aytu bioscience inc. (nasdaq: aytu) this stock spiked big a few days ago after announcing a distribution deal for a coronavirus test. it went up as much as 700%. aytu 3-month, daily chart — courtesy of stockstotrade.com it actually got halted a few times because of the extreme volatility, and it eventually turned into a short squeeze. i personally don’t like playing short squeezes. but a ton of my students reported profits. cocrystal pharma, inc. (nasdaq: cocp) this stock spiked in late february after announcing a license deal with kansas state university for a potential treatment for coronavirus. take a look at the chart: cocp 3-month, daily chart — courtesy of stockstotrade.com cocp spiked again in march when the company made another announcement that the program was progressing. spherix incorporated (nasdaq: spex) this company made waves in the market when it announced an option agreement related to coronavirus treatment with the university of maryland, baltimore. check out the big spike on the chart… spex 3-month, daily chart — courtesy of stockstotrade.com the price eventually dropped … but it’s still on my watchlist. it could bounce again. what can we learn from these stocks? anything related to the coronavirus could spike at any time, for any reason. so watch recent winners. watch stocks that made my watchlist like inovio pharmaceuticals (nasdaq: ino), alpha pro tech (nyse: apt), decision diagnostics corp. (otcpk; decn), and altimmune inc. (nasdaq: alt). watch stocks like these daily — they could spike again. the next wave: potential coronavirus stock sympathy plays so how could a sympathy play for coronavirus stocks play out? here are a few examples. guardion health sciences inc. (nasdaq: ghsi) here’s a perfect example of a coronavirus sympathy play in action. guardion announced a partnership with another company to develop a formula for immune support. the press release denies any relation between the formula and coronavirus symptoms. but the mere mention of the word — even to deny any relation — caused a spike. check out the chart: ghsi chart: 3-month, daily candle, coronavirus sympathy play — courtesy of stockstotrade.com novan inc. (nasdaq: novn) here’s another great example of sector hype. this company makes products using nitric oxide. don’t know what that is? i don’t either. but this 2005 study claims it can help prevent the spread of the sars coronavirus. check out the chart: novn 3-month, daily chart — courtesy of stockstotrade.com for a lot of people, the connection to treatment in the past is enough to garner interest today. on march 9, it was trading around 40 cents at the open. then it spiked after hours and opened the next day at about double the price. no news, no announcement related to the coronavirus — great sympathy play. key tips for finding coronavirus stock sympathy plays now that you’ve got an idea of how even the slightest connection to the coronavirus can spark sympathy plays … how can you catch these opportunities early? here are some tips for finding potential plays for your watchlist. note that i’m saying your watchlist. this isn’t about trading just anything. don’t think you can outsmart the market … instead, take steps to prepare for when the market presents opportunities. follow the news an informed trader is a smart trader. follow the news … be obsessive about new products in the pipeline, news releases, or any potential catalysts that could create spikers in or around the sector. as we’ve seen so far with coronavirus plays, even fluff news can create some serious moves. look at related companies let’s talk about alpha pro tech. this company makes disposable protective apparel. here’s apt’s chart for the last 20 years… apt 20-year, daily chart with multiple spikes — courtesy of stockstotrade.com during the 2003 sars scare, shares went from less than a dollar to over $3 in about a month. in 2014, during the ebola scare, shares went from about $3 to $12. then, when coronavirus hit the radar, the stock went crazy — from about $3.50 to over $40. learn from this stock. look for companies that make disposable protective apparel like face masks. by looking at related companies, you could be ahead of the curve by having the next big spiker on your watchlist before everyone else. get my free weekly stock watchlist here. use a stock screener i hope you’re scanning every day for the biggest spikers that could alert you to trading opportunities. i use stockstotrade to find the most promising trades. by searching for specific criteria that you set, you can get alerts about potential plays that fit your strategy. sifting through thousands of stocks takes way too much time. be smart and use smart tools that can help you filter down to a manageable list of contenders. trading challenge © 2020 millionaire media, llc finding opportunities in the market is all about your ability to adapt, your mindset, and how prepared you are. how can you better prepare? invest in your education. i created my trading challenge to help new traders get their bearings in the market faster. i want to help traders speed up their learning curve by teaching them my successes and mistakes. my teachings are based on my 20+ years of experience as a trader. no, i don’t know everything. but i’ve learned a lot … i live by these rules and use these brokers. i want to share what i’ve learned with students like you. i don’t think you should have to learn things the hard way. i can help you learn important lessons like why it’s so important to trade small and why you must cut losses quickly. i don’t accept everyone who applies. i put a lot into my teaching. i don’t have time losers just looking for hot stock picks. i want students who are willing to work hard and make me look good by becoming successful. if you’re accepted, you’ll get access to interactive webinars with me and my top students, video lessons, access to an amazing chat room community, and much more. i purposefully trade with a small account to be on the same level as you — it’s how i teach you the process. and i share every single trade. learn along with me. become a self-sufficient trader who learns to trade through any kind of market. you must learn to be self-sufficient, i’m only your training wheels in the beginning so i love seeing students do better than me! — timothy sykes (@timothysykes) march 13, 2020 the final word on coronavirus stock sympathy plays coronavirus plays are everything in the market right now. it’s impossible to know how long it will last or how it will continue to play out. that’s why you’ve got to learn to adapt to the market. you have to be prepared to trade when the right opportunities come along. by paying attention to the biggest spikers in this hotter-than-hot sector, you can find trading opportunities … and potential sympathy plays. should you trade scared? absolutely. i trade like a coward. but i still trade. and i stay safe. i remember to cut my losses quickly. a cash position can be smart right now. that can help you stay more liquid and nimble. so when you find those hot coronavirus stock sympathy plays, you’re ready to make your move. that’s your bear market edge. listen to what the market tells you. don’t try to predict … react to what’s happening in the markets. then trade responsibly and intelligently based on that. how has the coronavirus affected your trading? i’m curious to hear about your approach! share how much has this post helped you? (6 votes, average: 5.00 out of 5) loading... about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more comments (1) march 18, 2020 at 9:12 am timothy sykes hey everyone, as many of you already know i grew up in a middle class family and didn't have many luxuries. but through trading i was able to change my circumstances --not just for me -- but for my parents as well. i now want to help you and thousands of other people from all around the world achieve similar results! which is why i've launched my trading challenge. i’m extremely determined to create a millionaire trader out of one my students and hopefully it will be you. so when you get a chance make sure you check it out. ps: don't forget to check out my free penny stock guide, it will teach you everything you need to know about trading. :) leave a reply cancel reply about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖