products pricing about webinars start your free trial log in resources listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 open search form listen to breaking brand — our new podcast! 🎧 may we suggest... buffer news case studies design news and trends online marketing opinion pinterest social media marketing the science of social media the science of social media your weekly sandbox for social media stories, insights, experimentation, and learning. get all episodes how to subscribe: itunes | google play | soundcloud | stitcher | rss instagram stories the best instagram stories of 2019 instagram stories was one of the most dynamic social media channels in 2019. so much happened with stories — from new developments with the product... read more the science of social media why social commerce will rule social media in 2020 what’s coming to social media in 2020? it can be hard to predict the future, especially for something as fast-changing as social media. but if... read more the science of social media brand secrets for standing out in a crowded world these days, we live in a world of infinite supply… in just a few clicks, anyone can start a business. anyone can create products, build... read more the science of social media the newest black friday + cyber monday ideas for your social media marketing find out the best ways to reach your customers on black friday and cyber monday with this list of eight strategies and ideas to try... read more the science of social media a crash course in custom audiences for your social media ads learn how to create custom audiences on facebook, instagram, twitter, pinterest, and linkedin. see the best ways to fit custom audiences into your strategy. read more social media marketing the keys to epic engagement on social media join us as we run through some of the reasons why investing in engagement makes business sense, and how to master engagement on instagram, facebook,... read more the science of social media news roundup: the future of facebook, pinterest’s latest changes, the most popular stories, and more see all the latest social media news about facebook's future, the loss of likes, pinterest's big moves, and the popularity of stories. read more social media marketing instagram stories: how 18 brands and influencers are using it (and you can too!) 10 billion. that’s the number of videos people watch on snapchat every day. the same potential consumption (maybe more) exists for instagram stories — quick... read more the science of social media the science behind the best instagram bios small-but-powerful. front-and-center. instagram bios are well worth the time and investment to write well and test often. read more the science of social media inside the facebook ads of your competitors: how to research, what to learn we're diving into the facebook ad library to give you tips on how to research the ads of your competitors and how to find inspiration... read more the science of social media can you make a great six-second ad? here’s what we learned from the best we’ve taken youtube’s best practices plus the list of the best six-second ads to find all the secret ingredients behind short and snappy video marketing. read more posts navigation 1 2 3 … 10 next about us our team feedback contact us tweet @ us press faq guides & tutorials case studies webinars what is social media marketing? the pro plan buffer for business buffer for nonprofits pricing pablo image creator iphone & ipad app android app browser extension apps & extras © 2020 buffer inc. we're hiring hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. by continuing to use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. learn more. got it