skip to main content a community of independent local bookstores search for books search enter the terms you wish to search for. toggle navigation menu main navigation locate an independent, local bookstore indie bestsellers indie next list reading group indie next list kids indie next list find indies selling ebooks the impact of amazon's growth the westing game (puffin modern classics) (paperback) by ellen raskin puffin books, 9780142401200, 192pp. publication date: april 12, 2004 other editions of this title: digital audiobook (12/4/2017) paperback (7/14/2020) paperback (6/1/1997) paperback (5/15/2018) hardcover (10/13/2003) prebound (6/1/1997) prebound (6/1/1997) list price: 7.99* * individual store prices may vary. description a newbery medal winner "a supersharp mystery...confoundingly clever, and very funny." —booklist, starred review a bizarre chain of events begins when sixteen unlikely people gather for the reading of samuel w. westing’s will. and though no one knows why the eccentric, game-loving millionaire has chosen a virtual stranger—and a possible murderer—to inherit his vast fortune, on things for sure: sam westing may be dead…but that won’t stop him from playing one last game! winner of the newbery medal winner of the boston globe/horn book award an ala notable book "great fun for those who enjoy illusion, word play, or sleight of hand." —the new york times book review "a fascinating medley of word games, disguises, multiple aliases, and subterfuges—a demanding but rewarding book." —the horn book about the author ellen raskin was born in milwaukee, wisconsin, and grew up during the great depression. she was the author of several novels, including the newbery medal-winning the westing game, the newbery honor-winning figgs & phantoms, the tattooed potato and other clues, and the mysterious disappearance of leon (i mean noel). she also wrote and illustrated many picture books and was an accomplished graphic artist. she designed dust jackets for dozens of books, including the first edition of madeleine l’engle’s classic a wrinkle in time. ms. raskin died at the age of fifty-six on august 8, 1984, in new york city. buy at local store enter your zip code below to purchase from an indie close to you. search online and in-store stock may differ. please call before going to store. or buy here amazon's true cost: lost jobs, storefronts, & revenue locate stores:by name|by zip why shop indie indie next list indie bestsellers indies first link to indiebound affiliate program sign in|create account get help|security & privacy|terms of use copyright © 2020 american booksellers association