related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag new mexico cop sees ghost, says possibly related to unsolved murders jason m. vaughn · 09/25/14 01:26pm goddamnit, new mexico. texas pot smokers filling up colorado homeless shelters jason m. vaughn · 09/24/14 03:22pm there are plenty of good reasons to move to a state like colorado or washington—the scenery, climate, schools, economy… anti-wolf activist investigated for bragging about running over wolves jason m. vaughn · 09/23/14 04:08am if you drive long enough through the mountains and valleys of the western united states, eventually you're going to hit and kill a wild animal with your car. utah man armed with sword catches polygamous ninjas breaking into home jason m. vaughn · 09/22/14 12:04pm there are some things that make utah unique—like floating in the great salt lake, or setting a new land speed record at bonneville, or maybe just getting attacked in your own home by a pair of armed polygamous women dressed as ninjas. satan hailed with grape juice, big dildo in oklahoma black mass jason m. vaughn · 09/22/14 10:59am it was an epic battle between crucifixes and deified baked goods vs. grape juice and dildos in oklahoma city on sunday night—and while it's unclear which side won in the fight over the "black mass", we know for certain that (as always happens when alleged adults engage in such fights) dignity and enlightenment once again went down to a crushing defeat. peyton manning's pizza businesses are mysteriously booming jason m. vaughn · 09/19/14 02:43pm colorado-based small business owner peyton manning—who also dabbles in professional athletics with often mixed results—says that thanks largely to unspecified "recent law changes" his 25 papa john's pizza franchises scattered across the state are all doing rather well. arizona man killed in horrifying wood chipper accident jason m. vaughn · 09/19/14 02:26pm it's difficult to imagine a more brutal death than being sucked through an industrial wood chipper—in fact, it's probably best for your sanity and general disposition to not imagine such things at all. more problems found at leaky new mexico nuclear waste dump jason m. vaughn · 09/19/14 12:40pm the new mexico dump which holds the nation's dirtiest laundry from nearly 70 years of nuclear weapons production was supposed to be a an accident-proof underground vault that would entomb radioactive waste in a 2,000-foot thick layer of salt for at least 10,000 years. western cinema: "the terror of tiny town" and family bonding jason m. vaughn · 09/18/14 03:17pm authors note: i've always liked westerns—especially the weirder and more obscure ones. this is the first in a series of occasional posts about some of my personal favorites. fast, intense wildfire leaves northern california town in ruins jason m. vaughn · 09/18/14 12:19pm this has already been a bad year for wildfires along much of the drought-parched west coast—but "bad" doesn't even begin to describe the catastrophe that struck the small northern california lumber town of weed this week after a quarter of the town burned to the ground in the space of a few hours. iconic bike that launched a million mid-life crises up for auction jason m. vaughn · 09/17/14 02:53pm there will always be a part of me that has a soft spot for the movie "easy rider," even though if we're being honest it really isn't a very good film. arizona gop vice chair: sterilize women who receive medicaid jason m. vaughn · 09/16/14 03:50am the arizona republican party's second-in-command resigned over the weekend after he called for the forced sterilization of women as a requirement for receiving public aid. "black mass" sold out as satanic fever grips oklahoma city jason m. vaughn · 09/15/14 11:40am wagons are being circled, tizzies are being thrown and children are being thought of in oklahoma city, as the state's religious leaders are urging the faithful to pray like they've never prayed before in preparation for the most eagerly-anticipated religious event in the history of the city—one which the catholic diocese of oklahoma claims could engulf the city with satanic evil via dry ice and a bucket of fake piss. hero bat dies trying to save oregon forest from jammin' guitarist jason m. vaughn · 09/14/14 11:45pm a noble but ultimately doomed bat gave its last full measure of devotion last week as it swooped in and bit a guitarist in the neck while he was pickin' and grinnin' with some friends in the oregon woods. letters from the west: dead fish and a clear conscience jason m. vaughn · 09/12/14 04:55pm i don't pretend to be a big outdoorsman. i'm just an average guy who likes good scenery. large, hungry bears hindering crews battling yosemite wildfire jason m. vaughn · 09/12/14 01:08pm it seems that the cruel hand of fate really wants the forests and meadows of yosemite national park to become a charred ruin, and is using every means at its disposal to try and make that happen. denver deputy suspended for beating inmate who mocked taekwondo skills jason m. vaughn · 09/11/14 04:50pm in a year that, by any measure, hasn't exactly been slopping over with shining examples of american law enforcement—the profoundly troubled denver sheriff's department may be the least brilliant of them all. montana barley crop ruined, beer about to get more expensive jason m. vaughn · 09/10/14 02:30pm nobody is calling it "beerpocalypsemageddon" or anything idiotic like that quite yet, and i'm certainly not implying that it's time to panic and start hoarding cases of beer in a deep, razor-wire covered pit in the backyard*—but you should probably know that beer could get a lot more expensive next year. dramatic photos capture yosemite national park wildfire jason m. vaughn · 09/09/14 03:30pm authorities say that a wildfire in yosemite national park that prompted the helicopter evacuation of dozens of people from the top of half dome is finally slowing down thanks to some cooler, more humid weather. the grand canyon squirrel kicking case has gone cold jason m. vaughn · 09/09/14 02:38pm it looks like the two mysterious pudknockers caught on a youtube video kicking a squirrel off the rim of the grand canyon in arizona might have gotten away with it. next page terms of service privacy policy