home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads seamus heaney’s advice to the young nietzsche on how to find yourself and the true value of education the eternal return: nietzsche’s brilliant thought experiment illustrating the key to existential contentment labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel “to be nobody-but-yourself — in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else — means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight.” by maria popova “no one can build you the bridge on which you, and only you, must cross the river of life,” wrote the thirty-year-old nietzsche. “the true and durable path into and through experience,” nobel-winning poet seamus heaney counseled the young more than a century later in his magnificent commencement address, “involves being true … to your own solitude, true to your own secret knowledge.” every generation believes that it must battle unprecedented pressures of conformity; that it must fight harder than any previous generation to protect that secret knowledge from which our integrity of selfhood springs. some of this belief stems from the habitual conceit of a culture blinded by its own presentism bias, ignorant of the past’s contextual analogues. but much of it in the century and a half since nietzsche, and especially in the years since heaney, is an accurate reflection of the conditions we have created and continually reinforce in our present informational ecosystem — a pavlovian system of constant feedback, in which the easiest and commonest opinions are most readily rewarded, and dissenting voices are most readily punished by the unthinking mob. e.e. cummings by edward weston (photograph courtesy of the center for creative photography) few people in the two centuries since emerson issued his exhortation to “trust thyself” have countered this culturally condoned blunting of individuality more courageously and consistently than e.e. cummings (october 14, 1894–september 3, 1962) — an artist who never cowered from being his unconventional self because, in the words of his most incisive and competent biographer, he “despised fear, and his life was lived in defiance of all who ruled by it.” a fortnight after the poet’s fifty-ninth birthday, a small michigan newspaper published a short, enormous piece by cummings under the title “a poet’s advice to students,” radiating expansive wisdom on art, life, and the courage of being yourself. it went on to inspire buckminster fuller and was later included in e.e. cummings: a miscellany revised (public library) — that wonderful out-of-print collection which the poet himself described as “a cluster of epigrams, forty-nine essays on various subjects, a poem dispraising dogmata, and several selections from unfinished plays,” and which gave us cummings on what it really means to be an artist. illustration from enormous smallness by matthew burgess, an illustrated tribute to e.e. cummings addressing those who aspire to be poets — no doubt in that broadest baldwinian sense of wakeful artists in any medium and courageous seers of human truth — cummings echoes the poet laura riding’s exquisite letters to an eight-year-old girl about being oneself and writes: a poet is somebody who feels, and who expresses his feelings through words. this may sound easy. it isn’t. a lot of people think or believe or know they feel — but that’s thinking or believing or knowing; not feeling. and poetry is feeling — not knowing or believing or thinking. almost anybody can learn to think or believe or know, but not a single human being can be taught to feel. why? because whenever you think or you believe or you know, you’re a lot of other people: but the moment you feel, you’re nobody-but-yourself. to be nobody-but-yourself — in a world which is doing its best, night and day, to make you everybody else — means to fight the hardest battle which any human being can fight; and never stop fighting. page from enormous smallness by matthew burgess cummings should know — just four years earlier, he had fought that hardest battle himself: when he was awarded the prestigious academy of american poets annual fellowship — the macarthur of poetry — cummings had to withstand harsh criticism from traditionalists who besieged him with hate for the bravery of breaking with tradition and being nobody-but-himself in his art. with an eye to that unassailable creative integrity buoyed by relentless work ethic, he adds: as for expressing nobody-but-yourself in words, that means working just a little harder than anybody who isn’t a poet can possibly imagine. why? because nothing is quite as easy as using words like somebody else. we all of us do exactly this nearly all of the time — and whenever we do it, we’re not poets. if, at the end of your first ten or fifteen years of fighting and working and feeling, you find you’ve written one line of one poem, you’ll be very lucky indeed. and so my advice to all young people who wish to become poets is: do something easy, like learning how to blow up the world — unless you’re not only willing, but glad, to feel and work and fight till you die. does that sound dismal? it isn’t. it’s the most wonderful life on earth. or so i feel. complement the thoroughly invigorating e.e. cummings: a miscellany revised with a lovely illustrated celebration of cummings’s creative bravery, then revisit pulitzer-winning poet robert penn warren on what it really means to find yourself and janis joplin on the courage of being what you find. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published september 25, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/09/25/e-e-cummings-advice/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artbookscreativityculturee. e. cummingsout of printphilosophypoetry view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.