 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the best blog name generators – find the perfect domain written by: anya skrba (published on: february 23rd, 2018 last updated: february 20th, 2019) posted in: blogging 1 comment written by anya skrba when starting a blog, one of the things that you must decide on is the name of your blog (domain). when you choose your blog name, it will be there forever, and this name will be what represents you online. it’s crucial that your name is catchy and easy to remember. a good domain name will increase the chances of people remembering it. your click rate can be higher if people recognize your blog in their search results. it’s a good idea to have an url and a blog name that match, as your potential readers will have an easier job finding your blog. but, given the fact that there are so many blogs today, chances are that the url you want is already taken. in these situations, you will have to do some digging to get a domain that relates well to your blog topic. recommended tool: but, coming up with the original domain name is not an easy task. this is why we decided to share these blog name generators that can help you achieve this. bust a name bust a name is a website that offers various filtering tools that will help you find the right domain name for your blogging needs. the first thing you need to do is filter the keywords you are looking for. once you do that, check the “ends” and “starts” options and see how your keyword fairs with them. you can narrow down your search by setting the number of characters you want to have. bust a name allows you to search for domains by their extensions including .org, .net, or .com. while looking for your perfect domain name, you will be able to see similar suggestions at the bottom of the page. are you clueless and have no idea where to start? don’t worry. bust a name gives a random domain option that you can use to brainstorm and get some ideas or choose a random domain that suits your needs. panabee unlike other domain generators, panabee doesn’t just offer various phonetic options of your chosen domain phrase. it also goes through the two largest social networks, twitter and facebook, and the whole web, to search for similar phrases or names that some other people are using. panabee also features a translating function and it allows you to search for related phrases on wikipedia. in case the domain name is available, you have the option to buy it through their partner registrar company, godaddy. pickydomains if you want to have a whole community of bloggers working on your name, then pickydomains is the right thing for you. all you have to do is register, explain all the details of the task: your niche, audience, market, goals, and name type you prefer. once you do that, the people at pickydomains will share all that information with a large community of users. there are a lot of marketers there, and they will start brainstorming various domain ideas that you might find valuable. you will get suggestions from experienced people, and all you have to do is choose the one you like the most. if you want to get a recommended domain name, however, you will have to pay a fee of $50. half of it will go to the person who created it while the other half will go to pickydomains. domain hole domain hole is a complete all-around domain name generator that can serve various purposes. on top of that, it has eight different approaches you can take to find a perfect blog title that you will love. here are eight tools you can use with domain hole: expired domain search: goes through an extensive database of expired domain names and you can see if you can make use of any to get better results. name spinner: enter your keyword and combine it with various other words to find interesting domain name suggestions. instant availability check: doesn’t have as many options, compared to some other tools, to find unregistered domains. complete check: find tlds of domains that are available. name generator: if you have no ideas for a blog name, use this tool to find brandable and memorable domain names. domain alerts: subscribe to this tool and you will be able to watch several domain names and get notified when they are available. bulk domain check: works as other tools, but if you enter more keyword options or domain names, it will cross-check them and give you better results. brainstormer: the name of this tools says it all; it helps you come up with new blog domain name ideas. name mesh name mesh is a perfect blog name generator if you have a couple of keywords up your sleeve. insert two or three keywords into the search box and generate a list of your own. name mesh has a different approach to delivering results. they will be categorized based on factors such as seo, similar names, new names, common names, and short names. name mesh relies on antonyms and synonyms to allow you to come up with unique domains while using around 20 other generators. when you search for keywords, it filters the results based on length, unregistered domains, or based on their domain extension. like other domain name generators, name mesh will give you keyword search suggestions to explore more options if needed. domainr domainr may not have a lot of tools, features, or filters for your domain name searches, but this tool works flawlessly. domainr can go through the whole domain name space between .org, .net. and .com. it can help you find out new domain names that have great potential. as we mentioned before, it is hard to find a good, brandable blog name today that ends with a traditional .com extension. this tool has the power to search through different tld’s which made some of the most successful niche blogs stand out and become famous. it relies on two external databases and has the power to track searches of around 2000 tlds. you can register a domain with over 200 accredited registrar companies. if you are looking to score big and create a real strategy around your name, domainr is the tool you need. lean domain search when you enter lean domain search, you will have to enter a single keyword, and search domains. this generator offers a lot of results, and sometimes there can be over a thousand suggestions for domain name ideas. the results that you get are all .com extensions, and they are all available. additionally, this tool also allows you to filter results by popularity, by length, and in alphabetical order. you can save the domain names you like and check them out later. you can also track your search history, share results if you are working with someone, and check your ideas, later on, to see if they are still available. most people that use lean domain search are out of fresh ideas, and they rely on this tool to come up with complete domain names. it’s a popular choice, it works well, and that’s why it’s on our list. softwarefindr name generator softwarefindr name generator is a nifty tool that lets you instantly search through thousands of different domain name combinations in seconds. this allows you to dramatically reduce the time spent coming up with a great name and more time executing on your ideas. unlike other generators, the sofwarefindr tool does all the heavy lifting behind the scenes by adding over a hundred different prefixes and suffixes to your keyword organized by most popular and the shortest length. most people that use this domain name generator are those wanting to take decisive actions and don’t want to sort through thousands of results. instead, they would much rather see the top 20 combination that’s available to speed further up the decision-making process. wordoid if you are struggling to find a unique name for your blog that will stand out from the crowd, then wordoid is the thing you’ve been looking for. how does wordoid work? it gives you a lot of different name options that will help people find your url. wordoid offers many languages including english, italian, french, and spanish. the second unusual feature is that you can choose if you want to base your results on some letters at the beginning, in the middle, or at the end. the third feature that attracts a lot of people to wordoid is the fact that you can choose if you want your suggested words to be completely natural. this makes the whole process a lot easier, and it’s quite convenient, you must agree. all the words created by wordoid are unique and designed to be brandable, meaning that they look and sound great. the words generated are ten letters long, max, and you can even combine two different languages to get an unusual combination. impossibility a domain name generator with a different approach. the first thing you have to do is brainstorm a keyword of your own and then add verbs, adjectives, and nouns to its beginning. impossibility gives you the option to add a 4, 5 or 6 letter word, or you can mix whatever you want with that keyword. it’s a great tool for brainstorming names which are available while having fun during the whole process. impossibility also links to namecheap or godaddy for names which are available, and you can continue to buy your name when you’ve made a decision. impossibility relies on several servers to give the best results possible. domain wheel domain wheel may have a simple and a clean look, but it’s based on complex combinative techniques. it’s one of the recently launched tools that is being updated by the day. like in most domain name generators, you will be able to give your own input and enter (unlimited) keywords, but you’ll also get some suggestions to get you started. after hitting the “search domain” button, the results will show up in three categories. fist one will render the most popular domain extensions like .com, .blog, .net, .org with a focus on the available ones, marked in green. next, you’ll get the genuine domain wheel results with proposals that are ‘handpicked’ for you. if you’re not happy with the list of generated domains, you will receive a third list of words inspired by the initial keyword you selected. these are based on various mixing and spinning actions (append/prepend, dropping letters, backward spelling, mixing syllables, doubling letters, etc). it’s great to see new tools raising the bar and creating awesome domains for new websites joining the web. ready to start your own self-hosted blog? if you’re just starting out, we recommend going with wordpress. you will be able to install any themes, plugins, and services that you wish, run ads and monetize the blog the way you want. there are practically no limitations to a self-hosted wordpress blog. for starting your first blog, we always recommend bluehost. with bluehost, even the lowest-priced option gives you a free domain name, ssl certificate to make your blog secure, and 24/7 support. bluehost will let you register a new domain name for free. there are 14 top level domains you can choose from including .com, .net and .org to name a few. a great thing about them is, if the domain name you wanted is already in use, bluehost will let you choose one later. this will give you time to do some research and thinking. conclusion with the options above, you will have a lot to choose from and find a tool that suits you the most. explore these domain name generators, and we guarantee that you will be able to come up with the best name that will suit your need. take your time and don’t make a quick decision; remember, you’ll have to live with it for a while, and many things will depend on it. best of luck and feel free to share your experiences with these tools or mention some other generator that we missed. this entry was posted in blogging. bookmark the permalink. additional reading the difference between a blog title and a blog domain name (url) 6 steps to discovering the best blog name ideas how to move your blog from squarespace to wordpress how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress how to start a wordpress blog: self-hosted and freemium start your own blog this guide is an introduction to mastering the art of blogging. it provides easy to follow steps to start, maintain, and grow your blog. read the guide « previous best of the best: 10 online grammar and punctuation checker tools 2020 next » ten characteristics of a blog and a quality blog post one comment on “the best blog name generators – find the perfect domain” john dcosta november 2, 2019 at 9:50 am really a great tool list! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog categories blogging wordpress interviews search how to start a blog the beginner's guide 2020 free guide + ebook learn blogging become a successful blogger learn wordpress understand the best practices blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.