msn back to msn home news powered by microsoft news web search skip to navigation skip to content skip to footer sign in change language & content: afrique francophone (français) américa latina (español) argentina (español) australia (english) belgië (nederlands) belgique (français) brasil (português) canada (english) canada (français) česká republika (čeština) chile (español) colombia (español) danmark (dansk) deutschland (deutsch) españa (español) france (français) india (english) india (मराठी) india (हिंदी) india (বাংলা) india (తెలుగు) indonesia (bahasa indonesia) international edition (english) ireland (english) italia (italiano) magyarország (magyar) malaysia (english) méxico (español) nederland (nederlands) new zealand (english) norge (norsk, bokmål) österreich (deutsch) perú (español) philippines (english) polska (polski) portugal (português) schweiz (deutsch) singapore (english) south africa (english) suisse (français) suomi (suomi) sverige (svenska) türkiye (türkçe) united arab emirates (english) united kingdom (english) united states (english) united states (español) venezuela (español) việt nam (tiếng việt) ελλάδα (ελληνικά) россия (pусский) ישראל (עברית)‏ الإمارات العربية المتحدة (العربية‏) المملكة العربية السعودية (العربية‏) مصر (العربية‏) ไทย (ไทย) 한국 (한국어) 中华人民共和国 (简体中文) 台灣 (繁體中文) 日本 (日本語) 香港特别行政區 (繁體中文) switch to latino (español) feedback help en choose a language united states (english) - en united states (español) - es news headlines coronavirus election 2020 us world good news politics fact check opinion spotlights crime local technology science for good video photos more weather coronavirus news election 2020 entertainment sports money lifestyle health & fitness food & drink travel autos video kids for good live video: president trump gives update on federal coronavirus response. click to watch full coverage... adchoices a look inside navy hospital ships fighting covid-19 stocks close sharply lower, ending big 3-day rally despite recent feud, giannis pays harden a big compliment medical schools considering early graduation for students trader joe’s is temporarily closing some stores to clean and restock shelves hall of fame golfer's home burns to ground cheesecake factory furloughs 41,000 workers amid coronavirus italy virus deaths rise by more than 900 maduro threatens 'cowboy' trump after drug charge how to jumpstart your car if you haven't driven it in weeks what is 'tiger king' and why is everybody watching it? fox host cuts off conway when she attacks de blasio 'it can kill anyone': 'perfectly healthy' texas dad dies from virus mcdavid, others give thoughts on nhl playoffs trump orders gm to make ventilators depp allowed to pursue suit vs. heard olympians have another year to prepare for tokyo. it’s a blessing and a curse. poll: nearly 25% in us lost job or furloughed amid outbreak prince charles and camilla clap while quarantined to thank nhs workers crazy lincoln monster truck limo proves too much is never enough coronavirus emerges as major threat to u.s. election process grim milestone: confirmed covid-19 cases in us top 100,000 kelly ripa's daughter on quarantining with her famous parents ufc champ 'focused on being a first responder' amid pandemic mall giant to tenants: you must pay rent during virus closures grandfather comforts crying wife through care facility window amid isolation what’s the difference between long and short blocks? campaigns pivot as races sidelined by virus who will get what and when from the $2 trillion relief package da brat comes out on instagram, introduces girlfriend report: nba could hold play-in tourney, playoffs in las vegas ford says it's pulling out all stops to make ventilators 15 things under $15 that will keep you entertained at home gm deal for ventilators pauses over cost, white house shops around sanders: 'steep road' to beat biden defiant gop rep. criticizes leaders for preventing him from speaking review: 'the glass hotel' and 'valentine' are spellbinding novels mlb, players reach deal on service time, salaries, draft zoom's massive 'overnight success' took 9 years 20 brain teasers that'll give you a serious mental workout a population stuck inside may be getting more interested in jeeps trump campaign nixes 2020 ad blitz touting economy 5 lives. 5 countries. 5 weeks. how coronavirus swept the globe regan out at fox business after coronavirus comments herbstreit: 'shocked' if nfl, cfb happen in '20 calculator tells you how big your coronavirus check could be 'bbc dad' is struggling to work from home amid coronavirus pandemic 2020 land rover discovery sport: not much more than a pretty face pete buttigieg on life after the trail public figures sorry for virus downplay the u.s. now leads the world in confirmed coronavirus cases donald g. mcneil jr. 1 day ago a look inside navy hospital ships fighting covid-19 stocks close sharply lower, ending big 3-day rally scientists warned that the united states someday would become the country hardest hit by the coronavirus pandemic. that moment arrived on thursday. © dave sanders for the new york times a line for coronavirus testing outside of elmhurst hospital center in queens on wednesday. in the united states, at least 81,321 people are known to have been infected with the coronavirus, including more than 1,000 deaths — more cases than china, italy or any other country has seen, according to data gathered by the new york times. sign up for the morning briefing newsletter bing covid-19 tracker: latest numbers by country and state with 330 million residents, the united states is the world’s third most populous nation, meaning it provides a vast pool of people who can potentially get covid-19, the disease caused by the virus. and it is a sprawling, cacophonous democracy, where states set their own policies and president trump has sent mixed messages about the scale of the danger and how to fight it, ensuring there was no coherent, unified response to a grave public health threat. 3 stocks we’re doubling down on in 2020 ad microsoft expert: this is the #1 cash back card on the market ad microsoft $150 bonus + 0% apr until mid-2021 ad microsoft full screen 1/50 slides © mike hutchings/reuters the world is battling the covid-19 outbreak that the world health organization declared a global pandemic on march 11. (pictured) a man walks past a poster covering the side of a building ahead of a 21-day lockdown aimed at limiting the spread of coronavirus disease (covid-19) in cape town, south africa, on march 26. 2/50 slides © marko djurica/reuters volunteers sit as they set up beds inside the novi sad fair to accommodate people who suffer mild symptoms of the coronavirus in novi sad, serbia, on march 27. 3/50 slides © henry nicholls/reuters imam ajmal masroor performs a friday prayer service, broadcast online using his phone, at wightman road mosque in london, on march 27. 4/50 slides © alessandro garofalo/reuters benches on a promenade in bari are cordoned off as the spread of the coronavirus continues, in bari, italy, on march 27. slideshow continues on the next slide 5/50 slides © andrew kelly/reuters scott lobaido, 55, from staten island, posts a large "thank you" note dedicated to the health workers of the nearby elmhurst hospital center who are treating and testing people for the coronavirus in queens, new york city, on march 27. 6/50 slides © adnan abidi/reuters sushil kumar, a migrant worker, walks along a highway with his family as he looks out for transport to return to his village, in ghaziabad, on the outskirts of new delhi, on march 27. 7/50 slides © afriadi hikmal/nurphoto/getty images volunteers take a break after spraying disinfectant liquid at residential areas in jakarta, on march 27. 8/50 slides © navesh chitrakar/reuters a stranded tourist from germany smiles on a bus as she leaves for the airport to board a chartered flight back to germany on the fourth day of the lockdown imposed by nepal's government amid concerns on the spread of the coronavirus disease, in kathmandu, nepal, on march 27. 9/50 slides © mladen antonov/afp/getty images people stand apart at intervals as a method of social distancing as they wait for a train at a commuter train station in bangkok, thailand, on march 27. slideshow continues on the next slide 10/50 slides © rodrigo urzagasti/reuters local workers clean the streets as a preventive measure, in santa cruz, bolivia, on march 26. 11/50 slides © issei kato/reuters 'closed' notices are displayed at the entrance of galaxy harajuku, during the coronavirus disease outbreak, in tokyo, japan, on march 26. 12/50 slides © yonhap/epa-efe/shutterstock south korea's prime minister chung sye-kyun, center, speaks via video conference with senior government officials and heads of local governments in seoul, on march 27. the meeting was held to discuss government measures to curb the spread of coronavirus. 13/50 slides © dave lintott/shutterstock the city center during quarantine lockdown for coronavirus pandemic in wellington, new zealand, on march 27. 14/50 slides © government of sao paulo /epa-efe/shutterstock prisoners from that state manufacturing face masks to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, in sao paulo, brazil, on march 26. groups of inmates, began production of 320 thousand protective masks to curb the spread of the disease and respond to the surge in demand in the country. brazil has 2985 cases with 77 deaths. slideshow continues on the next slide 15/50 slides © bagus indahono/epa-efe/shutterstock indonesian drone pilots and air force crew set up the drone to spray disinfectant to curb the spread of coronavirus in jakarta, indonesia, on march 27. 16/50 slides © anadolu agency/getty images cars and buses are seen in guangzhou, china on march 26. after two months of hard work, the new coronavirus was brought under control and cities in china began to resume operations. 17/50 slides © eduardo munoz alvarez/getty images new york mayor bill de blasio holds a face shield as he speaks to the media during a visit to the brooklyn navy yard where local industrial firms have begun manufacturing personal protective equipment (ppe) on march 26 in new york city. 18/50 slides © javed sultan/anadolu agency/getty images rashtrapati bhavan illuminated in the evening on day two of the complete lockdown, imposed as a preventive measure against the spreading of coronavirus in delhi, india on march 26. 19/50 slides © narayan maharjan/nurphoto/getty images patan durbar square listed in unesco world heritage site is empty during the third day of a 7 day nationwide lockdown as concerns about the spread of coronavirus in lalitpur, nepal on march 26. 20/50 slides © oli scarff/afp/getty images a blue heart is lit up on the tower in blackpool, england on march 26 as a sign of public admiration for the national health service. 21/50 slides © rich graessle/icon sportswire/getty images a general view of the sign for the covid-19 testing at kean university on march 26 in union, new jersey. 22/50 slides © jonas güttler/picture alliance/getty images a man walks between wagons in the lobby of the freight station. according to deutsche bahn, an increasing demand for rail transportation has been noticeable for days now due to the corona crisis on march 26 in hagen, germany. 23/50 slides © matt york/ap photo members of the arizona national guard pack and sort food items at a food bank on march 26 in mesa, arizona. 24/50 slides © christian hartmann/reuters medical workers gather around an ambulance during a transfer operation in strasbourg, france on march 26. 25/50 slides © paul kane/getty images the cruise ship silver whisper heads into fremantle harbour to refuel on march 26 in fremantle, australia. west australian premier mark mcgowan has requested the australian navy direct the artania cruise ship moored off the fremantle coast to leave australian waters following confirmation seven passengers had tested positive for covid-19. 26/50 slides © tauseef mustafa/afp/getty images people stand on designated areas to maintain social distancing in srinagar, india on march 26. 27/50 slides © tomohiro ohsumi/getty images commuters wearing face masks make their way to work on march 26 in tokyo, japan. 28/50 slides © bernadett szabo/reuters a worker wearing a protective suit looks at signs partially covered in foam while cleaning and disinfecting an underpass to prevent the spread of coronavirus disease in downtown budapest, hungary on march 26. 29/50 slides © aurelien meunier/getty images police officers gather at night on an empty trocadero square in front of the eiffel tower on march 25 in paris, france. 30/50 slides © drew angerer/getty images flanked by vice president mike pence (l) and treasury secretary steven mnuchin, president donald trump speaks during a briefing on the coronavirus pandemic on march 25 in washington, d.c. 31/50 slides © stefano montesi/corbis/getty images a general view shows a deserted via del tritone during the emergency to stop the spread of the coronavirus on march 25 in rome, italy. 32/50 slides © ted s. warren/ap photo empty yellow trailers used to hold airplane fuselages sit idle in front of a mural on a door at boeing co.'s manufacturing facility on march 25 in renton, washington. 33/50 slides © patrick semansky/ap photo people walk in an empty lincoln memorial reflecting pool in washington d.c on march 25. 34/50 slides © angela weiss/afp/getty images a sign is displayed at a coffee shop on march 25 in new york city. 35/50 slides © pilar olivares/reuters a cleaner disinfects an alley of the vila ipiranga slum, in niteroi near rio de janeiro, brazil, on march 25. 36/50 slides © amit dave/reuters migrant workers walk with their children as they look out for transport to return to their villages, after india ordered a 21-day nationwide lockdown to limit the spreading of the virus, in ahmedabad, on march 25. 37/50 slides © andreas gebert/reuters a worker moves toilet paper at a storage facility of the franz mensch company, in buchloe, germany, on march 25. 38/50 slides © tsvangirayi mukwazhi/ap photo people join a queue to buy maize meal at a supermarket in harare, zimbabwe, on march 25. zimbabwe's public hospital doctors went on strike on wednesday over what they called a lack of adequate protective gear as the pandemic begins to spread in the country. 39/50 slides © clodagh kilcoyne/reuters people walk along sandymount strand practicing social distancing, in dublin, ireland, as seen in this picture released on march 25. 40/50 slides © anupam nath/ap photo indian firefighters spray disinfectants as a preventive measure, in guwahati, india, on march 25. 41/50 slides © hagen hopkins/getty images director of civil defence emergency management sarah stuart-black speaks during a press conference ahead of a nationwide lockdown at parliament on march 25, in wellington. new zealand will go into lockdown from 11:59 pm on wednesday. new zealand currently has 205 confirmed cases of covid-19. 42/50 slides © behrouz mehri, kazuhiro nogi/afp/getty images this combination of pictures, shows an electronic 2020 tokyo olympic games countdown clock on march 24, showing remaining days to the opening ceremony before the postponement announcement, left, and the clock on early march 25 after the announcement showing today's date instead of the countdown days, right, outside tokyo station. 43/50 slides © anthony devlin/getty images 5-year-old charlie rose places a drawing of a rainbow in her front window as schools remain closed on march 24 in manchester, united kingdom. 44/50 slides © jenny evans/getty image staff closes the main gate at taronga zoo on march 25, in sydney, australia. taronga zoo has temporarily closed its doors to the public as the australian government introduces stricter social distancing measures and the shut down of non-essential services, while restaurants and cafes are allowed to remain open for takeaway only. 45/50 slides © sivaram v/reuters police officers stop vehicles and check their papers on a highway during 21-day nationwide lockdown in kochi, india on march 25. 46/50 slides © alexei druzhinin/tass/getty images russia's president vladimir putin wears a yellow protective suit on his visit to the novomoskovsky multipurpose medical center for patients suspected of the covid-19 coronavirus infection, on march 24, in moscow, russia. 47/50 slides © blair gable/reuters canada's leader of the government in the house of commons pablo rodriguez speaks in the house of commons as legislators convene to give the government power to inject billions of dollars in emergency cash to help individuals and businesses through the economic crunch, at parliament hill on march 24 in ottawa, canada. 48/50 slides © sakchai lalit/ap photo people practice social distancing as they sit on chairs spread apart in a waiting area for take-away food orders at a shopping mall in hopes of preventing the spread of the coronavirus in bangkok, thailand on march 24. 49/50 slides © liam mcburney/pa via ap a man walking a dog past graffiti with the writing, "wash your hands, we're in this together", in belfast, northern ireland on march 24. 50/50 slides © rajanish kakade/ap photo pigeons fly at a deserted gateway of india monument in mumbai, india on march 24. indian prime minister narendra modi has decreed a 21-day lockdown across the nation of 1.3 billion people “to save india” from the coronavirus pandemic. 50/50 slides slideshow by photo services although the american medical system is unsurpassed and its public health system has a reputation as one of the finest in the world, a series of missteps and lost opportunities dogged the nation’s response. among them: a failure to take the pandemic seriously even as it engulfed china, a deeply flawed effort to provide broad testing for the virus that left the country blind to the extent of the crisis, and a dire shortage of masks and protective gear to protect doctors and nurses on the front lines, as well as ventilators to keep the critically ill alive. china’s leaders, stung by the sars epidemic in 2003 and several bird flu scares since then, had a deeply flawed early response to the outbreak that began in the city of wuhan, with local officials suppressing news of the outbreak. news to stay informed. advice to stay safe. click here for complete coronavirus coverage from microsoft news but china’s autocratic government acted with ferocious intensity after the belated start. singapore, taiwan, south korea and japan quickly began preparing for the worst. the united states instead remained preoccupied with business as usual. impeachment. harvey weinstein. brexit and the oscars. only a few virologists recognized the threat for what it was. the virus was not influenza, but it had the hallmarks of the spanish flu: relatively low lethality, but relentlessly transmissible. cellphone videos leaking out of china showed what was happening as it spread in wuhan: dead bodies on hospital floors, doctors crying in frustration, rows of unattended coffins outside the crematories. what the cameras missed — in part because beijing made western journalists’ lives difficult by withholding visas and imposing quarantines — was the slow, relentless way china’s public health system was hunting down the virus, case by case, cluster by cluster, city by city. for now, at least, china has containing the coronavirus with draconian measures. but the pathogen had embarked on a grand tour of most countries on earth, with devastating epidemics in iran, italy, france. more videos emerged of prostrate victims, exhausted nurses and lines of coffins. the united states, which should have been ready, was not. there was no pentagon ready to fight the war on this pandemic, no wartime draft law. there was eventually a white house coronavirus task force, but it has been led by politicians, not medical experts. the centers for disease control and prevention is one of the great disease-detective agencies in the world, and its doctors have contributed mightily in skirmishes against ebola, zika and any number of other health threats. but the agency retreated into silence, its director, dr. robert redfield, almost invisible — humbled by a fiasco in the failure to produce basic diagnostic testing. now at least 160 million americans have been ordered to stay home in states from california to new york. schools are closed, often along with bars, restaurants and many other businesses. hospitals are coping with soaring numbers of patients in new york city, even as supplies of essential protective gear and equipment dwindle. other hospitals, other communities fear what may be coming. the world will be a different place when the pandemic is over. india may surpass the united states as the country with the most deaths. like the united states, it, too, is a vast, democracy with deep internal divisions. but its population, 1.3 billion, is far larger, and its people are crowded even more tightly into megacities. china could still stumble into a new round of contagion as its economy restarts, and be forced to do it all again. in the meantime, with the virus loose in the streets while millions of americans huddle indoors, when will it be safe to come out and go back to work? “the virus will tell us,” said dr. william schaffner, a preventive medicine specialist at vanderbilt university medical school. when a baseline of daily testing is established across the country, a drop in the percentage of positive tests will signal that the virus has found as many hosts as it can for the moment, and is beginning to recede. when hospital admissions have hit a clear peak and begun to plateau, “we can feel optimistic,” dr. schaffner said. “and when they begin to drop, we can begin to smile.” that moment may arrive this summer. but as soon as the first of americans begin venturing cautiously out, we will have to start planning for the second wave. please check back for updates to this developing story. read more microsoft may earn an affiliate commission if you purchase something through recommended links in this article. adchoices 1 2 3 4 you may like ad microsoft 3 stocks we’re doubling down on in 2020 the motley fool expert: this is the #1 cash back card on the market creditcards.com $150 bonus + 0% apr until mid-2021 nextadvisor more from the new york times a virus’s effects: coughs, chills and sometimes a forgiving spirit he had coronavirus. now he’s jobless and afraid to hug his children. i am hospitalized with the coronavirus visit site adchoices feedback © 2020 microsoft privacy & cookies terms of use about our ads help newsletter msn worldwide msn blog about us editorial standards found the story interesting? like us on facebook to see similar stories i'm already a fan, don't show this again facebook app for windows 10 connect with friends faster than ever with the new facebook app. get the app send msn feedback we appreciate your input! how can we improve? please give an overall site rating: submit close privacy statement help help & support