related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag a farewell to the best restaurant in new york: the cloisters' trie café rich juzwiak · 08/06/15 09:56am it is not often that someone comes along who is a true friend and a good writer. caity weaver was both. she is not dead, nor is she a spider, but she is gone now, and that, i think, is cause for a tribute. the best restaurant in the world is: disney's epcot theme park caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:10am for the past year, rich juzwiak and caity weaver have scoured new york in search of the city’s greatest restaurant. this spring, the authors expanded their quest into a global hunt: the search for the best restaurant in the world. due to time and budget constraints, it was determined that the most efficient method to travel the world would be via the world showcase in walt disney world’s epcot theme park, where 11 distinct nations are represented by themed architecture, shops, costumes, and restaurants. the authors would spend four full days in epcot, taking one meal in each of the 11 countries represented, plus surrendering a disastrous afternoon to a marathon drinking challenge. in between meals, they would explore the park itself. shot, sake, margarita, slush: the best drinking around the world caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: innoventions caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: the uk's rose & crown pub & dining room caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: morocco's restaurant marrakesh caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: canada's le cellier caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: living with the land caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: journey into imagination with figment caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: norway's kringla bakeri og kafe caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: captain eo starring michael jackson caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: spaceship earth caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: the circle of life caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: america's unnamed funnel cake kiosk caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: germany's biergarten restaurant caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: japan's teppan edo caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best spectacle in the world is: illuminations: reflections of earth caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best ride in the world is: ellen's energy adventure caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: mexico's san angel inn restaurante caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. the best restaurant in the world is: france's les chefs de france caity weaver · 04/30/15 11:00am caity weaver and rich juzwiak, gawker’s chief restaurant critics, recently ate, drank, and gasped their way through every international pavilion and theme park attraction at walt disney world’s epcot. this is their review. next page terms of service privacy policy