the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop newswire the foo fighters have already rescheduled some of their van tour 2020 dates you may also like news foo fighters to revisit 1995 tour stops on 25th anniversary tour britt hayes2/18/20 11:23am news netflix signs up for another course of sex education danette chavez2/11/20 9:57am tv club a wholesome queer teen relationship takes sex education to another level priyanka bose2/20/20 6:00am more from g/o media read on coronavirus has slashed global air pollution. this interactive map shows how. read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe gwen ihnat 3/17/20 2:07pm • filed to:music musicfoo fighters 1 save photo: lester cohen (getty images for the recording academy) to commemorate its 25th anniversary, the foo fighters had planned, instead of a giant arena rock tour, a pared-down version of that: the van tour 2020 was going to visit some of the same spots that first ff tour did in 1995, like phoenix, knoxville, and green bay, wisconsin to promote the band’s upcoming album. note the verb tense, because of course along with nearly everything else in today’s coronavirus world, the van tour 2020 has been canceled. must have been a tough decision for foo fighters frontman dave grohl, a guy who continued the band’s 20th anniversary tour after he broke his leg. but, as we all know, it’s the right one. as grohl put it in a public message on monday, “playing a gig with a sock full of broken bones is one thing, but playing a show when your health and safety is in jeopardy is another…” advertisement in keeping with the band’s typical light-at-the-end-of-the-tunnel philosophy, that same announcement notes that some of the dates have already been rescheduled. a nice thought that by december we could possibly be back to communing in large groups, drinking beer out of solo cups, and rocking our fool heads off at a foo fighters show. so mark your end-of-year calendars: phoenix, talking stick resort arena previous date: april 12, 2020 new date: december 5, 2020 albuquerque, new mexico, santa ana star center previous date: april 14, 2020 new date: december 3, 2020 oklahoma city, oklahoma, chesapeake energy arena previous date: april 16, 2020 new date: dec. 1, 2020 advertisement wichita, kan., intrust bank arena previous date: april 18, 2020 new date: tba knoxville, tenn., thompson-boling arena previous date: april 20, 2020 new date: tba advertisement gwen ihnat posts gwen ihnat is the editorial coordinator for the a.v. club. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club nyu tisch dean replies to pleas for tuition refunds with bizarre video of her dancing to r.e.m. we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? jem from jem and the holograms knows the best way to be a superstar these days is to stay indoors share tweet