this app works best with javascript enabled. popular psychology of spending lifestyle creep/inflation digital nomad life travel and lifestyle financial independence how life-changing things happen changing your life building wealth best practices money-saving habits millennial money generating income getting out of debt opportunities to save saving money retire early retire by 40 rv retirement retirement planning about popular changing your life psychology of spending lifestyle creep/inflation digital nomad life travel and lifestyle financial independence how life-changing things happen saving money building wealth best practices money-saving habits millennial money generating income getting out of debt opportunities to save retirement planning retire early retire by 40 rv retirement about © 2020 think save retire. latest posts advice 31 ways to spend your coronavirus quarantine time growing your mind (and maybe even your money) there are many ways you could be spending your time right now. why not make it a period of growth? 3 hours ago·11 min read popular posts this study suggests that you're wasting a ton of home space nov 5, 2019·8 min read how to avoid lifestyle creep when you’re surrounded by rich people nov 6, 2019·9 min read the truth about extended warranties, and what to do instead mar 27, 2018·5 min read frugal living: is life more difficult for those of us who are frugal? may 27, 2019·4 min read see all financial literacy how to invest when you feel like you're behind you know you should’ve started investing yesterday, but, since you can’t, start today! a day ago·7 min read generating income forex trading for beginners: how i supplemented my income in 12 months you can supplement your income by part-time forex trading. mar 25·11 min read side hustle freelancers: 7 mistakes you should avoid when filing 2019 self-employment tax if you are a freelancer, your tax situation changes. prepare for filing your taxes and learn what mistakes to avoid. mar 24·11 min read never miss a story sign up for think save retire to be the first to receive the most personal finance content you won’t find anywhere else. subscribe side hustle freelancers: 7 mistakes you should avoid when filing 2019 self-employment tax if you are a freelancer, your tax situation changes. prepare for filing your taxes and learn what mistakes to avoid. mar 24·11 min read side hustle increasing income: should you side hustle or focus on your career? you can increase your income with a side hustle, but you can also increase your income by focusing on your current career. mar 23·9 min read advice 11 behaviors you shouldn’t be ashamed of during social distancing and a pandemic this is probably your first pandemic. it's understandable if you're unsure how to react. mar 20·6 min read side hustle don’t write these off: 6 myths and misconceptions about side hustle taxes when you have a side hustle, you may be getting some crummy advice from friends about how to file your taxes. watch out for these common myths and misconceptions about side hustle taxes. mar 19·7 min read working in corporate america 7 tips for working from home and staying productive amid the pandemic if you're one of the thousands of professionals working remotely amid the covid-19 outbreak, we've got some tips to help you find your footing from your home office. mar 18·7 min read book review fire is for everyone, and this author will tell you exactly how to achieve it: money school with lacey filipich school doesn't teach you everything you need to know about finances to be successful. lacey filipich seeks to fill in those gaps. mar 18·3 min read work smart desk stretches: how to fix the damage of inactivity we spend the majority of our days sitting. what exactly is it doing to our bodies, and can be combat it? mar 17·5 min read college degrees is college worth it? why i don’t want my child to get a degree college isn’t as affordable as it used to be, so why aren’t we telling kids about all the other options? mar 16·5 min read real estate real estate crowdfunding: everything you need to know real estate crowdfunding can be a great option for getting into real estate. mar 13·7 min read 123...76 popularmedia rap sheet aboutcontact write / partnersubscribepost archives sponsored postsauthorsdisclosure post archivesdisclosure this page may include affiliate links. we may get paid when you click on a link and buy a product, at no extra cost to you. click here here to learn more. © 2018—2020 think save retire all rights reserved.