home briefing archive features playlists get popjustice emails about popjustice about popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize contact general contact details submit music forum recent posts porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" hello! in theory you should only be seeing this if you're using a mobile or tablet. how's the site looking? if anything's wonky click here and tell us so we can fix it. thanks! x briefing features playlists new music friday: the popjustice edit big hit energy 21st century pop 2018% solid pop music full archive about about popjustice contacting popjustice send music popjustice: est 2000 the popjustice twenty quid music prize forum posts by tag the weeknd 27 posts have a read the briefing new/old music friday: selena gomez gives the people what they want "i want doesn't get" except sometimes it does. have a read videos lana del rey feat the weeknd — 'lust for life' there's a smile. have a read videos the weeknd feat daft punk — 'i feel it coming' have a read videos the weeknd — 'party monster' have a read the news rihanna and the weeknd have apparently been approached about a prince grammys tribute according to a source with strangely well-placed contacts at billboard, rihanna, the weeknd and bruno mars have all been "discussed or approached" regarding a prince tribute at next month's grammys.… have a read features the top 45 singles of 2016 the 45 best pop singles of 2016. spoiler: it's bad news for calum scott. have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: the weeknd, firefox ak and more to be honest you're better off just listening to the weeknd album. have a read the news the weeknd's shared the tracklisting for his new album 'starboy' 'love in the sky' hitmaker the weeknd's popped the tracklisting for his forthcoming 'starboy' album onto the www. he's also released two new songs, which is nice of him. the album features… have a read the news lady gaga, the weeknd and bruno mars are all performing at the victoria's secret fashion show thing country singer lady gaga, diminutive hat connoisseur bruno mars and semi-reformed miserablist the weeknd will all be having a singsong at the victoria's secret fashion show, it's been announced. the extended catwalk… have a read the briefing the week's best new releases: galantis, busted, the weeknd, nathan sykes and more the best new music friday in a while. well done pop. welcome to popjustice, a glorified pop blog celebrating 21st century pop, the people who make it, and the people who make the people who make it. more outlook for march 26: you are advised to stay indoors until duageddon passes physical by dua lipa is the biggest song right now for what it's worth apple music's most streamed song is in your eyes - the weeknd the best popstar is currently dua lipa and that's that 4 years, 1 month, 30 days since the last rihanna album pop as in popular 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 3 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" further listening greatest hits lou pearlman interview: "once in a while we get it wrong" a variety of papier mache britney spears heads 50 questions with mark ronson… further reading 1 porter robinson interview: "my greatest desire is to feel understood" 2 a conversation with josef salvat: "i wanted to hit rock bottom" 3 new music & merch friday: tove lo's covered a classic and you can buy a stuffed cat 4 new music friday: it's ava max vs floss in the kings & queens showdown 5 a conversation with gracey: "i'm not sad, i’m just honest" 6 new music friday: lady gaga makes an understated comeback est 2000. still going. socials spotify facebook twitter instagram soundcloud 'quick links' about popjustice contact popjustice sign up for the newsletter submit music est 2000 twenty quid music prize playlists 21st century pop new music friday: the popjustice edit 2018% solid pop music the sound of popjustice playlist archive © 2020 popjustice ltd. scrolled to the bottom now you're here privacy, ts & cs, cookies etc corrections search for: search input your search keywords and press enter. close this module email! it's like social media, but worse. how about emails from popjustice? (don't worry, they don't get sent very often.) [email protected]get pj emailsform is being submitted, please wait a bit.accept the standard gdpr stuff in pj's privacy policy popjustice uses cookies. click here for more info. i don't care, i love it i do care, i don't love it privacy and cookies necessary always enabled