skip to content the carbolic soap co. traditional carbolic soap menu shop welcome what is carbolic soap? interviews contact us delivery & returns terms & conditions my account basket checkout scroll down to content welcome coronavirus (covid-19) update 23/03/2020 – many thanks to you all that have purchased our carbolic soap to help stop the spreading of the coronavirus. we have a new batch of carbolic soap, which maybe the last for a while as we cannot obtain the “acid” anymore. very upsetting times as we want to keep our hand in the fight of this terrible virus. unfortunately, we have had to raise the price slightly due to the last batch of key ingredients putting their costs up. we have not raised our prices through all this as we believe that is immorally wrong. however we cannot absorb this ridiculous price increase. we have kept it to a minimum however, literary coving costs. stock will be added daily until we have no more. at which time we will put a notice up informing of so. we only have limited stock. please be considerate. any large orders – over 4 bars will be cancelled. demand is high and we do not want to disappoint. due to self isolation we now do not have any office staff. this means we cannot take or fulfil any phone orders. please make all orders online and any correspondence via email – sales@carbolicsoap.com. all orders at the moment are being processed by 7am, these are despatched the same day (mon-fri). we have not had any updates from royal mail about their service but we can only assume that it may make some deliveries late, please be patient. many thanks all our packaging is recyclable, fsc accredited and biodegradable we use shredded paper or old newspapers – not bubble wrap to pack your order our postage labels are printed on paper labels and attached directly to your wrapped order all our carbolic soaps are ‘naked’ unwrapped we sometimes re-use old boxes/packaging to send your orders out carbolic household soap – traditional 450g (1lb) block. we only have limited stock. please be considerate. any large orders – over 4 bars will be cancelled. demand is high and we do not want to disappoint. single block of carbolic household soap, 450g (1lb approx) £3.99 view products carbolic household soap – traditional 200g £2.99 read more carbolic household soap single 70g bar £1.99 read more carbolic household soap – traditional 900g (2lb) block. £5.99 read more coughs and sneezes spreads diseases £4.99 add to cart lifebuoy ‘saves life’ £4.99 add to cart keep calm and carry on £4.99 add to cart searchsearch follow us instagram twitter facebook terms & conditions proudly powered by wordpress