skip to main contentzybwfsydfzabfysbstzybwuybvqtd close search the chronicle home news faculty teaching students administration leadership & governance campus spaces technology people gazette finance government research admissions & student aid athletics publishing community colleges graduate students more opinion the chronicle review commentary letters data almanac of higher education faculty salaries chronicle intelligence idea lab focus collections advice store jobs for employers for job seekers special reports current issue archives forums video advertise log in sections subscribe today subscribe today for premium access subscribe log in news opinion advice store jobs subscribe today for premium access sections search the chronicle featured: the latest on the coronavirus and higher ed supporting students through a stressful transition advertisement pandemic highlights inequities for many graduate students by megan zahneis it’s disrupted their research and funding, muddied the job-market waters, and complicated questions about their status at their institution. if state budgets collapse, what will happen to public colleges? premium colleges scramble to support students who need campus jobs 5 lessons from campuses that closed after natural disasters premium opinion: after coronavirus, the deluge premium what’s in congress’s vast stimulus bill for higher ed coronavirus hits campus: complete coverage latest news ritual, rhythm, community: everything higher ed does best, the coronavirus attacks premium administration as covid-19 erases line between work and home, professors learn to teach remotely while watching their kids faculty ‘do no harm’: the coronavirus crisis calls for compassion, say faculty members sharing advice advice colleges that closed dorms amid pandemic are refunding students’ money, right? not everywhere premium finance u. of rochester will pay $9.4 million to settle long-running sexual-harassment battle premium administration how to help struggling students succeed online teaching jobs on chroniclevitae search 21,007 opportunities browse by position type faculty & research • administrative • executive search by keyword search top jobs department for business, energy & industrial stratagy department for business, energy and industrial strategy vice-dean and professor, division of educational leadership & innovation arizona state university dean of libraries texas tech university arts workshop instructor, division of arts and humanities, nyu abu dhabi new york university abu dhabi assistant of associate dean the university of arkansas for medical sciences assistant professor of counseling psychology - department of educational studies purdue university dean of math, science and health careers community college of philadelphia associate dean, tseng college (8665) california state university, northridge professor and chair of obstetrics and gynecology suny downstate health sciences university clinical/counseling psychologist university of georgia/university health center assistant/associate professor of instructional technology and learning, design, and technology university of tennessee executive director of the u.s.-colombia fulbright commission the fulbright program professor & program chair, petroleum engineering texas a&m university at qatar for employerschroniclevitae connects career-minded faculty and administrators with the best jobs in higher education.post a job advertisement search our advice finder search our new advice finder want to advance your career? improve your institution? our academic experts have guidance for you, and we’ve made it easy to find. get help with our comprehensive guides these comprehensive a to z guides will teach you how to tackle common problems and perform important tasks in your classroom and your career. our expert writers walk you through everything you need to know, and provide links to research and additional resources. administration 101 in this series, david d. perlmutter writes about pursuing a career in academic administration and about surviving and thriving as a leader. leadership & governance one state previews higher ed’s future culture wars premium by jack stripling march 17, 2020 a debacle over “hawaiian day” gave conservative lawmakers leverage to pass a politically charged “intellectual-diversity bill.” they were just getting started. more news virginia’s governor urges liberty u. to tell students to stay home after a spike in the state’s covid-19 cases, gov. ralph s. northam strongly urged jerry falwell jr., the university’s president, to reconsider asking students to return after spring break. coronavirus upends college giving days as institutions pivot to raise money for students’ basic needs the events, which have become popular ways to recruit new donors, are taking a new direction amid the pandemic. how is covid-19 changing prospective students’ plans? here’s an early look many students are rethinking their intentions to enroll at a four-year college this fall, according to a new survey. most still planning to do so aren’t expecting to end up at their first choice. commentary the legal problem with diversity statements premium what ‘middle’ administrators can do to help in the coronavirus crisis it’s time to stop calculating graduation rates premium why more professors should be generalists premium the chronicle review now is not the time to assess online learning premium by thomas j. tobin good online teaching requires training, prep, and support. the current crisis provides none of that. will coronavirus close your college for good? premium by david wescott for 20 percent of institutions, this may be an existential moment, says robert zemsky. advertisement graduate students uc strike could have lasting impact on higher ed premium by vimal patel march 05, 2020 the chancellor says it’s about protecting undergraduate education, but strikers argue it’s about who has access in the first place. advice why you should ignore all that coronavirus-inspired productivity pressure by aisha s. ahmad in the early weeks of a global catastrophe like covid-19, it’s best to accept that the world has changed and reimagine yourself and your work within it. graduate school prepared me to self-quarantine by ariel sophia bardi you learned a lot about social distancing when you wrote a dissertation. that experience can help you get through this pandemic crisis. how to recover the joy of teaching after an online pivot by flower darby it’s only natural to feel a letdown once the initial frenzy of moving courses into a virtual classroom passes. experience in campus administration comes at a cost by cary aaron reed why search committees and boards should give embattled ex-presidents a second look, instead of running from them. advertisement special reports faculty and staff salaries at more than 4,700 colleges browse the data by state, sector, and carnegie classification, and break out salaries by institution, rank, and gender. small changes in teaching: the first 5 minutes of class four quick ways to shift students’ attention from life’s distractions to your course content. the new cheating economy premium business is booming right under colleges’ noses. it’s not just papers and assignments anymore. now it’s the whole course. from the chronicle store the recession-proof college the looming enrollment crisis the right mix of academic programs the innovation imperative subscribe today subscribe today twitter facebook log in get newsletters events about the chronicle advertise hiring solutions contact us help site map privacy policy user agreement © 2020 the chronicle of higher education 1255 23rd street, n.w. washington, d.c. 20037 × ... ×