got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... the kardashian family is taking social distancing very seriously amid the coronavirus outbreak home › kuwtk › the kardashian family is taking social distancing very seriously amid the coronavirus outbreak it’s always nice to see a famous family doing the right thing and role modeling good behavior in a time like this! the kardashian clan is isolated, quarantined, and hidden away during this month’s ongoing coronavirus pandemic scare — and from the looks of it, they’ll do whatever is right, for as long as it takes, before coming together as one big happy family again! related: meghan markle and prince harry post uplifting coronavirus message kim kardashian west confirmed as much in a wednesday evening instagram post, in which she shared an old pic of herself and younger sis khloé kardashian alongside a very important caption public service announcement (below): “i was organizing my photos in my phone and found this and miss my sisters but we are all social distancing and staying away from each other all separately self quarantined. it’s hard but we have to do this for our safety and for everyone else’s. please do not ignore the severity of the warnings to stay inside to stop the spread of this virus. we will all get through this! #togetherapart” as you can see from the pic, in which kim and khlo are getting prepped pre-shoot by a glam squad at some point in the past, it’s clear how connected and bonded these close-knit sisters are: view this post on instagram i was organizing my photos in my phone and found this and miss my sisters but we are all social distancing and staying away from each other all separately self quarantined. it’s hard but we have to do this for our safety and for everyone else’s. please do not ignore the severity of the warnings to stay inside to stop the spread of this virus. we will all get through this! #togetherapart a post shared by kim kardashian west (@kimkardashian) on mar 18, 2020 at 7:41pm pdt and yet it’s still so smart for them to take the government’s warnings seriously, and distance themselves from each other and other people during this time. hopefully, by doing enough of that, we’ll all be able to limit exposure and cut down on the potential spread of the disease. good on you for leading the way here, kim, and you’re right — we will all get through this! rob does his part! in addition to the girls keeping their distance from each other, fellow reality star and only-brother rob kardashian has postponed his birthday party. the star, who turned 33 on tuesday, was all set to celebrate with family and friends, but sources reveal that the covid-19 outbreak has him concerned about gathering so many people together in one place. and rightfully so! related: here’s the deal with that dumb oprah winfrey coronavirus hoax… the insider spoke to people about the single dad’s decision to postpone things, saying: “rob’s birthday celebration is postponed. they are all taking the social-distancing very seriously. no one in the family is socializing right now and everyone is just hanging out at their separate houses.” good decision! kylie’s been ready for this… who said a little social distance had to be a difficult thing?! while we are nearing the throes of cabin fever over here, kylie jenner is living her best life at home. as the notorious homebody herself is quick to point out, pregnancy was the perfect training ground for an extended stay stuck at home! related: chrissy teigen defends vanessa hudgens over coronavirus comments the 22-year-old took to her ig stories this week to discuss the self-quarantine, at one point sharing this set of sensible, smart precautions and encouragements, while also teasing the last time she self-isolated was during her pregnancy (below): kylie reminded everybody once again how important it is to keep your distance — just plain good advice at this time! / (c) kylie jenner/instagram and, as it turns out, pregnancy prepared her perfectly to handle the virus! how about that?! nothin’ like laying low at home! / (c) kylie jenner/instagram well done, kylie! and well done to the entire kardashian fam! kendall jenner waaaas spotted out on a joyride wednesday with pal fai khadra and another friend, but she was keeping distance from others and keeping it to a gathering of under 10. seriously, this is what role modeling and conscientious, common sense behavior is all about. loves it!!! hbu, perezcious readers?? [image via wenn/avalon] related posts kim kardashian says she loves tristan thompson ‘like a brother’ after they ‘totally bonded’ with each other… kylie jenner recalls ‘bleeding from the mouth’ during 2019 hospitalization: ‘sickest i’ve ever been’ the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on kuwtk! dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 19, 2020 8:04am pdt share this categories chicago west controversy coronavirus disick babies dream kardashian family kanye west kendall jenner khloe kardashian kim kardashian kourtney kardashian kris jenner kuwtk kylie jenner north west parenting party poppin' perezcious parenting perezitos psalm west reality tv rob kardashian saint west sick social issues tv news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy