home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink latest articles prevnext the journey of a fair-trade coffee bean leyla preston thu 27th sep 2018 0shares share tweet pin if we brits are married to our cups of tea, then coffee is our secret love affair. recent figures revealed by the british coffee association (bsa) paint britain less as a nation of tea-drinkers and more as coffee connoisseurs, with our coffee consumption increasing from 70 million cups a day in 2008 to 95 million cups a day in 2018. obviously coffee beans don’t grow in the uk, and it took a lot of manpower to get you your morning pick-me-up! and, if you’re a fan of drinking fair trade coffee, that journey is more wonderful and varied. you see, the journey of a coffee bean depends on which farm it came from, the grower of the bean, and how it was processed. obviously, a large-scale coffee plantation will operate a lot differently from a simpler (and much smaller) fair trade coffee farm. perhaps you know about the ethics surrounding fair trade coffee, the issues of pay and the treatment of workers, but it does go far beyond that. the number of workers, the use of waste water, and the difference in fair trade coffee production is not to be understated. the process is eco-friendlier and more worker friendly! as an example, cipac’s fair trade honey and coffee co-operative in guatemala has more than 140 members working for them. it may be a remote area, but it’s a fantastic place to grow coffee all the same. numerous farmers here are performing a trade inherited from many family generations. there are a lot for the cipac’s farmers to do before the beans are ready to be made into the delicious coffee that we know and love. so, what exactly happens on the journey from bush to mug? let’s follow some of cipac’s fair trade coffee growers to find out… table of contents harvesting coffee beans the de-pulping process cleaning the cherries drying each coffee bean transporting the beans transforming the beans free resource library! harvesting coffee beans winter is typically coffee-harvesting season for many farmers. and, on family-owned farms, the whole family might get involved. coffee ripens at a slightly different time within this period, depending on the climate, the altitude, the type of soil and the variety of coffee. some farmers even live in areas with their own microclimate, which means that the coffee they produce has its own and quality flavour. throughout the season, the same coffee plant can be harvested up to two or three times over. this is because only the ripe cherries are hand-plucked from the bush to guarantee a high-quality coffee. on large coffee farms, the harvesters must travel up steep hills and down into valleys to collect the cherries in a basket — which can be exhausting. the de-pulping process once the coffee has been harvested, it is moved on to the farmers, which involves the harvesters often having to travel up and down hills and across rickety bridges to reach the end destination where the cherries are de-pulped within 24 hours. while large-scale plantations use heavy machinery to quickly take off the coffee-cherry skins, farmers at cipac either use a small electric de-pulping machine (where the cherries are poured in the top and emerge de-pulped from the bottom) or they use their own energy. the coffee beans are closely inspected as they are poured into the machine, and any beans that don’t look quite ripe enough or are too ripe are taken out. cleaning the cherries once the coffee cherries are de-pulped, they are submerged in unique water pools for a full day, to clean them and remove any remaining layers. some beans will float in the water and these beans are always removed. after washing, the leftover water will contain some toxic elements that means it can’t just be thrown onto the plants in their backyard. but farmers at cipac know what to do – they re-use the dirty water and skins to make an eco-friendly compost to use around their coffee plants. drying each coffee bean after cleaning, the beans are laid out to allow the sun to dry them naturally. the farmer chooses an area that’s wide, flat, and clean, and spreads the beans out with a rake. they turn the beans with this rake while the sun shines, and then they hurry to cover them with a huge sheet if there is a hint of rain or moisture in the air. they also cover the beans every night to keep the dew away. this process can take several days – or much longer if there’s rain. transporting the beans once the coffee has dried, the parchment beans are formed. the farmers take the sacks of parchment beans to the nearest road, where they’ll be a collected by a van, sent by the coffee co-operative. farmers in the most remote areas must make their way along dangerous winding mountain paths, where they encounter huge cliff drops. can you imagine having to walk along a cliff-edge while carrying a 30kg bag of coffee beans? if there are no co-operatives to sell their products to, farmers often must make longer, more dangerous journeys to find a trader. once the beans reach the co-operative storage site safely, they are then weighed, checked for quality, and then stored. transforming the beans once the parchment beans arrive at a fair-trade cooperative, they are then turned into green beans. this is the most important quality milestone yet, and involves the beans being judged by their weight and appearance, to make sure they are of the best quality. finally, the beans are ‘polished’, which removes the last layer of skin covering the coffee beans. the beans are then sampled by buyers for quality in a process known as ‘coffee cupping’, which involves them slurping coffee to accurately taste all the subtle flavours of the coffee, especially for the special varieties grown in areas with their own microclimates. these samples are sent to the co-operative, so they can easily vouch for the quality of the coffee to buyers. finally, the finished beans are bagged and sold to an exporter. cipac sells the coffee beans to cafesca, a fair-trade operator based in mexico. from there, some of the beans are sent to another mexican fair-trade operator, descamex, who are the only facility in the world to use the mountain water method to produce decaf coffee. descamex send the decaffeinated beans back to cafesca, who transform all the coffee beans into instant coffee and instant decaf. once the finished coffee is sealed in jars, they’re loaded onto a container, then onto a ship, and then transported to the uk to be sold by retailers such as traidcraft. the journey has now reached its conclusion and it’s clear to see that coffee beans go on quite the adventure before making it into your mug. and while the huge coffee plantations use lots of workers and modern equipment, the fair-trade farmers at cipac like to keep it simple. family-run farms, hand-picking only the ripest cherries, and drying the beans naturally under the heat of the sun. there are fewer chemicals, and therefore more room for character. *collaborative feature post* free resource library! subscribe now and receive your exclusive password to access a whole library of extra content! checklists, printables, guides - it's all yours when you subscribe! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription and get your top secret password to access your free resource library! there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. i want those emails! we won't send you spam. unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:beveragedrinkeconomy related posts what do you really need for your new bab... why families should consider buying an e... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok