the guardian securedrop share stories with us securely and confidentially if used as directed, the guardian securedrop service allows you to share files with the guardian confident of complete anonymity. encrypting the contents of an email using public key cryptographic methods is a good way to avoid compromising the content. while the platform itself uses tor hidden services to support anonymity, it is advisable to be careful where you access it from. you should avoid using the platform on small networks where use of tor may be monitored or restricted, or in public places where your screen may be viewed by cctv. we recommend that you don't jump straight from this landing page to the securedrop site, especially on business networks that may be monitored. best practice would be to make a note of the tor url (see below) and then to upload your content from a different machine at a later time. the guardian securedrop service is available. how to access the guardian's securedrop service download and install software to access the tor network: https://www.torproject.org. for security reasons, we advise you, especially if you are uploading documents, not to use your home or work network, but instead to use a public wi-fi network in an area where your screen is not visible to security cameras. alternately, you can start up your computer from a usb key loaded with the tails secure operating system, which is available at https://tails.boum.org and includes the tor web browser. once you launch the tor browser, copy and paste the url 33y6fjyhs3phzfjj.onion into the tor address bar. when the page loads, you will find further instructions on how to submit files and messages to the guardian. you will be assigned a randomly generated and unique code phrase. if a writer or editor at the guardian wants to contact you about the information you have submitted, they will leave a message for you in securedrop. the messages can only be accessed using your code name. these messages are the only way we will be able to reach you. the securedrop software is an open source project sponsored by the freedom of the press foundation. the software has been through thorough independent security reviews to ensure that it meets stringent confidentiality and anti-leakage requirements. the platform has been built and commissioned with the latest fixes for the heartbleed ssl vulnerability. the guardian pgp keys if securedrop is unavailable or tor is blocked for you, there is a secure alternative for confidential messaging. create a dummy email account and use a pgp email plugin or client to send an encrypted email using your intended guardian contact pgp public key. for other ways to contact the guardian see contact the guardian securely. list of pgp keys terms and conditions if you are using the tor browser you should ensure that there is no keylogging malware on your pc, mac or tablet. the tails live operating system may be preferable. any content uploaded to the platform will be treated in the utmost confidentiality by us to protect your anonymity unless you indicate you wish to waive it. uploading of content to the platform is no guarantee that an article will be published referencing that data. guardian editorial policy will be the ultimate arbiter of what is used. when accessing this landing page we will not set cookies, fingerprint your browser/machine or display third party content. when accessing the guardian securedrop platform we will not log your ip address, we will not set cookies, fingerprint your browser/machine or display third party content. do not abuse the platform by uploading pornographic or obscene imagery. use of the guardian securedrop platform is at the user's own risk. © 2019 guardian news and media limited or its affiliated companies. all rights reserved.