menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: accessories, style & grooming jeremy anderberg • january 20, 2020 last updated: january 26, 2020 how to clean a baseball cap after a couple years of heavy use, my filthy baseball caps have been known to simply find their way to the trash rather than be washed. i’d tried the folk-lore-ish top-rack-of-the-dishwasher route, but it had never yielded great results for me. the hats came out misshapen, seemingly discolored, and only partially cleaned. but i did some digging, and discovered a far better, and gentler, methodology for cleaning the ol’ ballcap that will refresh it, brighten it, and add years to its life. and best of all, it’s largely hands-off. luckily for you readers, i had a few very gross hats to do some testing on. let’s dive in. general hat-washing tips don’t put caps into the laundry — either the washer or dryer. a high-efficiency washer that doesn’t have a center agitating column can be okay, but even then it has to be cool water on the gentlest cycle, and you also have to be concerned about other clothes in the load squishing the hat’s form. dryers are too hot, and the tumbling isn’t good for the shape. better to just avoid the laundry machines altogether. don’t use any products with bleach in them; you want your ballcap colors to stay nice and bright for years to come. dispelling the dishwasher myth. you’ve probably heard you can throw caps in the dishwasher on the top rack. don’t do that. dishwasher detergents often include bleach, and the appliance usually runs at high heat (both for washing and drying), which can damage the hat as well. hand-washing is really the best method to retain both the color and shape of the hat. the best way to wash a baseball cap 1. fill a clean sink or bucket with warm water. err on the side of cool versus hot. 2. as it’s filling, add a tablespoon of laundry detergent or oxiclean. dish soap can do in a pinch, but detergent, or a dedicated stain-fighting treatment like oxiclean, is stronger and works harder at getting the stains out of the hat’s fibers. shampooing the bill of the ballcap. 3. spot-clean the hat first, as needed. if there are areas that are especially problematic, spot-clean them with a dab of cleaning product right on the hat. after first dipping the hat in the water of your bucket or sink, use a toothbrush or other small scrubber to rub the cleaner into the fabric. i saw a tip to use shampoo on sweat stains; i tried it on one of my caps and the results were pretty spectacular. the bill was clean of sweat stains, while the back (where i didn’t use any shampoo), remained pretty gross after cleaning: one note here: be especially careful around threaded stitching. if you’re too vigorous, the stitching can become misplaced, and the artwork marred. 4. let the hat soak for up to a couple hours. after you’ve spot-washed, let the hat soak in the soapy water-filled bucket or sink you’ve filled for up to a couple hours, though i found that even just 20-30 minutes will get the job done. about halfway through soaking, take a look at the cap and see how the stains are looking. although the wetted fabric will hide some staining, they’ll still show through if they’re bad. using your small scrubber, again spot wash those persistent problem areas, and again, be careful around stitched patterns and logos. 5. rinse all the soap off with warm water. give the hat a good rinse before letting it dry. 6. pat down with a towel to get rid of excess moisture. the hat will obviously be very wet when you remove it from the water; let some of the excess drip off, then pat dry with a towel as much as you can while retaining the shape of the hat, and being gentle with logos. your goal here is simply to remove the excess so that it can dry on a counter without dripping water all over. no towel underneath = wet countertop. 7. always air dry on some sort of container. you want to find a way to dry the hat so it’s not just crumpled on the counter. find a coffee jar, a canister, a balled-up towel, or perhaps any mannequin heads you have lying around to set it on. this will ensure the hat’s shape stays true and doesn’t crinkle up. throw a towel under the container too; no matter how much patting you do, i’ve found there will always be some drippage. if you want to speed things up, use a small fan to blow air over it, or a hair dryer on the low setting. tips for cleaning wool hats wool hats are a bit more delicate than your standard cotton or mesh caps. the discontinued aom cap (if you have one, keep it, it’s now a vintage collector’s item!), for instance, is wool, and needs just a little more tlc to clean. rather than standard detergent or cleaning product, find something that’s made specifically for wool, and soak it as directed above. be sure to be especially gentle when doing any scrubbing; if you’re too harsh, the wool can get matted and come to resemble felt. you don’t want that. and finally, when drying the hat, pat it dry to remove excess moisture, then consider actually wearing it to dry the rest of the way. it will probably be a little uncomfortable, but the shape will conform exactly to your head rather than to some coffee bean container. wool hats are notorious for losing their shape after washing, so be especially careful. tips for cleaning older hats if your hat is 20+ years old, there’s a decent chance it’s made with different, less-durable materials than today’s hats, both in the bill and the cap. believe it or not, bills used to be made from cardboard rather than the more forgiving plastics of today. the first thing to do when cleaning an old cap is to give it a color test. the vast majority of today’s hats are colorfast, meaning they have some blend that helps them retain color upon washing. old caps don’t always have this, though. to test, rub a small amount of cleaner on the underside of the bill with a rag. if the rag comes away with some color, you’ll have to use water only to clean the cap, and simply do the best you can. if the rag comes away clean, you’re clear to use detergent. as for actual washing, spot-clean only, especially if you’re unsure of the bill material. soaking an old cardboard bill in water will obviously ruin it. and old hats in general are just less durable than today’s. use a small scrubber, and clean up any problem areas by hand. the verdict washed caps to the right and left; unwashed “control” cap in the middle. my hats came out much cleaner after using this hand-washing method. i did some testing of different methods, including not washing the middle black and white cap. the stains are still visible on the bill, and the white isn’t as white as the newly-cleaned “playoffs” baseball cap to its left. the oxiclean really brightened up the colors on that one. you’ll also notice on that playoffs cap that the stains on the bill are almost completely gone. they’re still faintly visible, but it’s way better than before. the gray cap on the right is also much better, although as you saw above, the back is still kinda gross because i didn’t spot-clean it. lesson: spot-cleaning is a must for especially problematic areas. if your favorite baseball cap is grimy from a few too many summertime sweats, give it a good hand-washing and you’ll be able to take it into plenty of extra innings. related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// beard grooming 101: the lowdown on products and routine 10 things your father should have taught you about style how to find the natural part in your hair if/how to wear a suit without a tie view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy