video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map the ups store transform your life today. be your own boss. business type franchise startup costs $161,657 - $470,031 can be operated from home yes financing available yes can be run part-time yes be in business for yourself, not by yourself first-hand feedback from our franchise owners throughout the country has revealed that opening a franchise with the ups store was one of their most rewarding business decisions. owning a franchise with an industry leading brand like the ups store offers aspiring entrepreneurs the opportunity to chase their dreams of small-business ownership and management with the trusted support of an experienced national brand behind you every step of the way. opening a franchise allows you to enjoy the freedom and flexibility of making your own business decisions and being your own boss, while working towards your goals of personal and financial independence and your own pace. having helped thousands of first-time business owners just like you during our 35+ years of experience in the franchise industry, and with over 4,800 locations across the u.s., the ups store is your trusted source for everything you need to know about owning a franchise. count on the superior support and training of the ups store to get you started towards opening a franchise and channeling your dreams of entrepreneurship like never before! with the ups store you’re in business for yourself, not by yourself – and we’re here to help every step of the way. take advantage of our exciting franchise opportunities by learning more about owning a franchise with the ups store, today! franchise benefits enjoy the freedom of making your own business decisions. with your own the ups store, you are backed by a proven franchise model - more than 4,800 locations across the u.s. the ups store franchise benefits include: brand strength – the ups store is recognized as a top retail brand by the business journals’ american brand excellence awards and has been ranked #1 in the business services industry for 30 consecutive years by entrepreneur magazine’s franchise 500. national advertising and marketing - our national advertising campaigns build brand awareness while regional efforts and local store marketing build excitement in your neighborhood. world-class training – as part of our training program, new franchisees spend a total of ten days at the ups store university at our corporate campus in san diego. dedicated support and tools – the ups store is committed to providing you the tools and support to operate and grow your business. corporate retail solutions – we work with major ups customers and other national brands to bring shipping and printing business to our franchise locations. multi-unit opportunities - approximately 52% of our franchisee network owns more than one center. for qualified franchisees, we may offer reduced franchise fees and specialized training to help you expand. featured markets as an aspiring entrepreneur, choosing the franchise that fits your unique personality and professional goals are a tough task. afterwards, choosing the right location for your franchise can be equally challenging. with the ups store, you're confidently backed by a dedicated support staff that works to identify the best franchise opportunities at the desired location for you. company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account