stitcher for podcasts get the app open app error - there was an error with your download request. try again later. close get the stitcher app take your podcasts on-the-go! download the free app get the stitcher app send a link to your phone to take your podcasts on the go. we sent you a link did you get it? retry close bummer! you're not a stitcher premium subscriber yet. learn more start free trial $4.99/month after free trial get the app learn more premium top shows listen shows see more shows and episodes sign in sign up help the wellness mama podcast play play this show add to playlist shareshare this show facebook tweet linkedin cancel about this show show info: the wellness mama podcast is a weekly series covering the topics of holistic health, real food, stress, sleep, fitness, toxins, natural living, diy, parenting, motherhood, and other health tips to give you actionable solutions to improve your family’s life! brought to you by katie wells of wellnessmama.com.read more » the wellness mama podcast is a weekly series covering the topics of holistic health, real food, stress, sleep, fitness, toxins, natural living, diy, parenting, motherhood, and other health tips to give you actionable solutions to improve your family’s life! brought to you by katie wells of wellnessmama.com. read less @wellnessmama /wellnessmama website listen whenever ios android web player related shows most recent episode play save episode 325: hashimoto’s update: how i got to remission & what i do to maintain 1 day ago · 49 minutes today i’m going to give you all an update on my decade-long journey with hashimoto’s thyroiditis, one of the reasons i got into health and started a blog and a podcast. i’ll revisit from beginning to end all of the steps i tried, what worked and what didn’t work, and where i currently am with my health.i get quite a few questions about this, especially when i mention it being in remission. before we start, i have to say: if i’ve learned anything through this whole process, it is just how personalized and individualized health is, especially when it comes to autoimmune disease. what worked for me, ultimately, was trying a lot of different things and tracking the results along the way.i hope some of you can benefit from some of the things i’ve tried!episode highlights: my hashimoto’s updatea recipe for autoimmune disease (so you don’t follow it like i did)why i use a bathtub analogy for describing healththe excuses i kept telling myself (they all had to do with being a mom)why thyroid testing didn’t help… at firsthow i ended up taking too much iodine trying to correct itthe reason broccoli sprouts are always on my counterdoctors and testing i tried… and what finally workedwhat i’m doing now that’s made all the differenceand more!resources we mention309: how i overcame trauma (and lost 50 pounds)heads up healthoura ringarticle by chris kresser: iodine for healthdr. alan christiansonsteady mdhow to grow broccoli sproutssulforaphanecar.o.l bike (use code wellnessmama for $150 off)the paleo momthe paleo way – autoimmune protocoldr. terry wahls mdmore from wellness mama309: how i overcame trauma (and lost 50 pounds)242: fighting thyroid disease with food & recipes for thyroid health from dr. izabella wentz118: an at-home approach to balancing thyroid hormones with mccall mcpherson43: how to get a correct thyroid diagnosishow to boost thyroid function naturallywhen iodine might be bad for your thyroidhow i reduced my cortisol levels naturally with food & lightdid you enjoy this episode? please drop a comment below or leave a review on itunes to let us know. we value knowing what you think and this helps other moms find the podcast as well. read transcriptchild: welcome to my mommy’s podcast.this episode is sponsored by four sigmatic, the reason i’m on shrooms (the legal kind) every day. they make a wide variety of superfood mushroom infused products from coffees and teas to elixirs and even chocolate that is infused with ten mushrooms! i have a shelf in my pantry just for four sigmatic products and keep pretty much all of them on hand. some current favorites… my kids love the reishi infused cocoa, and i love that it helps them sleep! i also really enjoy their 10 mushroom blend which contains all of my favorites like chaga, cordyceps, reishi and even meshima. i add this to coffee, tea, or smoothies to get a daily dose of shrooms. as a listener of this podcast, you can save 15% by going to foursigmatic.com/wellnes... read more » today i’m going to give you all an update on my decade-long journey with hashimoto’s thyroiditis, one of the reasons i got into health and started a blog and a podcast. i’ll revisit from beginning to end all of the steps i tried, what worked and what didn’t work, and where i currently am with my health.i get quite a few questions about this, especially when i mention it being in remission. before we start, i have to say: if i’ve learned anything through this whole process, it is just how personalized and individualized health is, especially when it comes to autoimmune disease. what worked for me, ultimately, was trying a lot of different things and tracking the results along the way.i hope some of you can benefit from some of the things i’ve tried!episode highlights: my hashimoto’s updatea recipe for autoimmune disease (so you don’t follow it like i did)why i use a bathtub analogy for describing healththe excuses i kept telling myself (they all had to do with being a mom)why thyroid testing didn’t help… at firsthow i ended up taking too much iodine trying to correct itthe reason broccoli sprouts are always on my counterdoctors and testing i tried… and what finally workedwhat i’m doing now that’s made all the differenceand more!resources we mention309: how i overcame trauma (and lost 50 pounds)heads up healthoura ringarticle by chris kresser: iodine for healthdr. alan christiansonsteady mdhow to grow broccoli sproutssulforaphanecar.o.l bike (use code wellnessmama for $150 off)the paleo momthe paleo way – autoimmune protocoldr. terry wahls mdmore from wellness mama309: how i overcame trauma (and lost 50 pounds)242: fighting thyroid disease with food & recipes for thyroid health from dr. izabella wentz118: an at-home approach to balancing thyroid hormones with mccall mcpherson43: how to get a correct thyroid diagnosishow to boost thyroid function naturallywhen iodine might be bad for your thyroidhow i reduced my cortisol levels naturally with food & lightdid you enjoy this episode? please drop a comment below or leave a review on itunes to let us know. we value knowing what you think and this helps other moms find the podcast as well. read transcriptchild: welcome to my mommy’s podcast.this episode is sponsored by four sigmatic, the reason i’m on shrooms (the legal kind) every day. they make a wide variety of superfood mushroom infused products from coffees and teas to elixirs and even chocolate that is infused with ten mushrooms! i have a shelf in my pantry just for four sigmatic products and keep pretty much all of them on hand. some current favorites… my kids love the reishi infused cocoa, and i love that it helps them sleep! i also really enjoy their 10 mushroom blend which contains all of my favorites like chaga, cordyceps, reishi and even meshima. i add this to coffee, tea, or smoothies to get a daily dose of shrooms. as a listener of this podcast, you can save 15% by going to foursigmatic.com/wellnes...read less embed episodes of this show 324: increasing immunity naturally & skincare from the inside out with four sigmatic 46 minutes | · 4 days ago play play this show 323: how to have a genius life using four key pillars of health with max lugavere 67 minutes | · mar 19 play play this show 322: coronavirus & covid-19: a common-sense approach with pediatrician dr. elisa song 64 minutes | · mar 16 play play this show 321: detoxification, mitochondrial health, biophysics, and figuring out your optimal with caleb jennings 58 minutes | · mar 12 play play this show load more episodes bvseo_sdk, p_sdk, 3.2.0 cloud, getreviews, 938.54ms reviews, product bvseo-msg: error - failed to connect to 2600:9000:20aa:fa00:2:540:f780:93a1: network is unreachable; http status code of 0 was returned; the easiest way to listen to podcasts on your iphone, ipad, android, pc, smart speaker — and even in your car. for free. bonus and ad-free content available with stitcher premium. get the free app now available for iphone, ipad, android and alexa © stitcher 2019, all content is copyright of its owners. this site is protected by recaptcha and the google privacy policy and terms of service apply podcasts stitcher originals the stitcher list news technology business news sports storytelling partners partner signup partner portal partner faq advertisers about download podswag gifting midroll newsroom stitcher blog careers faqs contact privacy do not sell my info terms of use sitemap follow us