related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag nature goes for bingo across the u.s. this week with every kind of bad weather imaginable dennis mersereau · 11/16/15 05:05pm the pacific ocean gifted us with a whale of a storm that will make this week a mess for just about everybody. the approaching disturbance will trigger dangerous thunderstorms in the south, another blizzard in colorado, flooding rains, and usher forth an abrupt end to the unusually warm air that’s bathed us for so long. five important things everyone should know to survive the next weather disaster dennis mersereau · 11/13/15 03:27pm humans suck at preparing for disasters. society barely made it through the scourge of twitter changing stars to hearts. when the sky darkens, thunder rumbles, or snow starts falling, many people simply fall to pieces. these five tips will help you get through the next big storm that’s bad enough to earn its own scary name. dennis mersereau · 11/12/15 05:05pm the picture perfect storm that’s raked the center of the country over the past two days caused 135 reports of damaging thunderstorm winds and 12 reports of tornadoes on wednesday. the storm also generated some pretty strong winds as it swirled through the great lakes, with a 55 mph gust in buffalo, 49 mph gust at chicago o’hare, and a 45 mph gust in detroit, leading to some wind damage and coastal flooding. the weather will slowly calm down as the storm lifts north into canada. tornadoes reported as fall severe weather outbreak rolls across midwest dennis mersereau · 11/11/15 05:25pm the novemberesque storm that’s swirling through the center of the united states is unfolding just as forecasters expected, with heavy snow in colorado last night giving way to severe thunderstorms in the midwest. the severe weather outbreak continues this evening, with several tornadoes reported and more possible as the line moves east through the evening hours. dennis mersereau · 11/10/15 05:14pm dr. david atlas, one of the meteorologists who led the development of weather radar after world war ii, passed away on tuesday at the age of 91. his decades of research laid the foundation for the weather radars—and many of their benefits—we take for granted today. a blizzard and tornadoes are possible tomorrow thanks to a big, classic november storm dennis mersereau · 11/10/15 04:11pm a classic fall storm—just like the ones you used to know—promises to put a big pause on our septemberest november ever. this picture-perfect low pressure system will bring blizzard conditions to colorado, severe thunderstorms with tornadoes to the midwest, and ripping winds from the plains to the great lakes. yemen saw more hurricane-strength storms last week than florida has seen in the past ten years dennis mersereau · 11/09/15 04:26pm two hurricane-strength tropical cyclones have made landfall in yemen in the past week. last tuesday, cyclone chapala made landfall in mainland yemen, the first such landfall on record. on sunday, cyclone megh made landfall on the yemeni island of socotra as the equivalent of a category three hurricane. that is not normal. dennis mersereau · 11/08/15 10:28pm tropical depression twelve formed near the bahamas on sunday evening, likely to become tropical storm kate on monday before it swiftly jets out to sea and away from the united states. this will probably finish off the strange 2015 atlantic hurricane season, but tropical systems can and have formed as late as december. the incredible process that lets the atmosphere dump an ocean of rain in a few hours dennis mersereau · 11/06/15 05:12pm last week, austin, texas, and surrounding communities found themselves flooded after a relentless thunderstorm dropped more than a foot of rain in just a few hours. this astounding rainfall event was the result of a phenomenon known as “training,” and as austin saw, training can lead to devastating results. happy november! a line of severe thunderstorms is sweeping through the central u.s. dennis mersereau · 11/05/15 04:18pm the unusual march-like temperatures bathing much of the country this week are coming with a nasty side effect: march-like thunderstorms. a small but feisty severe weather outbreak is brewing in the center of the country right now, with damaging winds, large hail, and even a few tornadoes possible. watch a storm chaser ride out a category five hurricane as it tears apart his hotel dennis mersereau · 11/04/15 03:34pm veteran hurricane chaser josh morgerman just published his incredible firsthand account of hurricane patricia’s landfall on the west coast of mexico late last month. patricia, the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded, came ashore as a category five with catastrophic winds of 165 mph. cyclone chapala ravages yemeni coast, residents unlikely to see meaningful help dennis mersereau · 11/03/15 04:16pm cyclone chapala made a historic landfall along the coast of yemen early on tuesday, becoming the first hurricane-strength storm to make landfall there since reliable records began. the cyclone came ashore near al mukalla, an al qaeda-controlled city that’s home to more than 100,000 people. november decides to begin with a "heat" wave, everyone's pretty much okay with it dennis mersereau · 11/02/15 04:51pm good news! it’s going to be nice and warm this week for just about everyone who should shiver come november. i mean, since we just had to set the clocks back in some dumb ritual we perform simply because it’s a dumb ritual, we should at least get something nice in return, right? the weather is about to make your world much louder (and more annoying) dennis mersereau · 11/02/15 08:30am fall is getting off to a slow start this year. it gets cool for a couple of days, then it warms right back up (not that that’s a bad thing!). as the cool days outnumber the warm, though, you’ll begin to notice a lot more noise at night and in the morning, and it’s all thanks to the weather. powerful cyclone chapala could make historic landfall in yemen next week dennis mersereau · 10/30/15 01:40pm 2015 is a year that’s determined to break every record possible. just a week after we saw the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded, we’ve got one of the strongest cyclones ever recorded in the arabian sea, and it’s aiming straight for yemen. you know, that ol’ tropical paradise. you'll never believe who just bought weather.com! (it was ibm) dennis mersereau · 10/28/15 01:45pm computer and data giant ibm announced today that it’s purchased the weather company’s digital assets in a multi-billion dollar deal. ibm is now the proud owner of weather dot com—the world’s most popular source for finding out what this! is—as well as several other ventures. the weather channel was not included in the deal, and the television network will now operate on its own. please start using google image search to kill fake, viral pictures dennis mersereau · 10/26/15 04:27pm if you scrolled through facebook or twitter this weekend, odds are you saw at least a dozen different pictures of hurricane patricia. there’s a pretty good chance at least half of them were fake or misrepresented. if you have an internet browser, you have access to a quick and easy viral image debunker. the internet will be a better place if we all start using it. how hurricane patricia became the strongest storm ever recorded and why it killed so few people dennis mersereau · 10/26/15 07:00am hurricane patricia—the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded—made landfall on mexico’s west coast last friday as a powerful category five, the first scale-topper to strike north america in eight years. the storm managed to pack winds of 200 mph before making landfall, which is about as strong as a tropical cyclone can get—as far as we know, anyway. hurricane patricia makes landfall on mexico's west coast with 165 mph winds dennis mersereau · 10/23/15 07:03pm hurricane patricia is making its way inland this evening after making landfall on mexico’s west coast about 55 miles northwest of manzanillo. the storm had astonishing winds of 165 mph at landfall. patricia became the strongest hurricane ever recorded after it maxed-out with 200 mph winds for about 18 hours on friday. the storm is also one of the strongest to ever make landfall in north america. at 200 mph, hurricane patricia is now the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded dennis mersereau · 10/23/15 04:07am shortly after midnight on october 23, 2015, a group of courageous men and women flew into the center of hurricane patricia and landed in the history books. with measured winds of 200 mph, hurricane patricia became the strongest tropical cyclone ever recorded anywhere on earth. let that sink in for a moment. next page terms of service privacy policy