wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » the truth about best shared wordpress web hosting the truth about best shared wordpress web hosting last updated on february 19th, 2017 by editorial staff 27 shares share tweet share pin shared web hosting by far is the most popular type of hosting used by wordpress users. despite the popularity, people often do not understand what is shared wordpress web hosting? nobody ever talks about the truth behind those catchy “unlimited, easy, and affordable” phrases. before making any decisions, we highly recommend you to read through this article so you know what is shared wordpress hosting, and what are the advantages/disadvantages of shared web hosting. our hope is that our guide will help you make the best decision for your company. what is shared wordpress web hosting? shared hosting is when multiple websites share a large server. by having multiple sites on the same server, web hosting companies can provide the service at much more affordable rates. this is by far the most economical option when it comes to web hosting. to put things in perspective, a dedicated web server starts at somewhere around $150 per month and can go into thousands of dollars per month whereas you can find shared web hosting for anywhere from $3.95 per month to $9.95 per month. what’s the catch with shared wordpress web hosting? one of the biggest catch with most shared hosting companies is their marketing efforts. they boast unlimited disk space, unlimited bandwidth, unlimited domains, and basically unlimited everything. if you live in this world, then you know the only unlimited thing we have is the amount of lies that will come out of people’s mouth. there is no such thing as unlimited when it comes to web hosting. shared web hosting option is created for smaller websites which includes new bloggers, small businesses, etc. if every site used their quota, then shared hosting would not work. but since only very few do, it works out very nicely for everyone. users get a very affordable deal, and hosting companies make a good profit. long story short, it is the best option for people just starting out. but if your website starts to get popular and use up tons of server resource, then the companies will ask you to upgrade. having dealt with numerous hosting companies, some of them don’t ask so politely. they simply suspend your account, and then send you an email. others are not courteous enough to do that either. they would simply suspend your site and let you find out on your own. yeah that’s why you should pick the shared hosting company that has a good reputation. reputation is by far the only thing you should look at when it comes to shared wordpress web hosting. chances are that you don’t use most of the features they have available for you, so using the feature list to choose a web host doesn’t help you at all. often hosting companies bloat up that features list by adding the most obvious of things. because most people don’t understand the industry jargon, they look at the size of the feature list to make an uneducated decision. to choose a good shared web hosting company, the only thing you should look at is their reputation in the industry. that is the single most important factor because most shared hosting companies have the same offers. advantages of shared wordpress web hosting there is a huge cost advantage because the maintenance fees of the server is shared by thousands of websites. the hosting fee is around $3.95 – $9.95 / month. competition has led to improvements in technology. most shared wordpress web hosting comes with easy to use admin panel like cpanel, fantastico, etc. most popular companies employ highly skilled professionals. this allows you to peacefully concentrate on your business and not worry about maintenance and uptimes. most larger companies offer multiple services, so as your site grow you can upgrade without any hassle. we have been with the same web hosting company since 2007. disadvantages of shared wordpress web hosting compared to dedicated servers, you will notice a relatively slower server response times on shared web hosting servers. when companies get greedy, overselling can be a huge issue. this can cause regular site downtimes and lagging. again this is where reputation of the web hosting company comes in play. best shared web hosting services 299 reviews bluehostsavings one of the oldest web hosts started in 1996, bluehost has become the largest brand name when it comes to wordpress hosting. they are an official 'wordpress' recommended hosting provider. with bluehost, you never have to worry about your website being slow even when there is a lot of traffic. their 24/7 expert support is always there to help when you need it by phone, email, or live chat. they are rated #1 in web hosting for small businesses. on top of that, they are offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 63% off discount, a free domain, free ssl, and a free site builder with templates. 3,926 reviews sitegroundsavings siteground is one of the most popular and highest rated hosting provider in the wordpress community. they provide unique in-house wordpress speed and security solutions to make your site as fast and secure as possible. they are known for the best 24/7 support in the industry which is why they're an official 'wordpress' recommended hosting provider. this is also why we use siteground for hosting the wpbeginner website. siteground features include automatic upgrades, built-in wp caching, cdn, one-click staging and git version control. they are also one of the few companies offering location specific hosting with 3 data centers in usa, europe, and asia. on top of all this, they have а special 70% discount for wpbeginner readers. 79 reviews hostgatorsavings hostgator hosts over 8 million domains and is one of the most popular web hosts in the industry. with 1-click wordpress installation, 99.9% up time guarantee, and 24/7 support, it's a smart choice for every website owner. we consider them one of the best web hosting for businesses. they're offering our readers an exclusive 62% off discount, a free domain name, and free ssl certificate. 573 reviews dreamhostsavings dreamhost has been around for 18 years, and is known for making web hosting easy. you get custom dashboard, 1-click wordpress install, automatic wordpress updates, unlimited space, unlimited bandwidth and free ssds which makes your site 200% faster. dreamhost powers over 600,000 wordpress blogs and websites. there are no setup fees, and you also get a free domain. 101 reviews inmotion hosting inmotion hosting has been a well-known industry brand with reliable performance for business class hosting. with award winning technical support and 99.9% uptime, they are a user favorite. their unmatched u.s. based support is always there to help. inmotion hosting's wordpress hosting is optimized for active bloggers and offers great scalability for your blog's growth. they're offer our users an exclusive 57% off + free domain and free ssl. 387 reviews greengeekssavings greengeeks has become a well-known brand in the wordpress hosting industry with their blazing fast website performance, 24/7 u.s. based support, and an environmentally responsible platform. they offer automatic 1-click wordpress install, managed updates, enhanced security, free cdn, free site migration, and the choice of over 5 different data center locations. greengeeks power over 500,000 websites and customers love them. on top of all this, they have a special 60% discount for wpbeginner readers combined with free ssl and a free domain name. 34 reviews ipagesavings started in 1998, ipage powers over 1 million websites, and it is a well-known brand in wordpress hosting. with 24/7 support, 99.9% uptime, and 1-click wordpress install, ipage is a perfect place to start. you get a free drag and drop builder, free security suite, and everything else you need to build a successful website. on top of that, they are offering wpbeginner users an exclusive 83% off discount and a free domain. this makes ipage the most budget-friendly web hosting provider in our list. 35 reviews web hosting hubsavings web hosting hub is the easiest way to get online presence for small businesses. easy control panel, website builder, and wordpress combined with their amazing support, it is hard to beat their price and value. having earned numerous best value awards, web hosting hub also offers special discounts for wpbeginner users. 2 reviews just hostsavings just host formerly known as super green hosting has been one of wpbeginner's original partners. they have outstanding technical support and extremely reliable servers. they have a special deal for wpbeginner users which makes them the most affordable hosting company among all providers. not to mention, they are also offering free domain for life with every new account. 8 commentsleave a reply abbas says: dec 10, 2019 at 1:00 am i want to start a blog on wordpress. i have a blog on blogger on blogspot domain. how i can transfer my blog from blogger to wordpress. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 10, 2019 at 9:37 am to move your site, you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/wp-tutorials/how-to-switch-from-blogger-to-wordpress-without-losing-google-rankings/ reply theresa tucker says: aug 21, 2019 at 8:27 pm is wordpress simply a way to blog? i can blog and showcase my designs through my stampin’ up account. in a “social media training” video one of the other demonstrator said that it’s worth it to register your domain if you want to keep it. is that what wordpress does for me? do i need to register that? should i have a dot com web address? i’m sorry i’m trying to figure out what i need to do. thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: aug 22, 2019 at 9:43 am wordpress allows you to create a blog or a website, it is not a domain registration tool. for understanding hosting vs your domain you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/whats-the-difference-between-domain-name-and-web-hosting-explained/ reply h saleem says: jul 13, 2019 at 9:06 pm hi, i am a total beginner to wordpress and have been researching this topic for quite some time but still unclear. please explain, 1) is normal shared web hosting the same as shared wordpress hosting? 2) all hosting plans give one click wordpress installation from cpanel, so what is cpanel’s wordpress installation’s place in shared web hosting vs. shared wordpress hosting? thank you. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 15, 2019 at 11:43 am both of those are very dependent on the specific host you are looking at reply chetan says: jun 28, 2019 at 7:58 am well detailed blog, i have a question that if i get shared host plan and if traffic increase and in the middle of the year i wish to go for vps plan or , then will my half money adjust in upgrading plan or i have to pay full amount for new plan?. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 1, 2019 at 11:53 am it would depend on your specific host for how they handle that type of upgrade. if you reach out to their support they should be able to let you know. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.