the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu amazing race travel tips! posted on january 20, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker ok, i have to admit, i’m not much of a fan of reality tv. never got into survivor or the apprentice, and don’t even get me started with dancing with the stars. however, there is one reality tv show that i never miss, the amazing race. what sets this show apart from the others you… read more performance in adventure races posted on january 19, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker checkpoint zero has a really interesting article about what are the most important elements to consider when preparing for an adventure race. basically, the article suggests that we focus too much on the conditioning aspects of preparing for a race, and forget about some other elements that are very crucial to successfully completing a race…. read more explore the world from your desktop! posted on january 18, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker anyone who knows me will tell you that i’m a complete tech geek. i love gadgets, gizmos, and gear of all kinds. i do it for a living, and i’m always on the look out for some new gadget. as such, i’ll be making entries here from time to time about some great new piece… read more national geographic’s top 25 adventure travel trips! posted on january 17, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker i just found this article over at the national geographic websitewhich lists their top 25 adventure travel trips. there are tons of great trips on the list, and pretty much something for everyone who has an adventurous heart. the list is in no particular order, and is broken down by region. the highlights for me… read more mystery on nanga parbat posted on january 17, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker reinhold messner is considered a legend in the climbing community. many consider him to be the greatest mountain climber ever, and his resume is indeed impressive. he was the first man to climb all fourteen 8000 meter peaks, and he did it without the use of supplemental oxygen. he is known as a bold, aggressive… read more welcome to my blog! posted on january 17, 2006december 25, 2018 by kraig becker how many of us have always dreamed about leading an adventurous life? dreamed of traveling to the far corners of the world to experience a completely new culture? exploring a vast, untamed area, or even just discovering what lies just around the corner on the path ahead? that’s what leading an adventurous life is all… read more previous 1 … 1,375 1,376 1,377 1,378 search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog