english português politics justice national security world technology environment special investigations voices podcasts videos documents become a member about editorial policies become a source join newsletter flm the intercept is a first look media company. © first look media. all rights reserved terms of use privacy how ice operations in new york set the stage for a coronavirus nightmare in local jails ryan devereaux politics justice national security world technology environment about become a member top stories millions of people will struggle to pay rent in april, but few in congress care aída chávez amid record high unemployment, most congressional democrats have shown no interest in addressing many people’s inability to make major bill payments. debt collection industry deems itself essential to “financial health” of consumers, fights covid-19 shutdown lee fang lobbyists argue that debt collection must not be suspended during the pandemic, citing an “ethnically diverse” and women-majority workforce. as congress pushes a $2 trillion stimulus package, the “how will you pay for it?” question is tossed in the trash stephanie kelton when all of this is behind us, to the extent that it ever can be, let’s not forget what we’ve learned: congress knows how to spend money when it wants to. to develop a covid-19 vaccine, pharma and the federal government will have to break old patterns rachel m. cohen time’s up said it could not fund a #metoo allegation against joe biden, citing its nonprofit status and his presidential run ryan grim vital federal contracts for ventilators and coronavirus supplies will take months to complete sharon lerner in west african coronavirus hotspot, war has left 700,000 homeless and exposed nick turse join our newsletter become a member weekly editor’s picks breaking stories and exclusives politics coverage i’m in voices the coronavirus crisisas congress pushes a $2 trillion stimulus package, the “how will you pay for it?” question is tossed in the trash stephanie kelton the coronavirus crisisthe pandemic could overwhelm the insurance industry. we must expand tricare for everybody who needs it jon walker videos the coronavirus crisismehdi hasan and jeremy scahill on coronavirus, the “bailout,” and the 2020 election the intercept podcasts deconstructed podcastis the trump cult a death cult? intercepted podcastcapitalist death panels: if corporate vultures get their way, we’ll be dead about editorial policies become a source join newsletter become a member terms of use privacy securedrop © first look media. all rights reserved