home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the sane society: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on how to save us from ourselves an antidote to helplessness and disorientation: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on our human fragility as the key to our survival and our sanity erich fromm’s 6 rules of listening: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist on the art of unselfish understanding labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on what self-love really means and why it is the basic condition for a sane society “in the experience of love lies the only answer to being human, lies sanity.” by maria popova “we are well advised to keep on nodding terms with the people we used to be, whether we find them attractive company or not,” joan didion famously wrote in making her case for the value of keeping a notebook. but many of us frequently find it hard enough to be on nodding terms even with the people we currently are. “we have to imagine a world in which celebration is less suspect than criticism,” psychoanalyst adam phillips wrote in contemplating the perils of self-criticism and how to break free from the internal critics that enslave us. and yet can we even imagine self-celebration — do we even know what it looks like — if we are so blindly bedeviled by self-criticism? can we, in other words, celebrate what we cannot accept and therefore cannot love? how to break this möbius strip of self-rejection is what the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm (march 23, 1900–march 18, 1980) explores in a portion of his timeless 1956 treatise the sane society (public library) — the source of fromm’s increasingly timely wisdom on our best shot at saving ourselves from ourselves. erich fromm fromm frames love as what he calls “the productive orientation” of the psyche, an “active and creative relatedness of man to his fellow man, to himself and to nature.” he writes: in the realm of feeling, the productive orientation is expressed in love, which is the experience of union with another person, with all men, and with nature, under the condition of retaining one’s sense of integrity and independence. in the experience of love the paradox happens that two people become one, and remain two at the same time. love in this sense is never restricted to one person. if i can love only one person, and nobody else, if my love for one person makes me more alienated and distant from my fellow man, i may be attached to this person in any number of ways, yet i do not love. art by olivier tallec from this is a poem that heals fish by jean-pierre simeón just as self-compassion is the seedbed of compassion, fromm argues that such all-inclusive love must begin with self-love: if i can say, “i love you,” i say, “i love in you all of humanity, all that is alive; i love in you also myself.” self-love, in this sense, is the opposite of selfishness. the latter is actually a greedy concern with oneself which springs from and compensates for the lack of genuine love for oneself. love, paradoxically, makes me more independent because it makes me stronger and happier — yet it makes me one with the loved person to the extent that individuality seems to be extinguished for the moment. in loving i experience “i am you,” you — the loved person, you — the stranger, you — everything alive. in the experience of love lies the only answer to being human, lies sanity. fromm is careful to point out that in this “productive orientation,” love is not a passive abstraction but an active responsibility. shortly before martin luther king, jr. made his abiding case for the respectful and responsible love of agape, fromm writes: productive love always implies a syndrome of attitudes; that of care, responsibility, respect and knowledge. if i love, i care — that is, i am actively concerned with the other person’s growth and happiness; i am not a spectator. i am responsible, that is, i respond to his needs, to those he can express and more so to those he cannot or does not express. i respect him, that is (according to the original meaning of re-spicere) i look at him as he is, objectively and not distorted by my wishes and fears. i know him, i have penetrated through his surface to the core of his being and related myself to him from my core, from the center, as against the periphery, of my being. the sane society is an enormously insightful read in its totality. complement it with fromm on the art of living, the art of loving, and how to transcend the common laziness of optimism and pessimism, then revisit this animated primer on the difficult art of self-compassion. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published april 27, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/04/27/erich-fromm-sane-society-self-love/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscultureerich frommphilosophypsychology view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.