skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts that you use on your website reflects the nature of your website and can help to reinforce your brand in the visitors’ minds. for instance, you may want light and attractive fonts on a website that’s meant for kids. or, if you need a website for your rock band, some outlandish or funky fonts can help. for a lawyer’s website, you may want sturdy and solid fonts. the type of fonts that you use is mostly determined by your theme. most premium themes come with inbuilt access to google fonts and allow you to tweak the theme files to alter the fonts. developers can also add external fonts to wordpress themes. but if you’re not familiar with code, and don’t want to mess with the theme files, you can simply look to the many wordpress font plugins that can help to add and modify fonts on your website. if you’re using video elements, interactive infographics or dynamic media environments, you may want to try free flowing hipster fonts. but to generally add fonts to your website and to modify them as you wish, you can use wordpress font plugins. take care to choose plugins based on user interface and ability to upload custom fonts. free wordpress font plugins the wordpress plugin repository has a number of free font plugins that help you to add google fonts to your website. many of them allow you to add custom fonts as well, and allow you to work from a user friendly interface. easy google fonts easy google fonts is compatible with any theme and is a convenient plugin to add google fonts to your wordpress theme, without using code. since the plugin integrates with the wordpress customizer, you can preview the fonts in real time. by helping you make changes to font controls in your theme and make it available in the admin area, it pretty much gives you full control over the typography of your theme. and with some basic knowledge of css selectors, you can add custom font rules. you get to choose from over 600+ google fonts and font variants. the google font list is updated automatically with the latest fonts. the plugin is a useful tool for theme authors who want to add google fonts to their themes. more info / download use any font use any font allows you to use any custom font you want on your website without having to use code. it does not restrict you to the fonts of any particular service, nor does it involve storing your fonts on a remote server. and so, you’re not dependent on any third party server’s uptime. all the fonts are stored on your own server, and the conversion happens on the plugin server, after which it is returned to the site. the plugin supports all major browsers and font conversion happens within the plugin interface. the uploaded fonts can be used directly from the wordpress editor. uploaded custom fonts can be used directly from the theme options panel of many premium themes. multiple custom fonts are allowed (premium), and the plugin is fast and seo friendly. an api key is necessary to access the plugin’s server for font conversion. you can access one font set free, but if you need more than one font set, you’ll need to pay for the api keys. custom font sizes upto 15mb is allowed. more info / download fonts fonts adds options to your visual editor. this makes it possible for you to make changes to the fonts and accept them even as you are working on your post or page. two options are added in a drop down format – one option for font sizes and the other option for font styles. working with the plugin is similar to working with any word processor. to be able to add you own custom fonts, you’ll need to upgrade to the premium version of the plugin. more info / download tinymce advanced the visual editor in wordpress makes it easy for you to work within wordpress by allowing you to quickly call on the options in the toolbar. but not all the options can be accessed from the toolbar. the tinymce advanced plugin lets you add, delete and edit buttons in the visual editor toolbar. the tinymce plugin does not add fonts to your wordpress, but it allows you to add up to four rows of buttons to the toolbar. you can add buttons to adjust font sizes and font family and to format your pages and posts. more info / download zeno font resizer if the zeno font resizer is active on your website, you can give your readers the option to increase or decrease the font size as they wish. the readers see the same sizes when they revisit the site, as the settings are saved in a cookie. the plugin uses javascript and jquery to set the size of the fonts. the plugin adds a font resizer widget to your sidebar. or you can add the template code on any page or post. the content which can be resized can be defined in the admin page. the default option resizes all the content on your site. since plugin uses jquery, users can adjust font size without having to reload the page. more info / download custom fonts if you would like to spice up the experience of your existing website with custom fonts, well, you better get your hands on custom fonts. this free wordpress font plugin is super easy to use, yet it can create a strong and rewarding impact on your website. first, you install the tool. second, you activate it in your wordpress admin dashboard. and then, well, you are ready to upload font files of all sorts of different files, like woff2, ttf, svg and eot. bear in mind, custom fonts works flawlessly with astra and beaver builder themes, as well as beaver builder plugin and elementor drag and drop page builder. you will find all your new fonts in the settings sections where you can pick them from a drop down menu. moreover, if you are not using any of the mentioned themes and plugins, you can also write a custom css to add new fonts. more info / download styleguide styleguide styles your wordpress theme’s fonts and colors in the live customize section. before you go live, play around with different options and find the right look that will best represent your project online. with styleguide, you can effortlessly add a distinct touch to your online presence and make it more memorable. besides, anyone can make changes and improvements with styleguide. in other words, there is no need for you to hire a designer nor a coder to do it for you. moreover, styleguide supports all default wordpress themes and, with future updates, you can expect the tool to work with loads of other web design as well. also, styleguide supports a whole bunch of different character sets that you can use to fine-tune your page. from cyrillic and devanagari to greek, hebrew and latin, styleguide works with all and then some. more info / download omgf omgf stands for optimize my google fonts, allowing to host google fonts locally. with omgf, you can leverage browser cache and minimize dns requests. omgf optimizes your website or blog further, helping you boost the page load speed even more. for your information, the entire configuration of omgf is pretty damn simple. however, if you are not really sure what you are doing, talk to your web developer first and go from there. moreover, omgf detects which google fonts your theme uses, downloads them, generates a spreadsheet and automatically adds them to your header. you can also change the caching patch, preload the entire stylesheet or just fonts above the fold and automatically generate local source for fonts. there is always room for improvement, and maybe you have not yet thought of your fonts. now you know. more info / download google fonts typography if you would like to enrich your website or blog with different fonts, google fonts typography will help you do that. it allows you to pick any from over nine hundred google fonts and integrate it into any wordpress theme that you use. also, you can easily configure one font for the heading and one for the content, no need to stick to the same one throughout the entire website. what’s cool about google fonts typography is the live preview that offers you to check first how the font looks on your page before you go live. some of the features of google fonts typography are one click updates, seo-friendliness, hosting google fonts locally and complete support for different languages. in the typography settings, you can also configure font size, color, line heights and weights. more info / download dehkadeh fonts when you are translating your website, you can utilize the power of dehkadeh fonts and introduce persian language. this free wordpress font plugin has all the necessary to set persian fonts in the wordpress customizer. what’s cool, with the plugin, you can also customize the wordpress’ admin dashboard. in short, dehkadeh fonts is a full-blown free wordpress plugin for persian users. in the bundle, dehkadeh fonts has 120 available fonts, but you can easily upload custom fonts as well. the process of installation and activation of the plugin is exactly the same as of any other plugin you ever installed. once live, you can start benefitting from its features right away. in addition to that, if you need any extra support and assistance, you can always hit up plugin’s author. more info / download arabic webfonts arabic webfonts is another quality plugin to add arabic fonts to your wordpress website. it adds customs font controls for your theme and controls the typography in real time. it integrates with your wordpress customizer, so you can view the font changes even as you make them. it’s compatible with most standard wordpress themes. moreover, it allows you to create custom font controls in the admin area and make it available in the customizer area for use, without using code. with the plugin active on your site, you can control font size, type and style for each and every section in real time. more info / download wp google fonts wp google fonts makes it easier to add fonts from the google font library to your website. it helps you add the site specific google code to your wordpress. from your wordpress settings, it also allows you to assign the fonts to specific css elements. or, you can even assign the fonts working from your own stylesheet. the plugin is regularly updated to take advantage of new additions to the google font library. more info / download premium wordpress font plugins this list of wordpress font plugins includes a single premium plugin. this plugin is devoted entirely to management of fonts, unlike many other premium plugins which include font management as one of their features. fontpress fontpress is a powerful plugin that helps you totally manage all your fonts. it offers a wide range of fonts letting you choose from cufons, google and adobe edge web fonts, adobe typekits, @font-face fonts or simple css fonts. not only that, it also supports early access fonts, google’s new fonts for non latin languages. to use the plugin, select the fonts you want on your website and create global rules for their use. a number of parameters help to adjust font height and width, weight, color, background color, outline and shadow effect. transform options for capitalization, font styles and decoration options are available. and if you want to prevent others from copying content, you can choose to turn text into an unselectable entity. using typography shortcode, you can also create custom text blocks. the font preview feature lets you view the fonts in all combinations of bold and italics. it includes css3 responsive units for font size and line height. more info / purchase self-hosted google fonts pro self-hosted google fonts pro is a wordpress plugin that will help boost the performance of your website. when utilizing this plugin, there is no need for css to edit, fonts to download or upload and no need to perform any changes and configurations to your themes or plugins. the integration is quick and easy, allowing you to refine your web space in a snap of a finger. some of the features of self-hosted google fonts pro are automatic processing and conversion, unicode-range and font-display behavior to name a few. as for the latter, browsers have invisible text and your font only appear when downloaded. that’s when self-hosted google fonts pro comes into play. it has a unique feature that uses a fallback font immediately. to elevate the experience, you might consider taking a peek at self-hosted google fonts pro. more info / purchase in conclusion fonts help to increase user engagement on your website and enhances user experience. they impart character to your site and reinforce brand value. the plugins in this list will help you add, customize and manage fonts on your website. and before you select a particular font, take a minute to check that it’s free for use. it could save you some legal trouble later. as always, if we have missed out your favorite plugin, please let us know in the comments below. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. free pluginshipsterwordpress free pluginswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an… top 31 best plugins for wordpress photoblogs 2020 photographers have a great advantage in displaying their work online. a simple blogging platform like… the best free wordpress pricing table plugins 2020 selling a product is never an easy task, and selling online is a great deal… 16 best free wordpress affiliate plugins to crush it in 2020 if you are coming up with solutions on how to monetize your website, these free… toolset review: a suite of tools to extend the possibilities of wordpress toolset is a suite of tools that can help you extend the functionality of wordpress… 10 free wordpress facebook feed plugins the best way for your web page to get noticed on the internet is by… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 next post: 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×