home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads hooked on the heavens: how caroline herschel, the first professional woman astronomer, nearly died by meathook in the name of science rosanne cash on how science saved her life, the source of every artist’s power, and her beautiful reading of adrienne rich’s tribute to marie curie what miss mitchell saw: an illustrated celebration of how 19th-century astronomer maria mitchell blazed the way for women in science labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the universe in verse: astrophysicist janna levin reads “planetarium,” adrienne rich’s tribute to women in astronomy “i am bombarded yet i stand.” by maria popova caroline herschel, the first professional woman astronomer, was a remarkable woman who lived a long and pathbreaking life. her parents deemed her too ugly to marry and envisioned for her a life as a servant — she became the cinderella of the household, tending to the domestic needs of her parents and her eleven siblings. but herschel, though incredibly humble, had a tenacity of spirit that kept her quiet passion for the life of the mind burning. she went on to pave the way for women in science, becoming the first woman admitted into the royal astronomical society — the era’s most prestigious scientific institution — alongside the scottish mathematician mary somerville (for whom the word “scientist” was coined). exactly 120 years after herschel’s death, the great poet and feminist adrienne rich (may 16, 1929–march 27, 2012) — a woman who espoused the political power of poetry and believed that “poetry can break open locked chambers of possibility” — commemorated herschel’s far-reaching legacy of unlocking a universe of possibility for women in a beautiful 1968 poem titled “planetarium,” found in rich’s indispensable collected poems: 1950–2012 (public library). at the universe in verse — my celebration of science through poetry, which also gave us neil gaiman’s new feminist poem about the dawn of science — astrophysicist and author janna levin brought rich’s masterpiece to life in an enchanting reading: planetarium thinking of caroline herschel (1750–1848) astronomer, sister of william; and others. a woman in the shape of a monster a monster in the shape of a woman the skies are full of them a woman ‘in the snow among the clocks and instruments or measuring the ground with poles’ in her 98 years to discover 8 comets she whom the moon ruled like us levitating into the night sky riding the polished lenses galaxies of women, there doing penance for impetuousness ribs chilled in those spaces of the mind an eye, ‘virile, precise and absolutely certain’ from the mad webs of uranusborg encountering the nova every impulse of light exploding from the core as life flies out of us tycho whispering at last ‘let me not seem to have lived in vain’ what we see, we see and seeing is changing the light that shrivels a mountain and leaves a man alive heartbeat of the pulsar heart sweating through my body the radio impulse pouring in from taurus i am bombarded yet i stand i have been standing all my life in the direct path of a battery of signals the most accurately transmitted most untranslatable language in the universe i am a galactic cloud so deep so invo- luted that a light wave could take 15 years to travel through me and has taken i am an instrument in the shape of a woman trying to translate pulsations into images for the relief of the body and the reconstruction of the mind. a curious footnote i shared at the show: when i first encountered this poem years ago, i was struck by its searing beauty, but also puzzled by why, out of all possible cosmic phenomena, rich chose to make a particular mention of pulsars. it wasn’t until i devoured levin’s gorgeous book black hole blues that i came to suspect why: the first pulsar, which revolutionized our understanding of the universe, was discovered in 1967 — less than a year before rich wrote the poem — by a 23-year-old astronomer named jocelyn bell, who was subsequently excluded from the nobel prize for the discovery she herself had made. this being an adrienne rich poem, i’ve always taken its dedication — to caroline herschel “and others” — to mean “and other unsung and undersung women in astronomy.” after reading levin’s book, i’ve come to suspect that rich’s deliberate mention of pulsars — a completely nascent discovery at the time, and not at all common cosmic vocabulary — was a deliberate feminist bow to jocelyn bell (who, incidentally, went on to be an enormous champion of the common ground between poetry and science herself.) for other beautiful readings of beloved poets’ work, hear cynthia nixon reading emily dickinson, amanda palmer reading wisława szymborska, sylvia boorstein reading pablo neruda, jon kabat-zinn reading derek walcott, orson welles reading walt whitman, and amanda palmer reading e.e. cummings, then revisit janna levin on the century-long quest to capture the sound of spacetime, how mathematician kurt gödel shaped the modern mind, why scientists do what they do, and her magnificent moth story about the improbable paths that lead us back to ourselves. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published april 27, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/04/27/janna-levin-reads-planetarium-by-adrienne-rich/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under adrienne richastronomybookscaroline herscheljanna levinpoetrypoliticssciencesoundcloudthe universe in versewomen view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.