the last ditch an englishman returned after twenty years abroad blogs about liberty in britain home archives profile subscribe home archives profile subscribe the truth about the shrewsbury 24 sunday, march 22, 2020 private eye reports that the criminal cases review commission will send the case of the 1970s “flying pickets” back to the court of appeal. six of these violent thugs, including the actor (and former member of the neo-nazi national front) ricky tomlinson, who intimidated construction workers into voting for a strike they had previously rejected were convicted in the nearest crown court to where i grew up and rightfully imprisoned. there were many more than six and the only injustice in the case is that they were not all imprisoned — and for longer. it is one of many lies accepted as fact in britain’s leftist academia that the shrewsbury pickets are innocent victims of tory injustice. they are not. they were found guilty after due process of law by a jury of their peers. they had legal representation and every opportunity to defend themselves. politics didn’t come into it but for the record this happened under a labour government. justice was done. how can i be so sure? i was there. i blogged about it further here. this strike, the most violent in british history before the miners’ strike led by tomlinson’s friend arthur scargill, changed my life. i was a teenage maoist — an advocate of violent revolution to establish a totalitarian stalinist state. like many young intellectuals (and a disturbing number of older ones) i craved the certainty of h.l. mencken’s sarcastic observation that; for every complex problem there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong. after my encounter with tomlinson’s thugs, i told my maoist mentor and school friend (still a friend and still a maoist) about it. i expressed my disgust at the violent intimidation of my friends on the building site but he told me i was wrong. your friends are from the lumpen proletariat. the pickets were of the proletariat — the organised working class. what you saw was the dictatorship of the proletariat. it was marxist, it was right and you should have been proud to be there. it’s to my shame that i was ever mug enough to fall for communist ideas. i take comfort that, confronted with the violence i was stupidly advocating, there was something in me that was repelled. i asked the local librarian who had been dishing out marxist books to me for something from the other point of view. my journey to becoming firstly chairman of my university’s conservative association and later a classical liberal/libertarian and a follower of the austrian school of economics began. private eye is supposed to be a satirical publication but its naive acceptance of the left’s agitprop speaks volumes as to how far it has fallen. the campaigners probably know the pickets were guilty as charged, but don’t care. their violence was class violence, it was good violence, it was “struggle” against the bosses’ class. violence is only wrong to them when it’s directed against them. they are well-organised and relentless in their lies. tomlinson is rich from his later show business career. the working men they intimidated won’t want to waste their retirement or jeopardise their financial security by opposing them. i fear we shall live to see tomlinson and his cohorts rewarded for their violence with hard-earned taxpayers’ money. posted at 06:18 am in crime & punishment, history | permalink | comments (0) reblog (0) life in the time of corona saturday, march 21, 2020 my conventional-thinking, main-stream media reliant friends sneer at the blogosphere; dismissing it all as "fake news". yet at present they are furiously emailing, facebooking, whatsapping and tweeting coronavirus disinformation by the shedload. clicking on and deleting all this "fake news" from them affords me some amusement in a dark time. i do worry about the effect on the nation's morale however. humans didn't survive to become this planet's dominant species for lack of risk-aversion. we take in our stride the risks we are used to (e.g. driving) without worrying about the death rate but our instinctive response to novel risks is to over-react. ex abundenti cautela, as lawyers like to say when lawyering an issue to death at great expense. what scientific knowledge i have is – at best – that of a dilettante. it was gleaned from the basics i learned at school before dropping every science i could at the first opportunity. that has been supplemented by casual reading of science articles in generalist newspapers and magazines. quite a lot of it came from my boyhood reading of super hero and sci-fi comics, so i can tell you more about the properties of kryptonite than of any virus. so, unlike my friends on social media, i shall not be commenting on the medical risk. i have nothing to add and anything i do say will change nothing, so mum's the word. actually, those theorising without data or expertise would do better (if they're lucky enough still to have her) to use that time to call their mum. the only observations i have in the context of the present pandemic are to do with economics and political history. most economics errors (like the "broken window fallacy" first explained by frederic bastiat) stem from prioritising a seen effect over the unseen ones. in an emergency like the present one, governments – eager to be seen to "do something" – are likely to act forcefully on the seen economic effects of the crisis, while ignoring the unseen. keeping their heads while all around are losing theirs and blaming it on them is hard for politicians at the best of times. tending to narcissism or sociopathy anyway, they have less difficulty than the rest of us in seeing themselves as saviours. there is danger here. this article by chris edwards at the cato institute explains the danger well and i commend it to you. classical liberals and the dryer kinds of conservative feel threatened in such crises because we seem to lack the bold answers offered by authoritarian statists. even britain's classically-liberal prime minister, who is otherwise acquitting himself quite well in the circumstances, has promised state intervention on a scale and at a cost that might give jeremy corbyn or bernie sanders pause for thought. i predict that ten years from now it will be clear in retrospect that government actions to "save" the economy did more harm than good – even without taking into account the way such measures are bound to be gamed. were i still practising law, i would be strategically positioning my clients under every tap of government aid that is about to be turned on. the lawyers, accountants and lobbyists of the big corporations will be doing just that. as to political history, it teaches us that authoritarians love the opportunities presented by a crisis. i scoff at the conspiracy theories poisoning minds on the internet. no government (not even the monstrous chinese regime) would cause such a pandemic on purpose, but all of them will seize the opportunity it presents to expand their power. income tax in britain was introduced as an emergency measure to fund the napoleonic war. napoleon is no longer a threat, but still the tax bills keep on coming. any emergency measure should expire. if it doesn't, it's a fraud. emergency laws (actually, i would argue all statute laws) should have "sunset clauses" so they expire unless specifically renewed. parliamentary scrutiny is essential and any reader who has the ear of his or her mp should press these points home. as for the rest of us, let's just listen to the credible advice on offer, take what precautions we can and be kind to each other – especially the elderly and other vulnerable people who are most at risk. i hope all my gentle readers will come out of this pandemic unscathed. here's wishing us all luck. posted at 12:19 pm in civil liberties, conservatives, current affairs, economics | permalink | comments (8) reblog (0) next cookies what they are and how to turn them off bbc cookies explanation legal notice if you read this website without turning cookies off in your browser you are deemed to have agreed to their use. search submit tom elsewhere facebook: 563885190 twitter: tompaine subscribe in a reader enter your email address: delivered by feedburner recent posts the truth about the shrewsbury 24 life in the time of corona the last ditch blogiversary book review: “how to survive the most critical five seconds of your life”, by tim larkin and chris ranck-buhr book review: this is london - life and death in the world city a great weekend brexit day is here roger scruton please read this before you vote nato: what’s the point? recent comments tom on life in the time of corona david bishop on life in the time of corona tom on life in the time of corona david bishop on life in the time of corona tom on life in the time of corona cheryl churm on life in the time of corona tom on life in the time of corona longrider on life in the time of corona tcheuchter on the last ditch blogiversary tom on the last ditch blogiversary favourite posts 'mrs paine' - 1956-2011 a chap is entitled to his style a fantastic day for democracy? an end to racism call them fees. call them taxes. call them bananas, if you like. a national spa aberfan is remembered 40 years on an adventurous nation an everyday incident in blair's britain an ordinary girl an unexpected encounter with a monster andrea levy back in blighty bernard levin and the single issue fanatic blair's britain, part ii compulsion works credo democracy in crisis edukashun, edookayshen, education ends, ways and means for love happy fourth of july how english am i? if guns are unnecessary, how come our rulers are surrounded by armed police? in the dragons' den in the land of the free? joy's enemies justice -vs- social justice mod ‘missing’ £6.6bn of hardware not right and left, but right and wrong of poverty and privilege of selfishness project sneer questions of conscience sarah palin and me she will always be our beautiful girl. she was not just a prostitute should "egging on" be a crime? slavery in modern britain social justice -v- justice the bbc is a worker's co-operative the difference between communism and socialism the end of days? the fight is on the four ways of spending money the housing (empty dwelling management orders) (prescribed exceptions and requirements) (england) order 2006 the jean charles memorial blog round up the most brilliant of the useful idiots? the old age of prudence the post truth era began long ago the same difference? (the "party x" post) the same river a second time the thatcher test the truth about british education the truth in a sea of internet lies the weaponisation of politeness the worst "reform" of modern times? thomas paine time to slaughter the sacred cow? truth, morals and democracy what can we hope to achieve? (part iii of "what's the point of blogging?") what have we learned? what is it about the jews? what libertarianism isn't wrong problem, wrong solution “hate speech” is ok, if it’s right on blogspot archives the original version - mar 2005 to sep 2006 counsel's opinion / brexit legal analysis of potential financial liabilities martin howe qc: withdrawal of uk from eu – financial liabilities – 12th march 2017 tom's us tour 2013 first post in "the great us road trip" (in case you want to read it from the beginning) click here to trackmytour! tom paine's us tour 2013 about tom 17 following 217 followers statistics google analytics view my stats the last ditch • powered by typepad top