sign in•sign up search home premium local radio recents trending music sports news talk podcasts by location by language sign in sign up start free trial download app the smart passive income online business and blogging podcast business & economics podcasts pat flynn from the smart passive income blog reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. although pat confesses he is not a millionaire, he's been supporting his family 100% with passive income generated online, easily earning a six-figure salary while working only a few hours a week. automation, outsourcing, crowdsourcing, search engine optimization, building authority and trust, niche sites, social media, facebook, twitter, youtube, podcasting, ebooks, online courses, affiliate marketing, getting things done and everything that works (and doesn't work) to help you better understand how to crush it with your online business. pat flynn from the smart passive income blog reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. although pat confesses he is not a millionaire, he's been supporting his family 100% with passive income generated online, easily earning a six-figure salary while working only a few hours a week. automation, outsourcing, crowdsourcing, search engine optimization, building authority and trust, niche sites, social media, facebook, twitter, youtube, podcasting, ebooks, online courses, affiliate marketing, getting things done and everything that works (and doesn't work) to help you better understand how to crush it with your online business. favoriteshare more information location: san diego, ca genres: business & economics podcasts description: pat flynn from the smart passive income blog reveals all of his online business and blogging strategies, income sources and killer marketing tips and tricks so you can be ahead of the curve with your online business or blog. discover how you can create multiple passive income streams that work for you so that you can have the time and freedom to do what you love, whether it's traveling the world, or just living comfortably at home. although pat confesses he is not a millionaire, he's been supporting his family 100% with passive income generated online, easily earning a six-figure salary while working only a few hours a week. automation, outsourcing, crowdsourcing, search engine optimization, building authority and trust, niche sites, social media, facebook, twitter, youtube, podcasting, ebooks, online courses, affiliate marketing, getting things done and everything that works (and doesn't work) to help you better understand how to crush it with your online business. twitter: @patflynn language: english website: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/ email: pat@smartpassiveincome.com episodes spi 416: before your first or next presentation do this, with grant baldwin 3/25/2020 more #416: on this spi podcast episode, grant baldwin from thespeakerlab.com is here. grant loves to be up with a microphone in front of a group of people. he just released a book called the successful speaker, and he's here to share some great advice about preparing for a presentation. have a listen. you'll learn, why speaking might be a great gig for you, the most important questions to ask yourself as you prepare your talk, the number one most powerful thing to include in every talk, and more.... duration:00:59:04 emergency episode #2: steps to take when you get laid off 3/25/2020 more pat and matt discuss getting laid off, and the next steps you can take to turn your knowledge into a potential freelancing career, either on the side, or potentially full time. pat discusses his layoff in 2008 during the recession and how to set yourself up for success mentally, and matt takes it home to give you specific advice on where to potentially go from here. read more here: www.smartpassiveincome.com/toolkit duration:01:09:23 emergency episode: covid-19 and maintaining your business 3/19/2020 more pat flynn and matt gartland (cfo + coo of spi media) come together to chat about the current state of businesses during the covid-19 pandemic. health comes first, however almost every business, online and offline, is being affected by what's happening, and matt and i wanted to come on to share some thoughts about how to navigate these turbulent times with your business. from finances to team culture and mental health, we hope this episode provides some help to you during this time. for more... duration:00:46:55 spi 415: how to make money through voice-over work, with mike russell 3/18/2020 more #415: if you've ever thought about getting into the world of voice-over work, today's guest is here with a ton of information about how to use your voice to make money. mike russell and his wife, isabella, are co-founders of music radio creative. today, he shares his story about how he got into voice-over work and built his amazing agency. you'll learn how you can break into the voice-over space, how to get started, and more. read show notes here:... duration:00:40:44 spi 414: the podcast interviewer authority strategy that led to a six-figure business, with erika vieira 3/11/2020 more #414: in this episode, we talk with erika vieira who started a podcast because she was curious about the world of successful female youtubers. she now has a six-figure business and amazing relationships with youtubers who are helping her grow her own audience and authority. you'll learn about unexpected opportunities that podcasting can create, how you can turn your curiosity into something that pays, and more. read show notes here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session414 duration:00:41:50 spi 413: the secrets of publishing for profit (both fiction and non-fiction), with mark dawson 3/4/2020 more #413: in this episode, i talk with mark dawson who made more than $1.5 million last year alone from self-published books. now, he teaches other people how to put out self-published books, and he has very unique strategies and a formula for doing that. listen in and learn why self-publishing worked better than traditional publishing for mark, how to position yourself for success when publishing books, strategies for placing amazon ads, and more. read show notes here:... duration:00:43:42 spi 412: the power and pain of partnerships & the future of content on the web, with darrell vesterfelt 2/26/2020 more #412: in this episode, we're talking with darrell vesterfelt who can give us the low-down on all things partnerships. a partnership brings another pro onto your team to focus on what they do best, so you can focus on what you do best. and you both have ownership of the venture. listen in to learn why sole entrepreneurs might consider forming a partnership, the first steps toward bringing a partner on board, and what needs to happen legally to be in a partnership. read show notes here:... duration:00:57:05 spi 411: 5 market must-haves when building a business that will succeed, with ryan levesque 2/19/2020 more #411: is the market that you are serving viable for a long-term business model? is it actually possible for you to succeed and make money in that space? well, that's what we're going to talk about today with special guest ryan levesque. you'll learn the two most important things you need to be successful in business, how to not choose a bad market, and how to find a market-size sweet spot. read the show notes here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session411 duration:00:59:57 spi 410: how building a tribe took this man from rock bottom to massive business success 2/12/2020 more spi #410: in one day, mark bowness' marriage ended, he lost his job, and he lost his community and sense of self. he was at rock bottom. now he's a leading authority helping coaches, consultants, experts, thought leaders and entrepreneurs to build purpose-driven tribes. in this episode, you'll learn how to amplify your work and impact through building community, the four key elements of a tribe, and what makes a great leader. read show notes here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session410 duration:00:45:01 spi 409: an interview with jess my executive assistant (and how we choreograph our work together) 2/5/2020 more #409: if you've ever thought that you don't have enough time to do everything you want to do, listen to this podcast episode. i interview my executive assistant, who has made it possible for me to focus on the big picture items on my to-do list. she's super organized, and, well, it's time for you to get to know her. you'll learn how to work with an executive assistant, how to build a strong relationship, and what tasks to handoff. podcast show notes available here:... duration:00:42:56 spi 408: how to hire the right help and get more time back without driving yourself crazy 1/29/2020 more #408: in this episode, we're talking with shannon and bryan miles from belaysolutions.com. they have a three-pronged approach to helping entrepreneurs get the support they need— featuring virtual assistants (vas), bookkeepers, and web assistants. you'll learn how to determine the right time to hire an executive assistant, what the qualities of a great virtual assistant are, and how to take the first steps towards finding help. read the show notes here:... duration:00:43:45 spi 407: how to raise a kid entrepreneur 1/22/2020 more #407: if you’re a parent and an entrepreneur, or a kid and an entrepreneur, or a parent of a kid-entrepreneur, or just want to be part of a fun conversation, this podcast with steve chou is one you’ll want to listen to. steve and i have come together because our kids are both entrepreneurs. we talk about how our kids got started in entrepreneurship, how much influence we have (or don’t have) on their projects, how we deal with other issues of safety and social media and dealing with haters,... duration:00:48:51 spi 406: the 7 dos and donts of email marketing success 1/15/2020 more #406: in this episode, we’ll focus on what to do—and what not to do—to drastically improve your open rates and make email marketing that works. we’ll talk about subject lines and why you need to be spending way more time on them than you think. we’ll also cover why i think most of you aren’t sending enough emails, while also going over that all-important question: how much is too much? read full show notes: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session406 duration:00:42:12 spi 405: gather your community or get left behind—mighty networks and more with gina bianchini 1/8/2020 more #405: i’m super psyched to have a conversation with gina bianchini, the founder of a platform for communities called mighty networks. this tool lets you create your own groups and puts you back in the driver’s seat. you'll learn why people crave community, starting small in creating courses, mighty networks vs. facebook groups, and more! read the full show notes: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session405 duration:00:53:12 spi 404: the 5 dysfunctions of a team with patrick lencioni 1/1/2020 more #404: on today’s episode, we have patrick lencione, author of the bestselling book, the five dysfunctions of a team. i can’t tell you enough how much of a gamechanger it’s been for me as i’ve been trying to build team spi. don’t miss this episode, because the conversation we have is just mind-blowing in so many ways. patrick is chock-full of so many great stories and examples to illustrate what a healthy team looks like, and where so many teams go wrong. read the full show notes at:... duration:00:49:15 spi 403: 2 time management strategies to practice in 2020 12/25/2019 more #403: this episode is short and sweet, but i talk about two key time management strategies that have really helped me make the most of my time. the first is just in time learning, which is the idea that you only learn the things you need in order to take your next step. balancing that is the twenty percent itch rule, which is the idea that i set aside twenty percent of my time each week to experiment and try new things. that way i still get to scratch that itch and explore some new things... duration:00:15:04 spi 402: everyone needs to have a podcast 12/18/2019 more #402: if you’re not already podcasting, i have just one question for you: why?! as i’ve been saying over and over on the smart passive income podcast, podcasting is just the most rapidly growing way to connect directly your listeners. learn more at https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session402. duration:00:34:35 spi 401: jesse cole—the yellow tux guy 12/11/2019 more #401: on spi 401, jessie cole, the yellow tux guy, stops by to share one of the most inspiring and wackiest success stories i've ever heard on this podcast! you'll learn how jessie has created unbelievable and amazing experiences for his fans, and how you can do the same. podcast show notes available here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session401 duration:00:35:57 spi 400: top 10 things i've learned since recording 400 episodes of the spi podcast 12/4/2019 more #400: i share the top 10 things i've learned since recording 400 episodes of the spi podcast. podcast show notes available here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session400 duration:00:36:32 spi 399: last minute cyber monday strategies to get more sales 11/27/2019 more #399: as cyber monday approaches i run through 10 strategies you can use to take advantage of the holiday and drive sales, including the kinds of special bonuses people pay attention to and why free shipping can be the best deal you offer. podcast show notes available here: https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/session399 duration:00:39:36 see more try premium for 30 days live games for all nfl, mlb, nba, & nhl teams commercial-free music no display adsstart free trial sports, music, news and podcasts. hear the audio that matters most to you. listen nowsportsmusicnewspodcastsmore about uscontact uscareerspress productsupportdevices communitiesbrandsbroadcasterspodcasters © 2020 tunein, inc. all rights reserved privacytermssitemap