connect: home reviews editorials & press ed tech links ed tech sites ed tech apps > presentation tools web design tools organization tools mobile apps lesson plans elementary secondary former weekly podcast about me contact mid-coast tech fest episode 21: the season finale! 5/22/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our final episode of the season! we meet up with a ton of special guests to talk about the best tech from the school year and what's in store for next year. if you'd like to be a guest next fall, let us know! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 20: oncore edition 5/14/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 20th episode! we meet up with special guest scott rosencranz to discuss oncore, the ios app for classroom management, feedback, assessment, and so much more. you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 19: the byod edition 4/30/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 19th episode! we meet up with special guest kevin matuseski to discuss the 1:1 classroom and byod (bring your own device) policies. we talk about classroom management, practical implementation, and apps that can help make the process a little bit easier. you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 18: the been team! 4/2/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 18th episode! we meet up with dave and sang from the been team. we talk about their backgrounds, the development and future of been, and of course, education technology! join in the fun! and don't forget to vote for been in the den march madness edtech bracket! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 17: spring has sprung! 3/26/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 17h episode! spring is officially here and we've got some new tech tools to show off! we cover aurasma, been, study blue, and more! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 16: spring break edition! 3/19/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 16th episode, saul's on spring break and mike is rocking along as usual! we explore subtext, stormboard and more great tech tools! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 15: sxswedu edition 3/12/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 15th episode, almost live from south by southwest education festival! we check in with saul to see how the conference went and find out about all the latest and greatest educational technology! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 14: carnaval edition 2/26/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 14th episode featuring saul's triumphant return! we talk about gamesalad, e-pals, and the upcoming special episode at sxswedu! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 13 with team glean! 2/19/2014 2 comments here is the new podcast from our very special 13th episode! we talk with artia and sandra from glean.co about their new company, what they have to offer in the k-12 classroom, and the future of educational technology! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of this post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 2 comments mid-coast tech fest episode 12: valentine's edition 2/13/2014 0 comments here is the new podcast from our 12th episode! we talk about padlet, knowre, and what it's like to celebrate valentine's day as an elementary student! if you have questions, comments, or suggestions for the future, let us know! you can find all the links we talk about at the end of the post. thanks for watching! or if you prefer the audio version, you can subscribe to our podcast on podomatic! 0 comments <<previous mc tech fest here you will find the new, weekly podcast from @nopapernoprob and the ed tech roundup. every week we discuss new tech tools, integration strategies, and more! you can use the rss feed link below to subscribe to the podcast, or find us on podomatic rss feed archives may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 categories all except where noted, content on this site is licensed under a creative commons attribution 3.0 license copyright 2019 | michael karlin