home comments policy subscribe the ethics of immigration symposium: index by chris bertram on june 4, 2014 the first part of our symposium on joseph carens’s the ethics of immigration is now concluded. while we wait for joe to compose his reply, here’s an index of the contributions: chris bertram some worries about carens’s democratic consensus ryan pevnick the theory of social membership brian weatherson movement within and between states kenan malik communities, social anxiety and open borders kieran oberman right arguments, wrong order michael blake social membership and territorial rights patti lenard democratic equality and internal movement david owen on social membership speranta dumitru is carens still advocating open borders sarah fine the argument from democratic principles phillip cole on method jo shaw so what does the ethics of immigration tell us about the european union? update: joe carens’s replies in two parts: part one and part two. share this: tweet { 7 comments } 1 rakesh 06.04.14 at 3:07 pm i am wondering whether there has been any in-depth discussion of the possible brain drain that poor nations would suffer from open borders. it wasn’t mentioned in the one contribution that i have read so far–malik’s. 2 matt 06.04.14 at 3:37 pm i am wondering whether there has been any in-depth discussion of the possible brain drain that poor nations would suffer from open borders. i don’t think there was much discussion of this issue in the symposium itself (though i read a few of the entries only very quickly) but there was some good discussion, especially in the comments by caleb, in this pre-symposium post by chris: http://crookedtimber.org/2014/05/21/basic-rights-membership-and-the-uks-toxic-immigration-debate/ 3 ed herdman 06.04.14 at 7:14 pm @ rakesh: i attempted to open that discussion that in at least one post or two, where i talked about the possibility of people bringing their culture with them. i believe the idea of open borders goes beyond worrying about a brain drain and actually challenges the very notions of nationality, specifically nationality that is strictly defined in certain traditional ways (geographic, cultural, et c.). as a quick example, let’s imagine there are five “nations,” each with one person each (just imagine that this meets the minimum for having a resplendent national culture, so the number could be two, three, or many more). what happens when those people gain proximity, by moving to a closer physical proximity to one another? beyond the economic multipliers, i’d also argue there are cultural and social multipliers as well. just as those five nations grouped together can attain better common defense and technological improvements, perhaps also they can enrich each others’ cultures and even build a shared culture out of the contributions of each. at the same time, the new realities and challenges of shared life change the focus of each original nation’s inhabitants. yes, there are some threats to the traditional culture, but i’d argue that these tend to come from altering a relationship to a unique land, or from ending cultural isolation and challenging a homogeneous culture. none of these things (or the challenges to them) are necessarily bad, but are they the best? of course we have been seeing this process for decades, via mass media and the global market (hollywood, tv, blue jeans, mcdonalds, and coca-cola!) so i wouldn’t just leave it there and pretend there is no bad that comes along with it. however, i would caution against being too strongly enamored of belief in a steady-state culture or nationality, as if people have ever been immune to these kinds of changes except in cases of deprivation. very briefly, another challenge to the “brain drain” worries focuses more on the economic aspect. what would it mean if we had a landmass, split in two by arbitrary political boundaries, but we had people following opportunities (oil industry jobs, a nomadic lifestyle, shopping for the best colleges) that do not respect this boundary? while new vistas do give opportunities for new change, they don’t necessarily challenge one’s conception of group status. 4 djw 06.04.14 at 7:17 pm oberman has a thoughtful and convincing assessment of the brain drain–>immigration restrictions argument here: http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2164893 5 rakesh 06.04.14 at 9:57 pm thank you for the oberman paper, djw. another angle on immigration: achille mbembe on the banlieue riots of 2005–colonial and neo-colonial systems led to migration; they also reinforced the prejudice that led to high unemployment. yet another angle: aviva chomsky has a new book out on immigration; i learned a lot from her last book on the myths of immigration. still another angle: denaturalizing citizenship: a symposium on linda bosniak’s the citizen and the alien and ayelet shachar’s the birthright lottery 6 james wimberley 06.08.14 at 12:31 pm call that an index? it’s a table of contents. for a proper index, prepared at vast expense by a professional indexer, consult 1066 and all that, or edmund bentley’s clerihews. sample from the latter: “unsung. resolve not to be (kellermann, wellington, sherman)” 7 james wimberley 06.08.14 at 2:00 pm ps. e.c. bentley took thoroughness to the limit for his clerihew on stubbs: bishop stubbs was expelled from all his clubs for disparaging the oxford crew in the quarterly review the index references stubbs under: athenaeum bullingdon club chelsea arts club done, not eccentric club escutcheon, blot on form, bad hell-fire club jockey club limit, the m.c.c. ostracism sheffield wednesday football club tailwaggers’ club wootton basset darts club xenophon club there is no page numbering in my early (1951) edition and the entries are not in alphabetical order. borgès would have approved. comments on this entry are closed. recent comments ravedubin on borders fake dave on crises and the case for socialism j-d on crises and the case for socialism faustusnotes on crises and the case for socialism k on borders search contributors chris bertram ∞ harry brighouse ∞ daniel davies ∞ henry farrell ∞ maria farrell ∞ eszter hargittai ∞ kieran healy ∞ john holbo ∞ serene khader ∞ scott mclemee ∞ john quiggin ∞ eric rauchway ∞ ingrid robeyns ∞ corey robin ∞ miriam ronzoni ∞ gina schouten ∞ astra taylor ∞ belle waring ∞ brian weatherson ∞ rich yeselson∞ old growth michael bérubé ∞ niamh hardiman ∞ jon mandle ∞ montagu norman ∞ tedra osell ∞ tom runnacles ∞ micah schwartzman ∞ click on the ∞ symbol next to a name for a list of all of that author's posts. book events jo walton / thessaly books danielle allen / our constitution ken macleod / various felix gilman / the half-made world/the rise of ransom city jack knight and james johnson / the priority of democracy francis spufford / red plenty david graeber / debt: the first 5,000 years erik olin wright / envisioning real utopias george scialabba / what are intellectuals good for? steven teles / the rise of the conservative legal movement charles stross / various china miéville / iron council chris mooney / the republican war on science dani rodrik / one economics, many recipes joseph carens / the ethics of immigration doug henwood / after the new economy levitt & dubner / freakonomics sheri berman / the primacy of politics susanna clarke / jonathan strange & mr norrell yochai benkler / the wealth of networks lumber room 11d 3 quarks daily a fistful of euros atrios balkinization best of both worlds bleeding heart libertarians blood and treasure brad delong cosma shalizi corey robin critical mass daily kos daily nous daniel drezner digby ed felten eric schliesser edge of the american west feminist philosophers firedoglake glenn greenwald the inverse square jacobin jim henley joshua marshall juan cole kevin drum lawrence solum lawyers, guns and money making light marc lynch marginal revolution mark thoma maud newton michael froomkin miriam burstein naked capitalism new left project the new inquiry pharyngula political theory daily review politics, theory and photography russell arben fox slugger o’toole sociological images steven johnson steven poole talk left tapped the virtual stoa tim lambert timothy burke uncertain principles yorkshire ranter