skip to content search... advertiser disclosure us change to uk ✕ news all news airlines aviation credit cards travel tips hotels cards best cards travel cards airline cards rewards cards business cards cash back cards amex cards chase cards capital one cards citi cards card reviews all card stories points & miles beginner guide point valuations amex rewards chase rewards citi rewards credit card guides reviews all reviews flight hotel lounge credit card travel gear travel deals travel tips tpg podcasts purpose project personal finance coronavirus subscribe search advertiser disclosure andrew kunesh how to change or cancel a united airlines flight guides 7m ago the latest see all stories the fed slashed rates to almost zero — what that means for your credit cards news 37m ago 4 dead, 138 sick on coronavirus-stricken cruise ship turned away by multiple ports news 52m ago download zoom backgrounds from tpg for free news 1h ago disney now closed indefinitely: what to know about theme park closures around the world news 1h ago top offers from our partners how we chose ✕ how we chose these cards our points-obsessed staff uses a plethora of credit cards on a daily basis. if anyone on our team wouldn't recommend an offer to a friend or family member, we wouldn't recommend it on the points guy either. our opinions are our own, and have not been reviewed, approved, or endorsed by our advertising partners. best total value learn more terms apply best total value chase sapphire preferred® card current offer 60,000 points learn more group created with sketch. terms apply new offer! learn more terms apply new offer! ink business preferred® credit card current offer 100,000 points learn more group created with sketch. terms apply learn more terms apply the platinum card® from american express current offer earn 60,000 points learn more group created with sketch. terms apply see all cards news view all tsa by the numbers: passenger volume down 90% in coronavirus slump 1h ago new amex business platinum offer: 75,000-point welcome bonus, lower spending requirement 2h ago 5 key elements of the $50 billion airline aid package 3h ago reviews view all still in mint condition: a review of jetblue’s mint business class 2d ago approaching perfection: a review of qatar airways’ qsuite business class on the 777-300er, doha to jfk 4d ago mountain views, $1,000 rooms … and bunk beds: a review of the w aspen 5d ago deals view all don't miss deal alert: alaska airlines fare sale from $25, $99 transcontinental mar 11, 2020 jetblue deal alert: domestic flights have dropped to $24 one-way mar 10, 2020 deal alert: southwest flights on sale, including hawaii from $198 round-trip mar 10, 2020 sign up for our daily newsletter sign up i would like to subscribe to the points guy newsletter and special email promotions. the points guy will not sell your email. see privacy policy. please enter a valid email address please check mailing preferences our monthly valuations what are points worth? how we estimate there isn’t a strict mathematical formula at work here. at some point we’d like to create a system that could calculate a precise value based on award availability, fees, award levels and ease of accrual, but for now these valuations are based on a combination of how much tpg would pay to buy points if given the opportunity, and the overall value i could get from redeeming them. 2.0¢ chase ultimate rewards 2.0¢ american express membership rewards 1.7¢ citi thankyou points 1.8¢ alaska mileage plan 1.4¢ american aadvantage 1.5¢ avios 1.2¢ delta skymiles 1.3¢ united mileageplus 1.7¢ world of hyatt loyalty program 0.8¢ marriott bonvoy see all essential reading the best travel credit cards for 2020 amex platinum 100k, amex gold 50k offers available via cardmatch 5 things to consider before buying your first house all stories how to choose a credit card guides 3h ago all the latest flight waivers and cancellations: an airline-by-airline list news 3h ago airlines should take note of this great cancellation policy news 4h ago clearer skies ahead: the unexpected way that coronavirus is transforming the airline industry news 4h ago who should (and shouldn’t) get the ink business unlimited? guides 5h ago 7 amazing hotels around the world you can book with points guides 5h ago 5 things to know about alaska airlines mileage plan guides 6h ago american airlines staff ratify last post-us airways contract six years after merger news 6h ago full guide to chase offers guides 7h ago the technical challenges of flying near-empty planes news 8h ago read more advertiser disclosure many of the credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which thepointsguy.com receives compensation. this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). this site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. please view our advertising policy page for more information. editorial note: opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. tpg-secondary-digital maximize your travel. search @thepointsguy facebook instagram youtube twitter about jobs at tpg team contact us beginner guide charity shop site map search sign up for our daily newsletter sign up i would like to subscribe to the points guy newsletter and special email promotions. the points guy will not sell your email. see privacy policy. please enter a valid email address please check mailing preferences the credit card offers that appear on the website are from credit card companies from which thepointsguy.com receives compensation. this compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). this site does not include all credit card companies or all available credit card offers. please view our advertising policy page for more information. editorial note: opinions expressed here are the author’s alone, not those of any bank, credit card issuer, airlines or hotel chain, and have not been reviewed, approved or otherwise endorsed by any of these entities. © 2020 the points guy, llc. all rights reserved. a red ventures company. privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use cookie policy