skip navigation menu home browse groups faq about freecycle™ donate sponsors log in/sign up my info my groups my posts newswire history instructional video promo video - lamp mission statement press room sponsors sources and use of funds volunteering leadership board privacy terms of service disclaimer links we like member faq moderator manual coronavirus update: freecycle is a global community, and right now our community is under threat from a global pandemic. while we remain committed to reducing waste and keeping items out of the landfill, our main concern is the health and well-being of our members. we've asked local moderators to refocus local groups on crisis info and updates: local testing sites, shopping restrictions, critical info, and to only allow items --where permitted-- which are essential/basic necessities. click on “contact moderator” at the top of your local group page to pass on info for wider dissemination to other local members. or, put the info in an offer post to the group. additionally, individual posts will be locally moderated to assure that they comply with all governmental requirements. we ask all members to practice extreme care when participating in freecycle. post only essentials, avoid contact by leaving items out, and disinfect items when leaving or picking up. the posting of critical necessities --where permitted-- may enable the homebound to avoid stores, cashiers, atms and direct social contact during this time of great need. if you need to you can contact us here. more information: https://wiki.freecycle.org/covid-19 changing the world one gift at a time™ find a group near you e.g. tucson, arizona welcome! the freecycle network™ is made up of 5,324 groups with 9,067,808 members around the world, and next door to you. it's a grassroots and entirely nonprofit movement of people who are giving (and getting) stuff for free in their own towns and neighborhoods. it's all about reuse and keeping good stuff out of landfills. each local group is moderated by local volunteers (them's good people). membership is free. to sign up, find your community by entering it into the search box above or by clicking on 'browse groups' above the search box. have fun! follow @freecycle copyright ©2020 the freecycle network (http://www.freecycle.org). all rights reserved. freecycle and the freecycle logo are trademarks of the freecycle network in various countries.