mywifequitherjob.com primary menu skip to content home back to start start hereget your store running our story who is steve chou? blog get the latest podcast subscribe & listen toolsproducts i love income reportstrack my online progress the my wife quit her job podcast with steve chou the my wife quit her job podcast is an interview based show where i bring in small business entrepreneurs who are killing it online. but there’s a twist. all of the entrepreneurs on my show bootstrapped their businesses and started their own ventures to improve their lifestyle in some way. to subscribe to this podcast on a mac, iphone, or ipad... click here to subscribe via itunes to subscribe to this podcast on an android device... click here to subscribe via stitcher radio to add this podcast to your feed... click here to access the rss feed click here browse all podcasts organized by category if you've enjoyed the show, then please subscribe and leave a review on itunes by clicking here. the success of my podcast depends on you and every review helps! 297: the financial repercussions of corona virus on our businesses steve chou 1 comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj297tonianderson.mp3podcast: download (duration: 38:24 — 44.2mb) today, we’re doing a special episode because i’m in lock down at home with my entire family and i’ve got nothing else on my schedule for today. and my partner in crime toni anderson also happened to have today free, so i decided to bring her on the show today to talk about how corona virus has affected our businesses. we’ll also discuss what we believe is the right way versus the wrong way to handle your business in a financial crisis. what you’ll learnwhat to do when you’re dealt a bad hand how to turn lemons into lemonade the... listen to this episode 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou steve chou leave a comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/episodemillionairefinal.mp3podcast: download (duration: 19:09 — 22.2mb) if you are living paycheck to paycheck or saddled with debt, you probably think it’s impossible to become a millionaire unless you win the lottery or inherit a large sum of money. and it’s true. if you continue down your current path of spending all the money you earn or working at a dead end job, you’ll never ever become a millionaire. but if you formulate a plan, start now, and develop the right habits, you can easily learn how to become a millionaire within the next decade (or sooner depending on the path you choose... listen to this episode 295: cathy heller on how to make money as a musician steve chou 1 comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj295cathyheller.mp3podcast: download (duration: 53:11 — 61.1mb) today i’m really happy to have cathy heller on the show. cathy is the host of the popular podcast “don’t keep your day job” and she inspires thousands of listeners every day to find purpose in their life and get paid to do what they love. she’s been featured in forbes, entrepreneur magazine, huffpost, the ny times and prior to her podcast, she made a 6 figure living with her music as a songwriter. today, we’re going to explore cathy’s journey and how you can turn your passion into a career. what you’ll learnhow the music licensing industry... listen to this episode 294: grant baldwin on how to scale a niche business by 3x steve chou leave a comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj294grantbaldwin.mp3podcast: download (duration: 51:12 — 58.9mb) today, i’m happy to have my buddy grant baldwin back on the show. grant runs the speaker lab which is a business that teaches others how to get paid and booked to speak. he also has a brand new book out called the successful speaker which i highly recommended. over the past few years, he’s tripled his business using a combination of automated webinars, facebook ads and email marketing and we’re going to dissect his strategies. what you’ll learnhow to increase attendance for a webinar what tools grant uses to manage his sales the conversion rates of live... listen to this episode 293: arri bagah on how to do sms marketing the right way steve chou leave a comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj293arribagah.mp3podcast: download (duration: 44:36 — 51.3mb) today i’m thrilled to have arri bagah on the show. arri and i both spoke at the many chat conversations conference this past year. he is the founder of conversmart which is a company that helps direct to consumer brands generate 6 figures in revenue per month using sms marketing. in this episode, arri and i go in depth on the best ways to implement sms with an ecommerce store. what you’ll learnarri’s background story and how he got started with sms marketing the types of sms messages that convert the best way to acquire new sms subscribers rules when... listen to this episode 292: mari smith on how to build organic facebook traffic today steve chou 1 comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj292marismith.mp3podcast: download (duration: 49:01 — 56.4mb) today i have my friend mari smith on the show. mari is often referred to as the queen of facebook and is widely recognized as one of the world’s foremost experts on facebook marketing. she’s a forbes top social media power influencer, author of the new relationship marketing and co author of facebook marketing: an hour a day. she also teaches businesses and brands on how to properly monetize their social media efforts. in this episode, we’re going to have her teach us how to succeed with facebook today. what you’ll learnhow mari got crowned the queen of facebook how... listen to this episode 291: subtle conversion killers you aren’t accounting for with luke carthy steve chou leave a comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj291lukecarthy.mp3podcast: download (duration: 45:45 — 52.7mb) today i’m happy to have luke carthy on the show. luke is an ecommerce growth consultant specializing in strategy, search & conversion. he’s been helping ecommerce brands grow for over 12+ years and he’s spoken at a variety of events including the last mozcon in 2019. today, we’re going to discuss his strategies for growing an ecommerce brand. what you’ll learnluke’s background and how he got into ecommerce what are some typical mistakes shop owners make? what’s the first thing entrepreneurs neglect with their stores best practices for conversion how to improve sales for your businessother resources and booksluke carthysponsors klaviyo.com – klaviyo... listen to this episode 290: how chubbies makes 8 figures with email marketing featuring erich hellstrom steve chou leave a comment http://traffic.libsyn.com/mywifequitherjob/mwqhj290erichhellstrom.mp3podcast: download (duration: 49:14 — 56.6mb) i’m really happy to have erich hellstrom on the show. erich is a digital marketing strategist for chubbies, a men’s short shorts brand with a huge cult following. erich is in charge of crafting the copy for chubbies social, email, product and events. and even though chubbies clothing isn’t really my style, i’m on their email list because it is hilarious and they do a fantastic job building a loyal brand. in today’s episode, we’re going to dissect their email marketing strategy and learn how to apply these techniques to our own ecommerce businesses. what you’ll learnwhy... listen to this episode posts navigation 1 2 … 38 next → create a profitable online store! a completely free mini course on how to develop a niche ecommerce website in 5 easy steps! learn how to find products to sell and setup your online store. get the free course now! popular featured recent the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products canton fair – my guide to china’s largest wholesale supplier trade show how to start a business with no money. here’s exactly what i’d do how to find the best products to sell online – the ultimate step by step guide 12 things i learned from starting two 7-figure lifestyle businesses how to find china wholesale suppliers and import direct from chinese factories how much it costs to start an online store and should i dropship or carry inventory the best way to find wholesale suppliers, vendors and products for your online store how to approach a new wholesale vendor or supplier when you have no store, no site and no sales how long does it take to start an online business? private label vs retail arbitrage vs dropshipping vs wholesale – 8 ecommerce business models compared bigcommerce vs shopify – a review of the best shopping carts drip vs convertkit vs aweber vs mailchimp – reviewed by a 7 figure blogger how to start an online store, own your own website and sell online shopify seo – the definitive guide to ranking your store in search how to increase your amazon sales rank by 209% with a simple photo tweak poorly designed websites: 9 mistakes ecommerce store owners make (and how to fix them) why good grades often lead to failed businesses how to become an entrepreneur: convincing yourself to take action and the key to behavioral change recurring revenue – how to get repeat customers and why you must look beyond amazon how to start a wordpress blog on a shopify or bigcommerce store and should it be on a subdomain? how to figure out what you should do for a living if you hate your job convertkit vs aweber – a detailed email marketing comparison written by a 7 figure blogger 297: the financial repercussions of corona virus on our businesses recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn 296: 6 ways to become a millionaire in the next 5 years with steve chou amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba 295: cathy heller on how to make money as a musician how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority 294: grant baldwin on how to scale a niche business by 3x 293: arri bagah on how to do sms marketing the right way 292: mari smith on how to build organic facebook traffic today amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? 291: subtle conversion killers you aren’t accounting for with luke carthy shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? where should i begin? read about our entrepreneurship story let's meet up at my ecommerce conference use the products i love and recommend learn how to start an ecommerce store for free learn how to start a blog for free get social about contact twitter facebook pinterest mywifequitherjob.com copyright 2020 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy