start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search the 7 day wake up early challenge 0shares are you not a morning person who hates getting out of bed in the morning? well, you are not alone. in fact, a very small percentage of people are early birds. if i were to ask you to wake up at 5 am every day, you would not even try. but do not worry, no one is trying to make you a 5 am person. instead, if you had to wake up only 1 hour earlier than your usual time, and work on something that you love, would you give it a shot? i am sure you are thinking about considering the challenge. are you willing to take the 7 day wake up early challenge to transform yourself? are you willing to start working towards living your dream? what is the 7 day wake up early challenge? the 7 day challenges you to wake up early little by little each day until you wake up an hour earlier after 7 days. just an hour early, do you ask? yes, that’s right. waking up early is not an easy job for most people. therefore by aiming to wake up just an hour early, you will easily be able to achieve it. just by waking up an hour early for a month, you are adding four 8-hour days to your month. you can use those to pursue your dreams, do what you love, have fun or go on a trip. the most important trick to wake up early is to do something you love after you wake up. you can play the guitar, practice dancing, try learning painting, write a book or satisfy your craving for coffee. whatever it is, make sure you do something that you love. only then will you be successful in continuing waking up early. if not, you will have no purpose to wake up early every day. why should i participate in the challenge? you should give the challenge a shot because waking up an hour early is not very difficult. also, by waking up early you will use the additional one hour to work on the things you are passionate about. so far over 2000 people have taken up the challenge to start working towards their dream. will you? how does the challenge work? it is as simple as it can be. every day you wake up 10 min earlier than the previous day. for example, if you wake up at 9 am, here is your schedule for the next 7 days. day 1: 8:50 am day 2: 8:40 am day 3: 8:30 am day 4: 8:20 am day 5: 8:10 am day 6: 8:00 am day 7: 8:00 am if you wish to wake up more than an hour early, feel free to change the 10 minutes to 20 minutes instead. if you have trouble getting your ass off the bed – follow the 5 simple tricks to wake up early. how do i sign up for the challenge? mention your name and email below to join over 2,000 people who have taken the challenge. to make it more fun, challenge your most laziest friend to take up this challenge. your name your email my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 0shares join the discussion cancel reply comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?