skip to main content skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! the wonder of tech aileen brent / march 2, 2020 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology if you are reading this article during the coronavirus pandemic, please do practice social distancing to help stop the spread of the virus. other wonder of tech articles to check out that may help you with social distancing during the coronavirus pandemic include: 12 ways tech can help with social distancing google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 […] carolyn nicander mohr / february 24, 2020 redbox launches free live tv, no subscription needed you may think of redbox as the dvd rental service with over 41,000 kiosks at many of your favorite stores. but redbox broadened its horizons this past week with the launch of redbox free live tv, offering a variety of streaming videos you can watch on your phone, tablet, tv, and computer. what is redbox […] carolyn nicander mohr / february 17, 2020 google maps celebrates 15 years with new features! this month marks the 15th anniversary of google maps and google is celebrating in style! google maps has updated its app for iphone and android with new features and a new icon to bring the app into the next 15 years. if you use google maps, be sure to update the app to make getting […] « previous page next page » footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!