the tech edvocate top menu apps home page home page five (no sidebar) home page four home page three home page two home tech2 icons [no sidebar] left sidbear page my account my speaking page newsletter sign up confirmation newsletter unsubscription our brands page example protected content register request a product review shop shortcodes examples signup start here governance careers contact us the edvocate topics write for us advertise main menu start here our brands governance dr. lynch’s personal website careers write for us contact us books edupedia topics assistive technology child development tech digital & mobile technology early childhood & k-12 edtech edtech futures edtech news edtech policy & reform edtech startups & businesses higher education edtech online learning & elearning parent & family tech personalized learning product reviews advertise request a product review apps tech edvocate awards the edvocate the edvocate podcast the tech edvocate start here our brands governance dr. lynch’s personal website my speaking page careers write for us contact us books edupedia topics assistive technology child development tech digital & mobile technology early childhood & k-12 edtech edtech futures edtech news edtech policy & reform edtech startups & businesses higher education edtech online learning & elearning parent & family tech personalized learning product reviews advertise request a product review apps tech edvocate awards the edvocate the edvocate podcast why you must ask about cyber-security your children: the new personal identity target back on track with credit recovery the future of teacher professional development go ahead, blame your principal for the data breach edtech product validation made easy using technology to engage teachers in faculty meetings in the wake of teacher shortages, schools are turning to virtual teachers civics apps, tools, and resources that we love 3 best practices for implementing adaptive assessments best of the best listsearly childhood & k-12 edtechhigher education edtech home›best of the best lists›the tech edvocate’s list of 50 must-read k-12 edtech blogs the tech edvocate’s list of 50 must-read k-12 edtech blogs by matthew lynch january 17, 2017 7 spread the love *the tech edvocate is pleased to produce its “best of the best” resource lists. these lists provide our readers with rankings for edtech related blogs, twitter accounts, influencers, products, etc. these lists are meant to be fluid, and for that reason, they are regularly updated to provide up to the moment information.* keeping up with changing technology in the classroom is almost a full-time job on its own! that’s why subscribing to a few good edtech blogs is a convenient and time-saving way to remain knowledgeable about this constantly evolving landscape. edtech blogs exist for almost every purpose you can imagine. there are blogs dedicated to the teaching of math, reading, science and virtually any other discipline that you can think of. there are blogs about coding and blogs about blogging, geared towards every grade level from kindergarten all the way up through high school. but how do you know which of these are worth your time? we decided to do this work for you. generally, there are four key qualities of a good edtech blog. they must be: activity (25%). information should be updated regularly to reflect the very latest trends in edtech. originality (25%). it should add value with content that’s different from all the other blogs out there. helpfulness (25%). a good edtech blog should teach you a new skill, direct you to a useful resource, or at least get you to think in a new way about something. authority (25%). the author/authors have the authority and credentials to blog about the topic of edtech. each category was assigned an equal weight in our evaluation. they were averaged together to determine the final score in order to come up with our list of the top 50. edsurge. this blog is updated daily with current educational news. recent articles explored the role of teachers in the evaluation of technology and the role of edtech in educational research. score: activity 25, originality 24, helpfulness 25, authority 25 total score: 99% twitter: @edsurge email: feedback@edsurge.com edx blog. the blog provides free courses and other professional development resources for technology leaders. recent topics include the future of artificial intelligence and the use of social media in job searches. score: activity 25, originality 24, helpfulness 24.5, authority 25 total score: 98.5% twitter: @edxonline i’m a girl who codes. the site is full of inspiring stories about young women who have found success in the world of coding. you will find stories of young women who used coding to start businesses or to find hope in homelessness. score: activity 25, originality 24, helpfulness 24, authority 25 total score: 98% email: communications@girlswhocode.com twitter: @girlswhocode web 2.0 classroom. renowned for his insightful tweets and retweets, steve anderson blogs about powerful ways to use technology in the classroom. most recently, he posted about the power of ted talks and how to teach kids to evaluate news sources. score: activity 25, originality 24, helpfulness 24.5, authority 25 total score: 97.5% email: steven.anderson@web20classroom.org twitter: @web20classroom free e-learning resources. advice and practical suggestions for instructors of online courses. this blog will be helpful for administrators seeking meaningful professional development opportunities for staff. score: activity 24, originality 24, helpfulness 24.5, authority 25 total score: 97% twitter: @elearnindustry cool cat teacher. vicki davis interweaves her practical suggestions for student engagement with profound reflections on what it means to be a teacher. for a shot of affirmation, this is the blog to visit. score: activity 25, originality 23, helpfulness 23.9, authority 25 total score: 96.9% twitter: @coolcatteacher a principal’s reflections. eric sheninger reflects on digital leadership and how it affects parental communication and student and faculty engagement. he connects trends in technology with changes in the larger culture. score: activity 25, originality 23, helpfulness 23, authority 25 total score: 96% twitter: @e_sheninger iste edtekhub. a recognized leader in educational technology, iste analyzes current trends in areas such as coding and virtual reality. updated daily, the blog will keep you up-to-date on the changing world of edtech. score: activity 25, originality 23, helpfulness 23, authority 24.5 total score: 95.5% email: iste@iste.org twitter: @isteconnects 9. free technology for teachers. richard byrne provides an array of resources, such as free apps and other tools, to help teachers find cost-effective solutions for introducing technology in the classroom. score: activity 25, originality 22, helpfulness 22.9, authority 24 total score: 93.9% twitter: @rmbyrne edudemic. the sheer volume of resources available at this site will blow you away. it’s a gold mine of new ideas and lesson plans. score: activity 25, originality 22, helpfulness 22, authority 24 total score: 93% email: contact@edudemic.com twitter: @edudemic teacher tech. a certified google trainer, alice keeler will help you keep up with google’s constant expansions. she’s exceptionally skilled in the use of google classroom. score: activity 24, originality 22, helpfulness 22.9, authority 24 total score: 92.9% twitter: @alicekeeler kleinspiration. author and award-winning educator erin klein provides practical strategies to increase student achievement and engagement with technology. she earns top marks for her engaging and relevant website. score: activity 22, originality 23, helpfulness 22.9, authority 24 total score: 92% twitter: @kleinerin the nerdy teacher. nicholas provenzano shares his ideas about being a connected educator. recent articles outline how to create a meaningful makerspace program. score: activity 25, originality 21, helpfulness 21.5, authority 23 total score: 91.9% twitter: @thenerdyteacher email: onenerdyteacher@gmail.com kathy schrock’s kaffeeklatsch. educational technologist kathy schrock shares her discoveries and insights about educational technology and its impact in the classroom. recent blog posts offer ideas for using pokemon go in the classroom and for creating 360° images with a cell phone. score: activity 25, originality 21, helpfulness 21.5, authority 23 total score: 90.5% twitter: @kathyschrock email: kathy@kathyschrock.net tech & learning. the bloggers at tech & learning ponder issues around technology as well as practical tips for making the most of google classroom and the integration of stem. one of their recent offerings: an exploration of whether or not paper has become obsolete. score: activity 24, originality 21, helpfulness 21.5, authority 23 total score:89.5% twitter: @techlearning getting smart. use this blog to follow professional development events and listen to podcasts about educational technology and leadership. recent topics include school transformation and leadership development in the classroom. score: activity 22, originality 22, helpfulness 22, authority 23 total score: 89% email: info@gettingsmart.com twitter: @getting_smart dangerously irrelevant. this blog addresses issues of social and ethical concern as they relate to the use of technology in the classroom. frequent topics include the development of self-actualization and leadership. score: activity 24, originality 21, helpfulness 21, authority 22 total score: 88% twitter: @mcleod email: dr.scott.mcleod@gmail.com learning in hand. tony vincent’s technology blog has been around since the 1990s, and it’s still a treasure trove of advice and resources today. recently he provides tips for teacher ipad use and formative assessment tools. score: activity 24, originality 20.5, helpfulness 21, authority 22 total score: 87.5% email: tony@learninginhand.com twitter: @tonyvincent speed of creativity. wesley fryer documents his work with students and educators around the globe in the creative use of multimedia. recently he offered a digital literacy challenge to create an information filter bot. score: activity 24, originality 20.5, helpfulness 20.5, authority 22 total score: 87% email: wfryer@pobox.com twitter: @wfryer high techpectations. innovation consultant lucy gray curates resources, conferences, and professional development opportunities for innovative educators. her posts include weekly roundups of new edtech resources. score: activity 23, originality 20, helpfulness 21, authority 22.5 total score: 86.5% twitter: @elemenous 21.class tech tips. edtech consultant dr. monica burns provides a rundown of all the latest technology tips and tricks. recently she demonstrated an app called kinvolved for taking attendance, as well as the annotation of images using an ipad. score: activity 22, originality 20, helpfulness 21.5, authority 22.5 total score: 86% email: info@classtechtips.com twitter: @classtechtips learning with ‘e’s. steve wheeler, a professor of educational technology, explores our changing culture and the ways teachers must adapt to it. his blog features periodic interviews with education influencers. score: activity 20, originality 20, helpfulness 22.5, authority 23 total score: 85.5% twitter: @timbuckteeth the innovative educator. lisa nielsen’s daily blog posts focus on ways to make education more relevant for students by embracing technology and channeling their passions. recent topics include how to teach students to evaluate the accuracy of the news, and how to tell if your students are digital learners. score: activity 20, originality 19.5, helpfulness 22.5, authority 23 total score: 85% twitter: @innovativeedu educational technology and mobile learning. med kharbach shares free tutorials and reviews of apps and tools. topics include how to convert pdfs to editable text and basic google classroom tips. score: activity 24, originality 18, helpfulness 21, authority 21.5 total score: 84.5% twitter: @medkh9 steve hargadon. a pioneer in the field of educational technology, steve hargadon offers timely suggestions for things like turning pcs into chromebooks and even has the occasional fun giveaway. articles focus on edtech as a vehicle to drive meaningful learning. score: activity 25, originality 17.5, helpfulness 21, authority 20.5 total score: 84% email: steve@hargadon.com twitter: @stevehargadon tcea. officially the blog for the texas computer education association, this website is crammed with great ideas and resources for educators everywhere. most recently, it offers tips on photo editing and a roundup of leadership courses. score: activity 24, originality 17, helpfulness 21.9, authority 21 total score: 83.9% email: tceaoffice@tcea.org twitter: @tcea catlin tucker. this blog offers a candid exploration of different solutions for blended learning. recent offerings explore the pros and cons of co-teaching. score: activity 19, originality 22, helpfulness 20.5, authority 22 total score: 83.5% twitter: @catlin_tucker the power of educational innovation. school administrator liz davis chronicles her adventures in leading technology innovation in her school and her region. her recent posts tell a story of inspiring students to lead through an edcamp program. score: activity 18, originality 22, helpfulness 21, authority 21.5 total score: 82% cosn blog. the official blog of the consortium for school networking presents occasional “trusted learning environment” articles, in which they focus on the technology implementation efforts of member school districts. this will inspire you to think of ways you can make your own school a “trusted learning environment.” score: activity 18, originality 21.5, helpfulness 20.5, authority 21.5 total score: 81.5% email: membership@cosn.org twitter: @cosn hack education. this blog discusses how current policies and issues impact the future of education technology. recent articles ponder the potential effects of the trump presidency on edtech. score: activity 24, originality 18.5, helpfulness 18.7, authority 20 total score: 81.2% email: mail@audreywatters.com twitter: @hackeducation my paperless classroom. a tech integration specialist presents his real-life trials and triumphs. he also shares ideas for unique makerspace projects. score: activity 17, originality 18.5, helpfulness 18.5, authority 20 total score: 81% twitter: @sampatue instructional tech talk. jeff herb presents a potpourri of videos, podcasts, and articles about the effective use of technology tools. recently he has shared strategies for using ozobot, as well as tips for the use of online videos in the classroom. score: activity 17, originality 21.5, helpfulness 21.5, authority 20.5 total score: 80.5 email: jeff@lightupedu.com twitter: @jeffherb emerging ed tech. daily posts include thoughts on how to use technology to improve reading. articles focus on edtech as a vehicle to drive meaningful learning. score: activity 24, originality 18.5, helpfulness 19, authority 18.5 total score: 80% twitter: @emergingedtech middleweb. this blog focuses on the integration of technology in grades 4-8. it offers tools to revamp organizational systems and deepen student connections. score: activity 24, originality 18.5, helpfulness 18.5, authority 18.5 total score: 79.5% email: ask.middleweb@gmail.com twitter: @middleweb e-learning provocateur. australian e-learning manager ryan tracy blogs about e-learning as a route to deeper thinking. he frequently ponders “cognitive reality:” the influence and potential of virtual and augmented reality. score: activity 18, originality 20.5, helpfulness 20, authority 20.5 total score: 79% twitter: @ryantracey tammy’s technology tips for teachers. tammy worcester works independently as an instructional technology specialist and curates hundreds of tools, tips, and ideas on her website. she is especially savvy at tricks for using google apps in unique ways in the classroom. score: activity 25, originality 18, helpfulness 18, authority 17.9 total score: 78.9% email: tammy@tammytang.com twitter: @tammyworcester cycles of learning. ramsay musallam relates how he uses unique approaches to technology to make instruction more meaningful to students. definitely a blog worth checking out. score: activity 18, originality 20, helpfulness 20, authority 20.5 total score: 78.5% twitter: @mneedleman start with a question. digital learning specialist kerry gallagher shares tips for safe and ethical use of technology in the classroom. recent provocative topics include the spread of fake news and the prevalence of “sexting” among teens. score: activity 16, originality 20, helpfulness 21, authority 21 total score: 78% email: kerryhawk02@yahoo.com twitter: @kerryhawk02 ed tech strategies. doug levin blogs about the current legal and political scene, and how policy affects the availability of technology in the classroom. most recently, he discussed possible fcc changes and how schools will be affected. score: activity 15, originality 20, helpfulness 21, authority 21 total score: 77% email: dlevin@edtechstrategies.com twitter: @douglevin center for digital education. this blog offers regular updates to news about efforts to implement technology in public and private schools. warnings about email scams and posts about mobile devices in schools will keep you up-to-date on issues affecting edtech. score: activity 23, originality18, helpfulness 18, authority 17.5 total score: 76.5% twitter: @centerdigitaled on an e-journey with generation y. an australian information technology teacher shares her ideas and experiences around fostering global connections in the classroom. she is especially masterful in her use of skype as a tool to teach about culture. score: activity 18, originality 20, helpfulness 19, authority 19 total score: 76% email: mirtschin@gmail.com twitter: @murcha technology bits bytes and nibbles. a self-described “educational futurist,” cyndi danner-kuhn shares specific ideas and strategies for integrating technology into all aspects of learning. most recently, she wrote about how to integrate google apps into the rigor relevance framework. score: activity 23, originality 18, helpfulness 17, authority 17.5 total score: 75.5% twitter: @cyndidannerkuhn 44.. educational technology guy. david andrade shows teachers a variety of options to access free tools and resources for effective technology use in the classroom. recently he shared a framework to help education leaders pilot new technology. score: activity 23, originality 18, helpfulness 16.8, authority 17.5 total score: 75.3% twitter: @daveandcori edtech roundup. just as its name implies, this is a weekly “roundup” of all the latest edtech news and developments. this blog is ideal simply for staying informed about breakthroughs and trends. score: activity 24, originality 17.5, helpfulness 16.5, authority 17.5 total score: 75% email: mike.carlin@gmail.com twitter: @etroundup ask a tech teacher. technology teacher jacqui murray provides lesson plans for technology integration and tips on practical matters such as backing up files and speeding up your computer. she also curates a variety of helpful resources. score: activity 22, originality 18, helpfulness 17, authority 17 total score: 74% email: askatechteacher@gmail.com twitter: @askatechteacher history tech. social studies teacher and technology guru glenn wiebe ponders the many ways in which technology can give students a deeper understanding of history. among other things, he offers ideas to help students understand the interconnectedness of history and current events. score: activity 25, originality 17, helpfulness 15.5, authority 16 total score: 73.5% email: glennw@essdack.org twitter: @glennw98 assorted stuff. educational technology specialist tim stahmer reflects on the need for change and reform in public schools and suggests relevant literature. score: activity 16, originality 19, helpfulness 20, authority 18.5 total score: 72.5% twitter: @timstahmer yes, tech! a technology instructional coach, pam shoemaker, blogs about the ways in which technology is changing the face of education. she will inspire you to take on challenges such as learning to code or becoming a google trainer. score: activity 21, originality 19.5, helpfulness 17, authority 14.5 total score: 72% email: pamelashoemaker@wlcsd.org twitter: @shoemap teaching with technology. bethany petty shares tips and ideas that she learned from the trenches of her own “flipped, blended and gamified classroom.” posts range from the philosophical (global collaboration) to the practical (creating “view only” folders in google drive). score: activity 21, originality 19, helpfulness 17, authority 14.5 total score: 71.5% twitter: @bethanypetty as you can see, there is no shortage of great edtech blogs to choose from! subscribe to those that meet your needs best, and watch your knowledge of edtech expand in no time. spread the love tagsedtechedtechchatelearningsteamstem previous article is personalized learning the future of education? next article using gamification in teacher professional development matthew lynch related articles more from author best of the best listshigher education edtech top 7 educational technology tools, apps, and resources for higher education july 20, 2017 by matthew lynch early childhood & k-12 edtech 5 must have classroom management apps, tools, and resources october 15, 2017 by matthew lynch early childhood & k-12 edtech integrating technology into the classroom, part ii october 20, 2016 by matthew lynch digital & mobile technologyearly childhood & k-12 edtechedtech newshigher education edtech come for the computers, stay for the books: libraries are re-booting to become the tech hub for schools june 23, 2017 by matthew lynch digital & mobile technologyedtech news how big is the edtech marketplace? january 16, 2017 by matthew lynch best of the best lists 11 websites, apps, and games for the steam classroom july 3, 2017 by matthew lynch 7 comments ted brown 18 january, 2017 at 19:20 reply i commnd you for the work done in sensitizing the public on important blogs to visit and information contained. i must confess that i have gained alot and i am yet to leranmore from reading your articles. thanks mathew for the excellent job done. tiffanie bosson 18 january, 2017 at 19:35 reply that was a very outstanding article. i must say i have gained a lot by reading this article. blogs provide numerous information which if deciphered well can change the way things are done in the education sector edtech being the key priority. tip of the week: glenn’s 10 favorite history blogs | history tech 23 january, 2017 at 16:27 reply […] start with a little self-promotion. a recent tech edvocate article lists history tech as one of 50 must read edtech blogs. so . . . i’m glad you’re here and hope that you continue to find helpful stuff you […] filmes online no pc 5 june, 2017 at 10:13 reply os integrantes foram convidados a amparar um celulose 2d no entanto certo acetato 3d no decorrer era dentre 3 semanas. http://www.orthoscores.nl/cgi-bin/fpg.cgi казино и рестора 29 october, 2017 at 07:54 reply this is a great tip especially to those fresh to the blogosphere. simple but very precise info… thank you for sharing this one. a must read article! kelli 30 june, 2018 at 20:05 reply excellent website you have here but i was curious if you knew of any message boards that cover the same topics talked about in this article? i’d really like to be a part of online community where i can get opinions from other experienced individuals that share the same interest. if you have any suggestions, please let me know. thank you! matthew lynch 30 june, 2018 at 23:02 reply sorry, no none that i think of. leave a reply cancel reply early childhood & k-12 edtech 7 must have edtech apps, tools, and resources for preschoolers best of the best lists the 10 best phones for kids of 2020: the top phones meant for children edtech startups & businesses should my edtech company sell to teachers, schools, or districts? login & registration register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org newsletter signup for the tech edvocate newsletter and have the latest in edtech news and opinion delivered to your email address! email address: first name last name leave this field empty if you're human: recent popular comments why you must ask about cyber-security by matthew lynch march 27, 2020 your children: the new personal identity target by matthew lynch march 26, 2020 back on track with credit recovery by matthew lynch march 25, 2020 the future of teacher professional development by matthew lynch march 24, 2020 go ahead, blame your principal for the data breach by matthew lynch march 23, 2020 20 top virtual reality apps that are changing education by matthew lynch march 11, 2017 why mobile technology enhances instruction by matthew lynch december 14, 2016 7 ways technology is impacting modern education by matthew lynch march 4, 2017 what is the future of online learning in higher education by matthew lynch april 2, 2018 digital literacy is the most important lifelong learning tool by matthew lynch december 30, 2017 mani_bnl on march 23, 2020 what is the future of online learning in higher education i have bookmarked your ... 3d printing, drones, and ai — the future of stem education? | neo blog on march 19, 2020 the rise of the robot teacher […] we don’t know ... 3 skills your kids should learn for a better future - south florida reporter on march 15, 2020 how to teach kids to communicate in this digital age […] them. this means ... cj brieeze on march 8, 2020 3 gamification best practices to spark student attention and ignite interest we should be teaching ... how corporate training is changing in 2020 - knowledgecity on march 4, 2020 how does corporate elearning lead to organizational growth? […] are some of ... edtech policy & reform edtech policy & reform how much bias is okay in your school? spread the lovethe algorithm has proven itself to be a handy tool when it comes to solving education problems. it’s also not without bias. you may be wondering how some ... edtech policy & reformfeaturedfresh edtech should complement good pedagogy, not attempt to replace it spread the lovethe newest generation of edtech is downright amazing; it’s no wonder that various education stakeholders might be a little excited about its potential to transform education. however, edtech ... digital & mobile technologyedtech policy & reformfeaturedfresh how to teach kids to communicate in this digital age spread the lovewhen even the youngest children are spending the equivalent of a full work day looking at screens, it is perhaps no surprise that parents are wondering how to ... edtech futuresedtech policy & reform 3 reasons why india will be a leader in the edtech industry in the 21st ... spread the loveaccording to a joint report by kpmg and google, the online education industry is expected to grow at a healthy rate of 8 times to become a $1.96b ... early childhood & k-12 edtechedtech policy & reformfeaturedfresh how does technology immersion shape the brain? spread the lovedo you wonder what all of the screen time we have is really doing to our brains? as edtech continues to rise in prominence throughout the world, this ... edtech startups & businesses edtech startups & businesses edtech product validation made easy spread the lovethe process of developing an edtech product and bringing it to the market is the same as reaching any long-term goal. you have a concept, and then you ... edtech startups & businesses your position in the education marketplace isn’t doomed spread the lovewhat edtech entrepreneur doesn’t dream of the time they’ll be able to spend their days collecting revenue from their must-have education solution? it’s entirely possible, but it’s not ... edtech startups & businesses selling edtech to school district leadership spread the loveedtech provides classroom solutions. getting your product into the right hands, however, requires savvy strategies. these strategies are more than sales techniques. they’re about getting to know the ... edtech startups & businesses focus your edtech purchasing process spread the lovehow many times have the teachers at your school been surprised with a software adoption or tech equipment they didn’t really need and probably won’t use? it happens ... edtech startups & businesses how to get your next-gen edtech startup funded spread the lovethe market for edtech startups is extremely saturated. there is a bevy of next-gen elearning startups out there looking to get a piece of an increasingly stretched market ... digital equity digital equity it is time for the edtech industry to stop denying its equity and race problem spread the lovethe edtech industry is dominated by white employees, white leaders, and white entrepreneurs. if you doubt this statement, just attend an edtech conference. admittedly, educators and others don’t ... digital equity how oer can help overcome the higher education equity barrier spread the lovethe cornerstone of the american dream is the ability to succeed in life regardless of one’s family of origin. and, for most people, that requires a college education. ... edtech futures early childhood & k-12 edtechedtech futures in the wake of teacher shortages, schools are turning to virtual teachers spread the loveteaching was once a greatly respected position, and today, morally it still seems to be of high value to many americans. institutionally, however, teaching no longer seems to ... early childhood & k-12 edtechedtech futures we need a netflix of education spread the lovethe difference between having access to knowledge and having such knowledge primed for your discovery and consumption is huge. just because things are available somewhere for someone to ... edtech futures 9 examples of the internet of things in education spread the lovethe internet of things (iot) has changed everything in almost every sector of industry and community, and nowhere is that more apparent than in the educational sector. from ... edtech futures 7 ways holographic technology will make learning more fun spread the loveadvancements in technology brought teachers the interactive whiteboard, 3d printers, and interactive desks and walls. one of the next developments will be holographic telepresence. holographic telepresence systems are ... edtech futures don’t forget about it: how spaced repetition and microlearning boost memory spread the loveresearch on the forgetting curve has revealed some shocking statistics. within one hour, people will have forgotten an average of 50 % of new information. within 24 hours, ... about us since technology is not going anywhere and does more good than harm, adapting is the best course of action. that is where the tech edvocate comes in. we plan to cover the prek-12 and higher education edtech sectors and provide our readers with the latest news and opinion on the subject. from time to time, i will invite other voices to weigh in on important issues in edtech. we hope to provide a well-rounded, multi-faceted look at the past, present, the future of edtech in the us and internationally. we started this journey back in june 2016, and we plan to continue it for many more years to come. i hope that you will join us in this discussion of the past, present and future of edtech and lend your own insight to the issues that are discussed. newsletter signup for the tech edvocate newsletter and have the latest in edtech news and opinion delivered to your email address! email address: first name last name leave this field empty if you're human: contact us the tech edvocate 5322 markel road, suite 104 richmond, va 23230 (601) 630-5238 advocatefored@gmail.com follow us copyright © 2020 matthew lynch. all rights reserved.