start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on december 3, 2019 the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email “i know that if i work harder, my boss will notice and give me a raise.” that’s what you tell yourself as you leave the office at 7 pm five days a week. but, will your boss notice? he might, but this will be a slow and painful process. most companies won’t go out of their way to notice great employees. it’s up to you to toot your own horn the right way. i hate to break it to you. but, if you’ve worked at your position for over a year without a raise, you’re doing something wrong. don’t worry, i’ve failed in the past and still continue to do so. plus, asking for a raise isn’t easy. it wasn’t that long ago when i was fresh out of college and clueless to how i’d negotiate my salary. fortunately, i’d adopted habits that helped me get a raise. and, if these tactics have worked for me, i’m confident they’ll work for you too. ready to start making big bucks? if so, here’s your guide on how to ask for the raise you deserve. 1. prepare before asking for a raise you’re feeling pumped. you’ve worked hard for over a year and know that you deserve a raise. but, before you march into your boss’s office (or cubicle) do your homework. by this, i’m referring to doing some research on what your average salary is for your role. don’t overdo this–all you need is a ballpark estimate to what the average salary is in your industry. go to sites like glassdoor, salary, and payscale to get this information. then type in your role or company name in their search bar. within a few minutes, you’ll have a rough idea for what you should be getting paid. advertising take a note for how big the gap is from the average salary and what you’re currently earning. if your salary is on the lower end, don’t worry, use this as your motivation to get paid better. be honest with yourself for what skills you’re offering to your employer. if you’re falling behind in any area, read a book or take a course to improve. another option is to ask your boss for extra work to gain more experience. make it your priority to improve, so that you stay sharp with your skills. 2. know the value you bring if you’ve never negotiated your salary, i’m betting that it’ll be at the lower end of the industry average. i know how frustrating this is because i’ve been there. i’d envy others who were getting paid more than i was–especially since i was working hard. but, having this type of mindset won’t do you any good. if you’re unhappy with your current salary, it’s because you don’t know your worth. so, before you ask your boss for your raise, be clear on what value you bring to your employer. to know where you stand, write down the relevant skills you bring to your team. for example, as a web designer, a valuable skill can be creating great logos. write a list of 5 to 10 similar skills that can help you stand out. also, research what top skills are in demand for your current job and make improvements here. when you’re valuable, people will take notice. more importantly, knowing you’re valuable will help you negotiate your salary better. 3. earn a meeting with your boss do you get the “chills” randomly walking to your boss and asking for a raise? you should because that’s a bad way to ask for something. would you reach out to someone you’d met at a conference 6 months ago and out of the blue ask for a favor? i hope not. they’d most likely turn you down. that’s because you haven’t earned the right to ask for a favor. like this scenario, don’t randomly walk up to your boss asking for a raise. instead, work your way up. ask your boss how he/she thinks you’re performing a few times each month. then ask what’s needed for you to get a raise. advertising repeat this process until you’re confident with how to get a raise. this will put you in your boss’s mind when it’s time to give a raise. 4. create your perfect timing have you ever watched a movie where the character knew the perfect time to do something? take love stories for example, when the man knows the perfect time to ask a woman out. you hear the right music on the background during the perfect night. the reality is that in life, perfect times rarely exist. this doesn’t mean that you should walk up to your boss tomorrow and ask for raise. instead, be aware that the only perfect time that’ll exist is when you do your best to prepare. do some planning around where you’d ask your boss. if he/she travels a lot during certain months, avoid asking during this time. pick a day and time that you know your boss will have the most availability. add a meeting to the calendar with your boss to discuss your promotion. this way you’ll avoid rushing and increase your odds at getting heard. 5. increase your odds at success thinking like your boss knowing your customer doesn’t only apply for salespeople. the same concept applies to you–except think of your boss as your customer. by doing this, you can expect what he/she will say to you. then you can prepare for possible outcomes. if your boss were to ask you why you deserve a raise, you wouldn’t fumble. you’d summarize 2 to 3 key points without hesitation. think of your top three possible scenarios based on what you know about your boss. then record yourself discussing your top 3 scenarios. 6. figure out your company’s policies waiting each year for your raise is a huge mistake. in case you’re wondering why–not all companies have the same policies for getting a raise. some do a performance review on an annual basis, while others do so on a quarterly or semi-annual. to familiarize yourself with your company’s policies, check out their hr web portal. advertising if you can’t find the answers you’re looking for, call your company’s hr department. your goal should be to determine what’s the required timeframe to ask for a raise. once you know this timeframe, you can prepare for the ask. 7. level-up your emotional intelligence emotional intelligence is a skill you need to master. why? the last thing you’d want to do is getting upset if you don’t end up getting the raise you’d hope for. this would only make your situation awkward and less likely to get a future promotion. mastering your emotions allows you to collaborate with others better–increasing your odds for success. daniel goleman argues in his book emotional intelligence: why it can matter more than iq that emotional intelligence is as important as your iq. research shows that people who manage their emotions better perform better at school. emotionally intelligent people are socially skilled, able to empathize with others better. improving your emotional intelligence isn’t easy. but, changing the way you perceive failure and manage stress will help you improve. to take failure less personal, view it as a learning opportunity. this will help you learn from your mistakes and avoid making them twice. to better manage your stress, start meditating. i bet that you’re thinking meditation isn’t for you. after all, you’re not a monk who sits quietly in a room for hours. meditation isn’t only for the selected few–it’s for everyone. even if you don’t know how to meditate, you can learn from apps or online videos. by practicing meditation enough you’ll eventually reap its benefits. here’s a 5-minute guide to meditation: anywhere, anytime. 8. don’t take rejection personally you can be as prepared as possible and still fail. but, don’t take it personally. advertising often it’s because your company doesn’t have the budget to do so. while you can’t expect the unexpected, you can prepare for it. here are some questions to ask yourself before you run off to your manager asking for a promotion: how long can i hold off if i get rejected for a promotion? how has my company been performing in the past year? do i deserve a promotion? if you get rejected for a promotion, ask to revisit your performance within 3 to 6 months. be sure to get details on what’s required to earn a promotion so that you can work towards it. the worst case scenario is that your company isn’t willing to give you a promotion. if this is your scenario, find a way to escape this environment. bonus tips if you’re looking for extra tips to ask for a raise, this is a nice infographic to go through:[1] get paid the money you deserve imagine waking up each morning excited to perform your best at your job. your role didn’t change but for the first time, you felt heard by your manager. after 6 months of working hard, you got the raise you’d hoped for. the best part is that you didn’t have to stay in the office till 7 pm to earn it. i know you wish that this scenario was your reality. it wasn’t that long ago when i was earning a low salary and afraid to ask for what i deserved. but, after trial and error, i managed to get many raises and switch careers. why am i telling you this? because if i was able to get my raise, so can you. you’ll need to work harder than most people and make sacrifices along the way, but it’ll be worth the effort. except for this time, you’ll be working hard in the right areas. think of this post as your mini-blueprint to getting the raise you deserve. be honest with yourself and focus on improving in the areas you’re weakest. before you know it, one day you’ll wake up working in a job you love getting paid what you deserve. more tips on asking for a raise and promotion 10 things you should and shouldn’t say in a salary negotiation how to negotiate salary skilfully without being pushy how to get promoted when you feel stuck in your current position featured photo credit: amy hirschi via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ resume.io: how to ask for a raise without coming off as entitled share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next meditation can change your life: the power of mindfulness rejection is no longer painful if we look at it differently how to negotiate salary skilfully without being pushy advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated advertising advertising work smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) brian lee chief of product management at lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email taking your work to the next level means setting and keeping career goals. a career goal is a targeted objective that explains what you want your ultimate profession to be. defining career goals is a critical step to achieving success. you need to know where you’re going in order to get there. knowing what your career goals are isn’t just important for you–it’s important for potential employers too. the relationship between an employer and an employee works best when your goals for the future and their goals align. saying, “oh, i don’t know. i’ll do anything,” makes you seem indecisive, and opens you up to taking on ill-fitting tasks that won’t lead you to your dream life. career goal templates’ one-size-fits-all approach won’t consider your unique goals and experiences. they won’t help you stand out, and they may not reflect your full potential. in this article, i’ll help you to define your career goals with smart goal framework, and will provide you with a list of examples goals for work and career. table of contents how to define your career goal with smart why you need an individual development plan 40 examples of goals for work & career for changing a job for switching career path for getting a promotion for acing a job interview career goal setting faqs summary more tips about setting work goals how to define your career goal with smart instead of relying on a generalized framework to explain your vision, use a tried-and-true goal-setting model. smart is an acronym for “specific, measurable, action-oriented, realistic with timelines.”[1] the smart framework demystifies goals by breaking them into smaller steps. helpful hints when setting smart career goals: advertising start with short-term goals first. work on your short-term goals, and then progress the long-term interests.[2] short-term goals are those things which take 1-3 years to complete. long-term goals take 3-5 years to do. as you succeed in your short-term goals, that success should feed into accomplishing your long-term goals. be specific, but don’t overdo it. you need to define your career goals, but if you make them too specific, then they become unattainable. instead of saying, “i want to be the next ceo of apple, where i’ll create a billion-dollar product,” try something like, “my goal is to be the ceo of a successful company.” get clear on how you’re going to reach your goals. you should be able to explain the actions you’ll take to advance your career. if you can’t explain the steps, then you need to break your goal down into more manageable chunks. don’t be self-centered. your work should not only help you advance, but it should also support the goals of your employer. if your goals differ too much, then it might be a sign that the job you’ve taken isn’t a good fit. if you want to learn more about setting smart goals, watch the video below to learn how you can set smart career goals. after you’re clear on how to set smart goals, you can use this framework to tackle other aspects of your work. for instance, you might set smart goals to improve your performance review, look for a new job, or shift your focus to a different career. we’ll cover examples of ways to use smart goals to meet short-term career goals in the next section. why you need an individual development plan setting goals is one part of the larger formula for success. you may know what you want to do, but you also have to figure out what skills you have, what you lack, and where your greatest strengths and weaknesses are. one of the best ways to understand your capabilities is by using the science careers individual development plan skills assessment. it’s free, and all you need to do is register an account and take a few assessments. advertising these assessments will help you determine if your career goals are realistic. you’ll come away with a better understanding of your unique talents and skill-sets. you may decide to change some of your career goals or alter your timeline based on what you learn. 40 examples of goals for work & career all this talk of goal-setting and self-assessment may sound great in theory, but perhaps you need some inspiration to figure out what your goals should be. for changing a job attend more networking events and make new contacts. achieve a promotion to __________ position. get a raise. plan and take a vacation this year. agree to take on new responsibilities. develop meaningful relationships with your coworkers and clients. ask for feedback on a regular basis. learn how to say, “no,” when you are asked to take on too much. delegate tasks that you no longer need to be responsible for. strive to be in a leadership role in __ number of years. for switching career path pick up and learn a new skill. find a mentor. become a volunteer in the field that interests you. commit to getting training or going back to school. read the most recent books related to your field. decide whether you are happy with your work-life balance and make changes if necessary. [3] plan what steps you need to take to change careers.[4] compile a list of people who could be character references or submit recommendations. commit to making __ number of new contacts in the field this year. create a financial plan. for getting a promotion reduce business expenses by a certain percentage. stop micromanaging your team members. become a mentor. brainstorm ways that you could improve your productivity and efficiency at work seek a new training opportunity to address a weakness.[5] find a way to organize your work space.[6] seek feedback from a boss or trusted coworker every week/ month/ quarter. become a better communicator. find new ways to be a team player. learn how to reduce work hours without compromising productivity. for acing a job interview identify personal boundaries at work and know what you should do to make your day more productive and manageable. identify steps to create a professional image for yourself. go after the career of your dreams to find work that does not feel like a job. look for a place to pursue your interest and apply your knowledge and skills. find a new way to collaborate with experts in your field. identify opportunities to observe others working in the career you want. become more creative and break out of your comfort zone. ask to be trained more relevant skills for your work. ask for opportunities to explore the field and widen your horizon set your eye on a specific award at work and go for it. career goal setting faqs i’m sure you still have some questions about setting your own career goals, so here i’m listing out the most commonly asked questions about career goals. 1. what if i’m not sure what i want my career to be? if you’re uncertain, be honest about it. let the employer know as much as you know about what you want to do. express your willingness to use your strengths to contribute to the company. when you take this approach, back up your claim with some examples. if you’re not even sure where to begin with your career, check out this guide: how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising 2. is it okay to lie about my career goals? lying to potential employers is bound to end in disaster. in the interview, a lie can make you look foolish because you won’t know how to answer follow up questions. even if you think your career goal may not precisely align with the employer’s expectations for a long-term hire, be open and honest. there’s probably more common ground than they realize, and it’s up to you to bridge any gaps in expectations. being honest and explaining these connections shows your employer that you’ve put a lot of thought into this application. you aren’t just telling them what they want to hear. 3. is it better to have an ambitious goal, or should i play it safe? you should have a goal that challenges you, but smart goals are always reasonable. if you put forth a goal that is way beyond your capabilities, you will seem naive. making your goals too easy shows a lack of motivation. employers want new hires who are able to self-reflect and are willing to take on challenges. 4. can i have several career goals? it’s best to have one clearly-defined career goal and stick with it. (of course, you can still have goals in other areas of your life.) having a single career goal shows that you’re capable of focusing, and it shows that you like to accomplish what you set out to do. advertising on the other hand, you might have multiple related career goals. this could mean that you have short-term goals that dovetail into your ultimate long-term career goal. you might also have several smaller goals that feed into a single purpose. for example, if you want to become a lawyer, you might become a paralegal and attend law school at the same time. if you want to be a school administrator, you might have initial goals of being a classroom teacher and studying education policy. in both cases, these temporary jobs and the extra education help you reach your ultimate goal. summary you’ll have to devote some time to setting career goals, but you’ll be so much more successful with some direction. remember to: set smart goals. smart goals are specific, measurable, action-oriented, and realistic with timelines. when you set goals with these things in mind, you are likely to achieve the outcomes you want. have short-term and long-term goals. short-term career goals can be completed in 1-3 years, while long-term goals will take 3-5 years to finish. your short-term goals should set you up to accomplish your long-term goals. assess your capabilities by coming up with an individual development plan. knowing how to set goals won’t help you if you don’t know yourself. understand what your strengths and weaknesses are by taking some self-assessments. choose goals that are appropriate to your ultimate aims. your career goals should be relevant to one another. if they aren’t, then you may need to narrow your focus. your goals should match the type of job that you want and the quality of life that you want to lead. be clear about your goals with potential employers. always be honest with potential employers about what you want to do with your life. if your goals differ from the company’s objectives, find a way bridge the gap between what you want for yourself and what your employer expects. by doing goal-setting work now, you’ll be able to make conscious choices on your career path. you can always adjust your plan if things change for you, but the key is to give yourself a road map for success. more tips about setting work goals 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 15 personal goals for work to make you stand out from your coworkers how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals featured photo credit: tyler franta via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ achievit: the history and evolution of smart goals [2] ^ she knows: career planning: smart goals [3] ^ career addict: 13 examples of achievable career goals [4] ^ job interview site.com: career goals: examples of career goals and objectives [5] ^ science: goal-setting strategies for scientific and career success [6] ^ udemy: career goal examples: top 6 achievable career goals share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 15 personal goals for work to help you succeed how to create an action plan and achieve your personal goals how to find your ideal career path without wasting time on jobs not suitable for you advertising advertising more by this author brian lee chief of product management at lifehack how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to answer behavioral based interview questions smartly 7 best project management apps to boost productivity 100 incredible life hacks that make life so much easier 10 best new products that people don’t know about advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.