the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: documenting the tasman glacier with chris burkard posted on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 by kraig becker recently, adventure photographer chris burkhard teamed up with icebreaker to attempt to take a single photo that documented the impact of humans on nature. to capture that photo, they went to the tasman lake in new zealand, to inspect the tasman glacier there. as it turns out, this stunningly beautiful lake is just 40 years… read more video: an 80 mile hike along the torres del paine trail in chile posted on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 by kraig becker there is no doubt that the torres del paine region of patagonia in chile is amongst the most beautiful places on the planet. hiking the trails there is a top bucket-list item for many backpackers, with stunning landscapes to be found around nearly every turn. in this video, we join one such trekker as he… read more video: first review of the new land rover defender posted on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 by kraig becker there are few vehicles that have the heritage of the land rover defender when it comes to adventure and exploration. it is because of that heritage that many of us were waiting with baited breath for the next generation defender to be unveiled last fall. when it did finally make its debut, it was met… read more the adventure podcast episode 99: continuing your adventures in the time of the coronavirus posted on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 by kraig becker we’re back with another episode of the adventure podcast this week, with a focus on a topic that is on a lot of people’s minds right now. for our main discussion, my co-host dave adlard and i discuss ways for you to get your adventure fix in the age of the coronavirus. obviously, many of… read more archaeological finds surprise and amaze in mexico and russia posted on march 25, 2020march 25, 2020 by kraig becker the outdoor adventure and exploration community is mostly on lockdown across the globe, with very few expeditions currently underway. in fact, while much of the world deals with the coronavirus pandemic, most explorers, mountaineers, and travelers are sticking close to home, which means there isn’t a lot to report on right now. but some recent… read more video: outliers — pushing the boundaries of alpinism posted on march 24, 2020march 24, 2020 by kraig becker the world’s top mountaineers are always looking to push boundaries when it comes to their sport. whether it’s going faster, higher, or on more difficult and demanding terrain, the goal is to do things the no one has ever done before. once such alpinist is jordi tosas, who has carved out quite a resume for… read more video: going beyond the horizon posted on march 24, 2020march 24, 2020 by kraig becker we could all probably use a little escape right now. this video provides just that thanks to a collection of aerial shots from a wide variety of locations around the planet. you’ll spot landscapes from iceland, kenya, france, other places, providing a nice reminder that there is a great big world out there that we’ll… read more 2020 tokyo olympics officially cancelled posted on march 24, 2020march 24, 2020 by kraig becker it’s official! the 2020 olympic games, to be held in tokyo, japan, have been postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. the event—one of the biggest spectacles on the planet–is now set to take place sometime before the end of summer 2021, although the details have yet to be worked out or announced. the ongoing outbreak… read more banff film festival cancels tour, offers movies online for free posted on march 24, 2020march 24, 2020 by kraig becker we’re all struggling to find things to do right now and keep us occupied. that’s a fact of life in the age of the coronavirus for sure. this is especially true for those of us who would prefer to be outside on an adventure somewhere and it doesn’t help that simple pleasures like the banff… read more man runs full marathon on apartment balcony posted on march 24, 2020march 24, 2020 by kraig becker way back in february, when the coronavirus seemed like it was contained to just china, we shared a story about a unique training method that an ultrarunner had come up with there. confined to his home, that athlete reportedly ran more than 100km in his living room in order to avoid potential exposure to the… read more previous 1 2 3 4 5 … 1,378 next search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog