sponsored by about latest special reports window on eurasia global far right ukraine at war russia update putin in syria the power vertical the daily vertical podcasts the power vertical the daily vertical podcast spotlight summaries of newly obtained kgb training manuals by interpreter staffthe interpreter has obtained 9 more kgb manuals. spotlight on the situation in libya by pierre vauxthis is part of a tranche of internal communications from deep inside infamous caterer turned troll farmer and mercenary backer yevgeny prigozhin’s libya operation, always referred to simply as “the company.” these files were originally... spotlight report on the meeting with the doctor. 03/04/2019 by pierre vauxthis is part of a tranche of internal communications from deep inside infamous caterer turned troll farmer and mercenary backer yevgeny prigozhin’s libya operation, always referred to simply as “the company.” these files were originally... spotlight haftar strategy presentation by pierre vauxthis is part of a tranche of internal communications from deep inside infamous caterer turned troll farmer and mercenary backer yevgeny prigozhin’s libya operation, always referred to simply as “the company.” these files were originally... spotlight gaddafi strategy presentation by pierre vauxthis is part of a tranche of internal communications from deep inside infamous caterer turned troll farmer and mercenary backer yevgeny prigozhin’s libya operation, always referred to simply as “the company.” these files were originally... ukraine at war what ever happened to the “donetsk people’s republic”? by interpreter staff the so-called "donetsk people's republic" (dnr) has been quietly dismantled since the assassination of dnr leader alexander zakharchenko last year. it has been boxed up and sent to moscow, from which it is currently more overtly ruled. russia update summaries of newly obtained kgb training manuals by interpreter staff the interpreter has obtained 9 more kgb manuals. putin in syria the kremlin’s anti-western (and remarkably successful) middle east media project by interpreter staff "let us not kid ourselves, russia is now the most influential player in the region, and that is mostly due to obama's doctrine....which saw the u.s. role shrink." (faisal abbas on rt) podcast the briefing: one-party rule and a new kgb by brian whitmore on this week's power vertical briefing, rfe/rl's brian whitmore and steve gutterman discuss the results of yesterday's duma elections. spotlight us defense secretary james mattis meets with ukrainian president petro poroshenko; pledges additional $175 million in military aid by interpreter staff three ukrainian soldiers were wounded in the last day. published at 2019-10-04 analysis summaries of newly obtained kgb training manuals by interpreter staff the interpreter has obtained 9 more kgb manuals. published at 2019-09-12 spotlight on the situation in libya by pierre vaux this is part of a tranche of internal communications from deep inside infamous caterer turned troll farmer and mercenary backer yevgeny prigozhin’s libya operation, always referred to simply as “the company.” these files were originally obtained by the dossier centre, a london-based investigative team funded by former russian oligarch and political prisoner mikhail khodorkovsky. please […] podcast the briefing: one-party rule and a new kgb by brian whitmore on this week's power vertical briefing, rfe/rl's brian whitmore and steve gutterman discuss the results of yesterday's duma elections. archives october 2019 september 2019 july 2019 june 2019 january 2019 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 about us contact republishing disclaimer copyright