skip to main content skip to footer the wonder of tech making personal technology user-friendly for you! home about archives social media contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! main content the wonder of tech the wonder of tech carolyn nicander mohr / march 23, 2020 google launches new coronavirus/covid-19 resources google has launched several different tools related to the global coronavirus pandemic to help people find out more accurate information about the disease, its spread, prevention, government lockdowns and more. coronavirus, also known as covid-19, has dominated not only the news and our conversations but also searches on google. so google has introduced a new […] carolyn nicander mohr / march 16, 2020 12 ways tech can help with social distancing a mere two weeks ago, the wonder of tech published a guest post entitled 3 ways to avoid social distance in the age of technology. during those two weeks, life has changed dramatically around the world due to the global coronavirus pandemic (also known as covid-19). now, with social distancing being the best defense against […] carolyn nicander mohr / march 9, 2020 how to use 13 hidden apple watch tools in control center if you have an apple watch, you probably use it to track your exercise, measure your heart rate, get notifications, read text messages, see who’s calling you, and so much more. but to make the best use of your apple watch, you should check out the handy tools in control center on your watch. control […] next page » footer subscribe to the wonder of tech! first name last name email address: leave this field empty if you're human: let’s connect! facebook flickr google+ linkedin pinterest rss twitter youtube home about archives social media policies privacy policy comment policy guest post policy review policy thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here! tags 3d amazon android apple apps at&t cloud education email facebook fitness fun videos gaming gifts google gps handy tips hulu+ internet radio ipad iphone itunes kindle movies music netflix nintendo nook parenting photography pinterest poll roku sd cards security shopping slingbox tablets texts travel twitter verizon virgin mobile wearables youtube copyright © 2020 · digital pro on genesis framework · wordpress · log in home about archives social media policies thank you for subscribing to the wonder of tech! contact new to the wonder of tech? start here!