menu search get style get ahead get strong get social podcast books search style accessories shaving 10 things your father should have taught you about style if/how to wear a suit without a tie 8 myths of men’s style your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to clean a baseball cap here’s what happened when i wore a tie to work every day for a year how to make a leather belt your first style steps: beyond jeans, t-shirts, and tennis shoes how to trim your mustache: an illustrated guide how to grow a handlebar mustache how to treat a shaving cut podcast #139: the secrets of shaving browse all style & grooming personal finance college entrepreneurship networking professional skills so you want my job read these 5 books to get the personal finance education you never had how to haggle like your old man podcast #545: how not to get scammed, conned, or duped podcast #536: how to achieve a “rich life” with your finances podcast #449: faster and cheaper alternatives to college saving for your kids’ college education: a primer on the 529 podcast #385: learning how to learn how to write the perfect college application essay how to pursue a new career (while still getting the bills paid) so you (or your wife) wants to join a multi-level marketing company podcast #175: how to improve your work and life with systems 10 tips for successfully working from home podcast #403: a better way to network #393: the importance of building your social capital making introductions: the faqs how to contact a busy person how to keep your head (and even thrive) in a bureaucracy 7 techniques for capturing people’s attention how to ace a job interview how to deal with a talkative coworker so you want my job: stay-at-home dad so you want my trade: concrete mason so you want my trade: elevator mechanic so you want my trade: automotive mechanic/technician browse all money & career fitness nutrition sports wellness podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage the prisoner workout: killer bodyweight exercises for small spaces podcast #575: counterintuitive advice on making exercise a sustainable habit ready, set, fast: how strategic meal-skipping can help you lose fat, gain muscle, and get healthier podcast #475: how to lose weight, and keep it off forever how to make pine needle tea chugging your protein: it’s whey easier than you think podcast #554: babe ruth and the world he made podcast #549: leadership lessons from the gridiron’s greatest coaches get yourself some get action sweatbands the ultimate beginner’s guide to parkour how i finally made flossing a habit how to fall asleep in 2 minutes or less what every man should stock in his medicine cabinet testosterone week: how i doubled my testosterone levels naturally and you can too browse all health & sports dating fatherhood friendship etiquette marriage social skills 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism how to know if a woman likes you the best riddles for kids how to fight entitlement and develop gratitude in your kids podcast #555: dandelion children vs. orchid children 24 better questions to ask kids about how their day went how to avoid conversational narcissism the lost pleasures of group singing podcast #567: understanding the wonderful, frustrating dynamic of friendship podcast #548: how to start and sustain conversations how to avoid conversational narcissism a man’s guide to etiquette the complete guide to giving a great handshake the art of thank you note writing 18 at-home date ideas podcast #584: how to avoid falling in love with the wrong person how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #550: how to strengthen your marriage against divorce how to build instant rapport how to avoid conversational narcissism podcast #577: an fbi agent’s 6 signs for sizing people up podcast #559: how to handle difficult conversations browse all relationships & family gift guides 2019 in: fitness, health & sports, podcast brett • march 2, 2020 last updated: march 26, 2020 podcast #589: how exercise helps us find happiness, hope, connection, and courage you know how good moving your body is for your physical health. you probably have a vague sense that it’s good for your mental health too. but you likely don’t realize just how powerful movement truly is for your mind, and that it even affects your sense of hope, courage, connection, and identity. my guest today explores these lesser-appreciated impacts of physical activity in her new book, the joy of movement. her name is kelly mcgonigal and she’s a research psychologist and lecturer at stanford university. kelly and i begin our discussion with the idea of the runner’s high, and whether you can get it from doing forms of exercise other than running. we then discuss how exercise can become powerfully addictive, and yet be a uniquely healthy form of addiction that improves instead of destroys mental health. we then discuss the way that moving our bodies with others can generate collective joy, as well as a muscular bonding that makes a group feel bigger and stronger. we also get into what elements go into an ideal pump-up song, how physical movement helps create your sense of self, and why exercising in nature seems to amplify all its beneficial effects. we end our conversation with what you can start doing today to get more of the potent benefits of physical movement. if reading this in an email, click the title of the post to listen to the show. show highlights the deep connection between mental health and physical movement how exercise can fight loneliness what is the runner’s high? why does our brain reward us for exercise? why movement fosters connection with others what happens when regular exercisers aren’t able to do it as regularly how exercise makes every pleasurable experience more potent the unique nature of ultra-runners the collective joy of exercising in groups what is “we agency”? why you shouldn’t necessarily start small when it comes to exercise what makes for the perfect workout pump-up song embracing cheesiness the secret supercharger for your workouts resources/people/articles mentioned in podcast how to best harness your willpower (my first interview with kelly) making exercise a sustainable habit the 10 best ways to make exercise an unbreakable habit how bad do you want it? endocannabinoid system fitness, fellowship, and faith research-backed answers to your fitness faqs which fitness program is right for you? how to instill a love of fitness in your kids the lost pleasures of group singing keeping together in time all blacks haka 52 best workout songs bodyweight fundamentals: the handstand how boxing can fight parkinson’s disease the new frontier of flow connect with kelly kelly’s website kelly on twitter listen to the podcast! (and don’t forget to leave us a review!) listen to the episode on a separate page. download this episode. subscribe to the podcast in the media player of your choice. listen ad-free on stitcher premium; get a free month when you use code “manliness” at checkout. podcast sponsors click here to see a full list of our podcast sponsors. read the transcript coming soon! related articles never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. want to start taking action on the content you read on aom? join the strenuous life learn more never miss an update subscribe to the aom newsletter daily weekly i agree to the privacy policy terms. podcast #596 the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand podcast #595 everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594 how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 podcast #593 all you have to do is ask view all related articles/// podcast #596: the mystery, science, and life-changing power of the hot hand how i finally made flossing a habit podcast #595: everything you need to know about creating a home gym podcast #594: how churchill (and london) survived the blitz of 1940 view all take action today join the strenuous life the art of manliness copyright © 2020 all rights reserved contact legal about all topics archives we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.okprivacy policy