video webinars start a business subscribe books franchise home quiz: find your franchise business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers the ups store #5 franchise 500| postal, business, printing, and communications services my account entrepreneur insider saved content my account sign out video podcasts articles start a business store books women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert shop entrepreneur franchise franchise home franchise 500 ranking business opportunities list franchises for sale franchise suppliers directory products podcasts books entrepreneur insurance webinars spotlight topics leadership inspiration growth strategies marketing technology social media finance entrepreneurs starting a business franchise magazine issues subscribe gift subscription subscription services newsletter subscribe editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe south africa español georgia other contact advertise reprints & licensing terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map the ups store postal, business, printing, and communications services previous | next about founded 1980 franchising since 1980 (40 years) corporate address 6060 cornerstone ct. w. san diego, ca 92121 ceo tim davis ticker symbol ups financial requirements initial investment ⓘ $138,433 - $470,031 liquid cash requirement ⓘ $60,000 - $100,000 ongoing fees initial franchise fee ⓘ $29,950 - $29,950 ongoing royalty fee 5% ad royalty fee 2.5% financing options the ups store offers in-house financing to cover the following: startup costs, equipment, inventory the ups store has relationships with third-party sources which offer financing to cover the following:  franchise fee, startup costs, equipment, inventory veteran incentives $10,000 off franchise fee, including 50% off initial application fee support options ongoing support purchasing co-ops newsletter meetings/conventions toll-free line grand opening online support security/safety procedures field operations site selection proprietary software franchisee intranet platform marketing support co-op advertising ad templates national media regional advertising social media seo website development email marketing loyalty program/app on-the-job training: 92 hours classroom training: 80 hours additional training: ongoing support absentee ownership allowed number of employees required to run: 3 - 5 the ups store is ranked #5 in the franchise 500! bio the first mail boxes etc. store was opened in carlsbad, california by gerald aul, pat senn and robert diaz, who designed it as an alternative to the u.s. postal service. in 2001, mail boxes etc. became a subsidiary of ups and began re-branding as the ups store in 2003. the ups store locations provide packaging, shipping, copy and print services, mailbox services, computer time rentals and more for small businesses and individuals. franchises are located throughout the united states and in canada. cost initial investment: low - $138,433 high - $470,031 units +1.9%+95 units (1 year) +5.2%+256 units (3 years) units (locations) where seeking franchisees: franchisor is seeking new franchise units throughout the u.s. and in the following regions/states: canada related franchises see more minuteman press int'l. inc. see more pinch a penny pool patio spa see more prosource wholesale see more chemstation see more postal annex+ see more alphagraphics see more relax the back corp. see more sir speedy print signs marketing franchise articles franchising provides owners with a proven model and opportunities to evolve the system the value of owning a franchise is the operating system. rick bisio | 5 min read how this franchise ceo learned to lead by making mistakes speedpro president and ceo larry oberly is haunted by some of his earliest missteps as a manager. but today, that's made him a better boss. stephanie schomer | 4 min read what franchises should know before hiring a pr firm franchisors and franchisees alike can benefit from a talented pr firm that can get the attention of new customers. here's how to find a match. hayden field | 3 min read why this entrepreneur left tesla to open a tech repair franchise minhthe nguyen used to be an overworked silicon valley engineer. now, as a ubreakifix franchisee, he's still overworked -- but happier than ever. stephanie schomer | 4 min read from laid off to a million-dollar business how a passion for travel blossomed into a successful second career. 4 min read disclaimer the franchise 500 is not intended to endorse, advertise, or recommend any particular franchise. it is solely a research tool you can use to compare franchise operations. entrepreneur stresses that you should always conduct your own independent investigation before investing money in a franchise. updated: august 19th, 2019 reprints & licensing update your listing submit new listing franchise financing using 401(k)/ira funds tax penalty-free debt free expert guidance regions/states list company advertise brand licensing contact us staff contribute reprints & licensing products women entrepreneur green entrepreneur ask an expert entrepreneur insurance franchise webinars publish your book shop editions united states india asia pacific middle east europe español georgia south africa get the magazine subscribe join our newsletter terms of use privacy policy cookies policy site map copyright © 2020 entrepreneur media, inc. all rights reserved. entrepreneur media, inc. values your privacy. in order to understand how people use our site generally, and to create more valuable experiences for you, we may collect data about your use of this site (both directly and through our partners). by continuing to use this site, you are agreeing to the use of that data. for more information on our data policies, please visit our privacy policy. entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google email password forgot password? login don't have an account? sign up entrepreneur members get access to exclusive offers, events and more. login with facebook login with google first name last name email confirm email password confirm password yes, i want to receive the entrepreneur newsletter. i agree to the entrepreneur privacy policy and terms of use. create account