home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads erich fromm on human nature, the common laziness of optimism and pessimism, and why we need rational faith in the human spirit the sane society: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on how to save us from ourselves an antidote to helplessness and disorientation: the great humanistic philosopher and psychologist erich fromm on our human fragility as the key to our survival and our sanity labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the art of living: the great humanistic philosopher erich fromm on having vs. being and how to set ourselves free from the chains of our culture “full humanization… requires the breakthrough from the possession-centered to the activity-centered orientation, from selfishness and egotism to solidarity and altruism.” by maria popova a pioneer of what he called “radical-humanistic psychoanalysis,” the great german social psychologist and philosopher erich fromm (march 23, 1900–march 18, 1980) was one of the most luminous minds of the twentieth century and a fountain of salve for the most abiding struggles of being human. in the mid-1970s, twenty years after his influential treatise on the art of loving and four decades after legendary anthropologist margaret mead turned to him for difficult advice, fromm became interested in the most basic, most challenging art of human life — the art of being. at the height of a new era that had begun prioritizing products over people and consumption over creativity, fromm penned a short, potent book titled to have or to be? — an inquiry into how the great promise of progress, seeded by the industrial revolution, failed us in our most elemental search for meaning and well-being. but the question proved far too complex to tackle in a single volume, so fromm left out a significant portion of his manuscript. those pages, in many ways even richer and more insightful than the original book, were later published as the art of being (public library) — a sort of field guide, all the timelier today, to how we can shift from the having mode of existence, which is systematically syphoning our happiness, to a being mode. art by jean-pierre weill from the well of being fromm frames the inquiry: full humanization… requires the breakthrough from the possession-centered to the activity-centered orientation, from selfishness and egotism to solidarity and altruism. but any effort to outline the steps of this breakthrough, fromm cautions, must begin with the foundational question of what the goal of living is — that is, what we consider the meaning of life to be, beyond its biological purpose. he writes: it seems that nature — or if you will, the process of evolution — has endowed every living being with the wish to live, and whatever he believes to be his reasons are only secondary thoughts by which he rationalizes this biologically given impulse. […] that we want to live, that we like to live, are facts that require no explanation. but if we ask how we want to live — what we seek from life, what makes life meaningful for us — then indeed we deal with questions (and they are more or less identical) to which people will give many different answers. some will say they want love, others will choose power, others security, others sensuous pleasure and comfort, others fame; but most would probably agree in the statement that what they want is happiness. this is also what most philosophers and theologians have declared to be the aim of human striving. however, if happiness covers such different, and mostly mutually exclusive, contents as the ones just mentioned, it becomes an abstraction and thus rather useless. what matters is to examine what the term “happiness” means… art from kenny’s window, maurice sendak’s forgotten philosophical children’s book most definitions of happiness, fromm observes, converge at some version of having our needs met and our wishes fulfilled — but this raises the question of what it is we actually want. (as milan kundera memorably wrote, “we can never know what to want.”) it’s essentially a question about human nature — or, rather, about the interplay of nature and nurture mediated by norms. adding to the vocabulary of gardening as a metaphor for understanding happiness and making sense of mastery, fromm illustrates his point: this is indeed well understood by any gardener. the aim of the life of a rosebush is to be all that is inherent as potentiality in the rosebush: that its leaves are well developed and that its flower is the most perfect rose that can grow out of this seed. the gardener knows, then, in order to reach this aim he must follow certain norms that have been empirically found. the rosebush needs a specific kind of soil, of moisture, of temperature, of sun and shade. it is up to the gardener to provide these things if he wants to have beautiful roses. but even without his help the rosebush tries to provide itself with the optimum of needs. it can do nothing about moisture and soil, but it can do something about sun and temperature by growing “crooked,” in the direction of the sun, provided there is such an opportunity. why would not the same hold true for the human species? even if we had no theoretical knowledge about the reasons for the norms that are conducive to man’s optimal growth and functioning, experience tells us just as much as it tells the gardener. therein lies the reason that all great teachers of man have arrived at essentially the same norms for living, the essence of these norms being that the overcoming of greed, illusions, and hate, and the attainment of love and compassion, are the conditions for attaining optimal being. drawing conclusions from empirical evidence, even if we cannot explain the evidence theoretically, is a perfectly sound and by no means “unscientific” method, although the scientists’ ideal will remain, to discover the laws behind the empirical evidence. he distills the basic principle of life’s ultimate aim: the goal of living [is] to grow optimally according to the conditions of human existence and thus to become fully what one potentially is; to let reason or experience guide us to the understanding of what norms are conducive to well-being, given the nature of man that reason enables us to understand. illustration by emily hughes from the little gardener but one of the essential ingredients of well-being, fromm notes, has been gruesomely warped by capitalist industrial society — the idea of freedom and its attainment by the individual: liberation has been exclusively applied to liberation from outside forces; by the middle class from feudalism, by the working class from capitalism, by the peoples in africa and asia from imperialism. such external liberation, fromm argues, is essentially political liberation — an inherently limiting pseudo-liberation, which can obscure the emergence of various forms of imprisonment and entrapment within the political system. he writes: this is the case in western democracy, where political liberation hides the fact of dependency in many disguises… man can be a slave even without being put in chains… the outer chains have simply been put inside of man. the desires and thoughts that the suggestion apparatus of society fills him with, chain him more thoroughly than outer chains. this is so because man can at least be aware of outer chains but be unaware of inner chains, carrying them with the illusion that he is free. he can try to overthrow the outer chains, but how can he rid himself of chains of whose existence he is unaware? any attempt to overcome the possibly fatal crisis of the industrialized part of the world, and perhaps of the human race, must begin with the understanding of the nature of both outer and inner chains; it must be based on the liberation of man in the classic, humanist sense as well as in the modern, political and social sense… the only realistic aim is total liberation, a goal that may well be called radical (or revolutionary) humanism. the two most pernicious chains keeping us from liberation, fromm observes, are our culture’s property-driven materialism and our individual intrinsic tendencies toward narcissism. he writes: if “well-being” — [defined as] functioning well as a person, not as an instrument — is the supreme goal of one’s efforts, two specific ways stand out that lead to the attainment of this goal: breaking through one’s narcissism and breaking through the property structure of one’s existence. illustration by maurice sendak for bearskin from a special edition of the brothers grimm fairy tales he offers the crispest definition of narcissism i’ve encountered (something that took kafka a 47-page letter to articulate): narcissism is an orientation in which all one’s interest and passion are directed to one’s own person: one’s body, mind, feelings, interests… for the narcissistic person, only he and what concerns him are fully real; what is outside, what concerns others, is real only in a superficial sense of perception; that is to say, it is real for one’s senses and for one’s intellect. but it is not real in a deeper sense, for our feeling or understanding. he is, in fact, aware only of what is outside, inasmuch as it affects him. hence, he has no love, no compassion, no rational, objective judgment. the narcissistic person has built an invisible wall around himself. he is everything, the world is nothing. or rather: he is the world. but because narcissism can come in many guises, fromm cautions, it can be particularly challenging to detect in oneself in order to then eradicate — and yet without doing so, “the further way to self-completion is blocked.” a parallel peril to well-being comes from the egotism and selfishness seeded by our ownership-driven society, a culture that prioritizes having over being by making property its primary mode of existence. fromm writes: a person living in this mode is not necessarily very narcissistic. he may have broken through the shell of his narcissism, have an adequate appreciation of reality outside himself, not necessarily be “in love with himself”; he knows who he is and who the others are, and can well distinguish between subjective experience and reality. nevertheless, he wants everything for himself; has no pleasure in giving, in sharing, in solidarity, in cooperation, in love. he is a closed fortress, suspicious of others, eager to take and most reluctant to give. growth, he argues, requires a dual breakthrough — of narcissism and of property-driven existence. although the first steps toward this breaking from bondage are bound to be anxiety-producing, this initial discomfort is but a paltry price for the larger rewards of well-being awaiting us on the other side of the trying transformation: if a person has the will and the determination to loosen the bars of his prison of narcissism and selfishness, when he has the courage to tolerate the intermittent anxiety, he experiences the first glimpses of joy and strength that he sometimes attains. and only then a decisive new factor enters into the dynamics of the process. this new experience becomes the decisive motivation for going ahead and following the path he has charted… [an] experience of well-being — fleeting and small as it may be — … becomes the most powerful motivation for further progress… awareness, will, practice, tolerance of fear and of new experience, they are all necessary if transformation of the individual is to succeed. at a certain point the energy and direction of inner forces have changed to the point where an individual’s sense of identity has changed, too. in the property mode of existence the motto is: “i am what i have.” after the breakthrough it is “i am what i do” (in the sense of unalienated activity); or simply, “i am what i am.” in the remainder of the art of being, fromm explores the subtleties and practicalities of enacting this transformation. complement it with legendary social scientist john w. gardner, a contemporary of fromm’s, on the art of self-renewal, then revisit fromm’s abiding wisdom on what is keeping us from mastering the art of love. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 23, 2016 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2016/03/23/erich-fromm-the-art-of-living/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscultureerich frommphilosophy view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.