home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads walt whitman on democracy and optimism as a mighty form of resistance the universe in verse: sarah kay reads whitman and performs her splendid song-poem “astronaut” walt whitman on donald trump, how literature bolsters democracy, and why a robust society is a feminist society labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the body politic electric: walt whitman on women’s centrality to democracy “have i not said that womanhood involves all? have i not told how the universe has nothing better than the best womanhood?” by maria popova “i can conceive of no better service,” walt whitman (may 31, 1819–march 26, 1892) wrote in contemplating the mightiest force of resistance in times far more troubled than ours, “than boldly exposing the weakness, liabilities and infinite corruptions of democracy.” to whitman, who declared himself “the poet of the woman the same as the man,” the gravest weakness of democracy was the artificial, culturally manufactured inequality of the genders, which he recognized not only as a corruption of democracy but as a corruption of nature. equality for him, be it of the genders or the races, was never a matter of politics — that plaything of the human animal — but a matter of naturalness. because he saw how thickly interleaved our individual dignities are, how interdependent our flourishing — saw that “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you” — he took it upon himself, a century and a half before his society did, to save democracy from politics, standing up for the rightful balance of dignity and power. anne gilchrist — the unheralded genius whom whitman admired as “a sort of human miracle” belonging “to the times yet to come” — spoke for the epochs when she asked: “who but he could put at last the right meaning into that word ‘democracy,’ which has been made to bear such a burthen of incongruous notions?” walt whitman (photograph by mathew brady, early 1860s) whitman threw himself at righting — naturalizing — the gender imbalance of democracy not despite his maleness but precisely because of it. at the heart of his devotion to equality was an astute insight into the paradox of power: the understanding that no socially and politically marginalized group — not even a biological majority — moves to the center solely by its own efforts; it takes a gravitational pull by those kindred to the cause who are already in relative positions of power or privilege. it was a countercultural understanding in his time, and remains a countercultural understanding in ours, its negation ahistorical: citizens helped us immigrants obtain legal rights and protections; white women like astronomer maria mitchell and literary titan margaret fuller were on the ideological front-lines of abolition, some even on the literal front-lines of the civil war. long before the term feminism wove itself into the modern lexicon, america’s most celebrated poet (though perhaps the second-greatest) became an outspoken feminist. in his 1888 poem “america” — a reading of which is the only surviving recording of his voice — whitman eulogized his homeland as a “centre of equal daughters, equal sons.” he added this poem to his continually revised and expanded leaves of grass in the final years of his life, but coursing through it was the pulse-beat of a longtime conviction: as a young man, whitman was greatly influenced by margaret fuller — one of the central figures figuring — whose epoch-making book woman in the nineteenth century catalyzed american women’s emancipation movement. clippings of fuller’s columns for the new-york tribune, where she became the first female editor of a major american newspaper and america’s first foreign war correspondent, were found among whitman’s papers after his death. nearly two decades after fuller radicalized society, but long before her legacy helped women win the right to vote, whitman composed a remarkably prescient essay on the obstacles to democracy, included in the indispensable library of america volume walt whitman: poetry and prose (free ebook | public library). art by margaret c. cook for a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) insisting that no democratic society could exist in which women are not afforded the same rights as men, he wrote: i have sometimes thought… that the sole avenue and means of a reconstructed sociology depended, primarily, on a new birth, elevation, expansion, invigoration of woman… great, great, indeed, far greater than they know, is the sphere of women. […] of all dangers to a nation, as things exist in our day, there can be no greater one than having certain portions of the people set off from the rest by a line drawn — they not privileged as others, but degraded, humiliated, made of no account. a century before adrienne rich argued for literature as a force of women’s empowerment and a form of resistance to male capitalist society, whitman called for the creation of a new american literature that would be as much an original art form as a tool of social change. among “the most precious of its results,” whitman envisioned, would be “achieving the entire redemption of woman… and thus insuring to the states a strong and sweet female race.” art, he resolutely believed, was the ultimate catalyst for social transformation and betterment: the literature, songs, esthetics, &c., of a country are of importance principally because they furnish the materials and suggestions of personality for the women and men of that country, and enforce them in a thousand effective ways. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) whitman’s first serious biographer, the great nature writer john burroughs, notes in his exquisitely beautiful and loving portrait of the poet, whitman: a study (public library | free ebook), that whitman always heralded woman as man’s equal and never his plaything, property, or unpaid domestic servant, always as capable of embodying the qualities whitman most celebrated in human nature. burroughs wrote: i sometimes meet women whom i say are of the whitman type — the kind of woman he invoked and predicted… they are cheerful, tolerant, friendly, think no evil, meet high and low on equal terms; they walk, row, climb mountains; they reach forth into the actual world of questions and events, open-minded, sympathetic, frank, natural, good-natured… in short, the large, fresh, wholesome open-air natures whose ideal so completely possessed walt whitman. burroughs placed the equality of men and women as the crowning achievement of a more whitmanesque society — the more democratic society of the future: the more democratic we become, the more we are prepared for whitman; the more tolerant, fraternal, sympathetic we become, the more we are ready for whitman; the more we inure ourselves to the open air and to real things, the more we value and understand our own bodies, the more the woman becomes the mate and equal of the man, the more social equality prevails, — the sooner will come to whitman fullness and fruition. art by margaret c. cook from a rare 1913 edition of leaves of grass. (available as a print.) whitman himself had written in leaves of grass: the race is never separated — nor man nor woman escapes; all is inextricable — things, spirits, nature, nations, you too — from precedents you come. […] the creation is womanhood; have i not said that womanhood involves all? have i not told how the universe has nothing better than the best womanhood? art by lia halloran for the universe in verse. available as a print. complement with nikola tesla’s feminist vision for humanity, then revisit whitman on optimism as a mighty force of resistance, what it takes to be an agent of change, how to keep criticism from sinking your soul, and what makes life worth living. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 5, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/03/05/walt-whitman-women/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturephilosophypoetrypoliticspublic domainwalt whitmanwomen view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.