search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. the gifted season 2: release date, cast and everything you need to know aka the x-men spin-off that's not legion. by ian sandwell and morgan jeffery 29/06/2018 miller mobley/fox warning: contains spoilers for season 1. as they did with legion, fox renewed x-men spin-off the gifted for a second season before its first season had finished after it had received positive reviews, but modest ratings. the series follows an ordinary couple who are forced to go on the run from the government when they discover their two children have mutant powers, with the family seeking help from an underground network of mutants. following the explosive two-hour season one finale, here's everything we know about season two so far. the gifted season 2 release date: when's it coming? the first season kicked off on fox in the us on october 2, 2017 and season two will land a bit earlier on tuesday, september 25. we know you've been counting down the days, mutants. #thegifted is officially back for season 2 on september 25 at a new time and day - tuesdays at 8/7c. 🔥 pic.twitter.com/afstkwuxjy — the gifted (@thegifted_tv) june 28, 2018 in the uk, the first season premiered only a few days after the us, so hopefully that pattern will continue for the second, meaning we should get it at some point in that week. the gifted season 2 cast: who's returning? as with the first season, the strucker family will be central to the second season so that means returns for stephen moyer and amy acker as reed and caitlin strucker, along with natalie alyn lind and percy hynes white as their children lauren and andy. fox given they all survived the season one finale, sean teale, jamie chung, emma dumont and blair redford will all be back as mutant underground members eclipse, blink, polaris and thunderbird, respectively, as will coby bell as sentinel services agent jace turner who is trying to hunt down the struckers and the mutants. we can also expect to see more of skyler samuels as esme frost and her sisters phoebe and sophie, otherwise known as the stepford cuckoos. tvline reports that she will potentially be a series regular in season two, with samuels teasing: "yeah, you'll be seeing lots more of me and my sisters next season!" fox samuels also wouldn't rule out an appearance for the stepford cuckoos' mother emma frost. "to be totally honest, that's still up in the air. i feel like that may very well be something that happens further down the line," she teased to ew. other recurring stars that could get an outing in season two include hayley lovitt as mutant sage and jermaine rivers as mutant shatter, although garret dillahunt looks unlikely to return as dr roderick campbell given that polaris caused the plane he was on to crash in the season one finale (and given dillahunt's new role on fear the walking dead). empire star grace byers has joined the cast for season two as reeva, likely an adaptation of the comics character reeva payge - who at one point was a member of the new york hellfire club's inner circle in marvel comics lore. getty images in the fox series, she is described as a "smart, charming, authoritative, elegant, beautiful woman who is ruthless in her efforts to fight for her people". the gifted season 2 plot: how does season 1 set it up? everything was shaken up by the finale which saw polaris take a leaf from her father magneto's book by causing the plane that dr campbell and anti-mutant senator montez were on to crash, literally ripping the engines off as it passed overhead. as she was doing this, the strucker children combined their power to stop sentinel services and the hounds, destroying the mutant underground's atlanta base in doing so. fox once the mutant underground regrouped, polaris revealed that she had joined the hellfire club as esme invited anyone else to join, leading to sage and fade (jeff daniel phillips) to accept and, most importantly, andy. showrunner matt nix has told tvline that polaris's actions will have huge consequences. "mutants killing a united states senator is a huge deal, and killing the lead scientist at trask industries brings its own host of problems. going into next season they've created a whole new situation with regards to public opinion and politics, and they're going to have to find a new way of living in this world," he teased. she did what she had to do. #thegifted pic.twitter.com/qf73dhf4qk — the gifted (@thegifted_tv) january 16, 2018 he added that season two will see a lot more of "mutants in the world", as well as exploring the growth of the hellfire club and the purifiers. the season finale included a name drop to madeline risman and in the comics, matthew risman is the leader of the purifiers. "beyond that, we kind of need to figure out exactly what's happening in the other corners of the x-men universe. and of course, longer term, if the disney/fox thing goes through, that'll throw another curve ball – so we'll see how that goes," nix explained. fox nix has also hinted that the new season might explore in more detail the infamous 7/15 incident that led to the enactment of strict anti-mutant laws."i would definitely like to explore 7/15 in more detail," he again told tvline, hinting at potential flashbacks. "what exactly happened there is certainly one of the central questions of the series." these reveals would play out over more than a single episode, too. "it's a bigger deal than that, linked as it is to the disappearance of the x-men and the brotherhood, the creation of the mutant underground and the attempted rebuilding of the hellfire club…. it's kind of at the centre of everything we're doing." the gifted season 2: bryan singer's involvement in early january 2018, it was revealed that bryan singer would no longer be producing fox's other x-men spin-off legion after he asked to be dropped from the series so as not to become a distraction, according to showrunner noah hawley. singer is currently facing sexual misconduct allegations – including a lawsuit – that he denies, and he is still attached to the gifted as an executive producer, having directed the pilot episode. "truthfully, after he shot the pilot, he went and did a movie and had little to no involvement day-to-day in season one. but we take all the allegations very seriously, and we're looking into it for season two. right now we have a lot of time before it premieres, and we continue to have discussions about it," fox entertainment president michael thorn told deadline. the gifted season 2 trailer: when's it landing? there's already an early teaser out there( though it's very much a teaser, with no actual footage from the new episodes). fox unveiled the first full look at the first season during their upfronts presentation in may 2017, so we could expect to see new footage at this year's event. if not, comic-con is the next best guess for when we'll get a trailer for season two. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from features new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now new on netflix this week: movies you can watch now advertisement - continue reading below complete wwe and nxt pay-per-view schedule wwe wrestlemania 36: matches and predictions prison break season 6: everything you need to know how lord of the rings would look with the 1st cast it chapter 2: comparing the child and adult casts glastonbury festival 2020: all you need to know disenchantment parts 3 & 4: all you need to know taboo season 2: everything you need to know features tv features ustv features us tv tv the alienist season 2: everything you need to know happy! season 2: everything you need to know the orville season 2: everything you need to know the rain season 2: everything you need to know dark season 2 on netflix: everything you need to know runaways season 2: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising