bustle the best 'tiger king' memes, from joe exotic's style to carole baskin's antics by danielle burgos march 27, 2020 netflix netflix's latest true crime spectacular, tiger king, has taken the internet by storm. the seven part docuseries follows joe exotic, the owner of a zoo in rural oklahoma who's known to his fans as the self-proclaimed "tiger king." while tiger king charts exotic's years-long rivalry with big cat rescue founder and animal-rights activist carole baskin, that's just one layer of this stranger-than-fiction story. throughout the series the audience also watches as exotic pursues a country music career, a failed presidential bid, and gets married to multiple men (and during one wedding, to two at once). he also becomes involved with a murder-for-hire plot, a gubernatorial race, teams up with peta, and at one point runs away from the zoo and his community. it's exotic's high jinks that are drawing audiences to the documentary — and also leading them to meme it, endlessly. whether they're making fun of exotic's eclectic style, baskin's husbands mysterious "disappearance," or how we're all just barely hanging in there — like exotic's eyebrow rings — people have had just as much fun engaging with tiger king as they have watching it. read on for the very best of the many, many tiger king memes on the internet now. on the sheer absurdity of the series: on the big cat queen, carole baskin: on joe's lewks: on how 'tiger king' might be what saves us all: on the series' real star — the cats: more like this where is carole baskin in 2020? the 'tiger king' subject has a lofty goal by rebecca patton what happened to carole baskin's husband? 'tiger king' doesn't have any answers by gretchen smail can you still buy joe exotic's campaign merchandise from 'tiger king'? by julia emmanuele what does carole baskin think of 'tiger king'? she's not a fan by allyson koerner newsentertainmentbeautyfashionlifestylebookshealthwomen's history monthspread the lovevideo about usadvertisetermsprivacydmcacontact uscoupons