home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home administrative solutions the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation pays... the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation pays off by kelly walsh - march 20, 2020 1 share facebook twitter image source as a small, nimble, proprietary college, we've been able to stay ahead of the curve and ease the transition to virtual teaching, support, and administration for our students, staff, and faculty so far. in these challenging times, it's hard not to be proud of our students, staff, and faculty here at the college of westchester. as soon as things started go sideways early the week of march 2nd, president del balzo and our management team stepped up and started communicating right away. my amazing, dedicated it staff was all over it. we had already been enabling remote access to desktops for years along with various other measures intended to support business continuity while enhancing ongoing efficiencies. when we transitioned to a cloud based phone system last year, we made a point of getting familiar with their “mobility” solution, which would enable our users to use their smart phones much like the phones on their desks. this turned out to be a home run as we implemented it over the last week. we had done a lot of emergency prep and it was paying off. but who would have thought it would be a pandemic we were preparing for? normally in bc/dr (business continuity, disaster recovery) planning, you balance risk versus likelihood of different scenarios. fire, power outage, earthquake, severe weather, etc., are pretty high on the list of real things that happen and can create an emergency situation. but a pandemic? honestly, that's way down on the list of possibilities. but here we are. putting plans into action we started teaching remotely last friday, and staff started working from home on tuesday. i have a consultant working for me who works with numerous higher education institutions and he mentioned that all of the other schools he is working with are scrambling and that we are way ahead of the curve (like “night and day” compared to most of these other schools). i am so grateful for the diligence and skills of the people who work for me. since we've moved online, some of our students have mentioned that they miss learning from their instructors face to face, but most have been pretty positive about the transition. one instructor shared the following: “i held all four of my classes online using zoom. it was wonderful. i had 90% attendance in every class. this week we did poetry and read the poems to each other while analyzing them. i shared my screen, so it felt like we were in a real classroom just not physically together. the students were so grateful and happy. everyone participated and one student wrote to me: ‘hi professor! i had fun in today's class. thank you for keeping up with us. i hope to see you soon stay safe'” some other feedback from faculty: “for the most part participation has been very good in my classes. maybe even better than in person! they are certainly more talkative,” and, “i have to tell you how impressed i am with the college out reach. everything has been clear and transparent! amazing job.” a place to express concerns, questions, positive thoughts thanks to our college mobile phone app, students also have the opportunity to express concerns, observations, etc., on our digital “campus wall”, which is a powerful thing in times like these. administrators pay attention to these postings and follow up with students as needed. there are consistently more positive comments and postings than negative ones, even in these last few weeks. having a place for students to openly express concerns and ask questions is a great thing (as long as we provide useful feedback and reach out when needed). i hope everyone is staying well and managing well enough through these difficult weeks! i also hope everyone's cooperative efforts and hard work will help to keep things working well going forward. it's probably going to get tougher before it gets better but if we just hang in there and work together, hopefully we'll come out the other side with valuable lessons learned and a new outlook. related posts use jotform cards to collect more actionable data for your classroom 5 key questions to prepare your college for a potential coronavirus closure would students prefer to talk to a robot when they need help? understanding how big data can help improve teaching, with 2 examples share facebook twitter tweet previous articlethe top 7 apps to boost student proactiveness next article5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy kelly walsh https://www.emergingedtech.com kelly walsh is chief information officer and ciso at the college of westchester, in white plains, ny, where he also teaches. in 2009, walsh founded emergingedtech.com. he frequently delivers presentations and training on a variety of education and technology topics at schools and conferences across the u.s. walsh is a flipped learning network board member. he also writes regularly for university business magazine. in his "spare time" he writes, records, and performs original music ... stop by kwalshmusic.com and have a listen! [disclaimer: the opinions expressed here are my own, or those of other writers, and not those of my employer. - k. walsh] 1 comment mary beth del balzo march 20, 2020 at 7:25 pm kelly – thank you for sharing the good work that everyone at the college of westchester continues to accomplish, not just in the past few weeks, but with an eye to detail and excellence that allows us to be ready for our students, staff and faculty every day. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©