× canada edition newslatest newshousinggood newsexplainersworldmeanwhile in canadaalbertabritish columbia coronavirus politicsjustin trudeauandrew scheerjagmeet singhelizabeth mayontario politicsdoug fordus politics'follow-up' podcast businessreal estateworkrecallsbasic incomeprecariously taxedunfriendly skiesmoney hacks lifelifestyle newshealthrelationshipshow-toidentitystylefood & drinkhomeborn and raised'navigating'royalsgift guidesthis could helptravel parentsnews you can useself-carehow-toreal talk'life after birth'dad lifeparents voicesroyal kids perspectivespersonalopinionhow to pitch to huffposthometownvoices video podcasts'follow-up''born & raised'news for google home/alexa follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. × newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideocanada edition huffpost finds the best plant delivery services that'll bring the outdoors in grab cheap indoor plants online with the help of these plant and flower delivery services 🌿 by brittany nims 03/25/2020 03:00pm edt icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. huffpost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. prices and availability subject to change. rgstudio via getty images if you can't go outside, bring the outdoors in with these affordable delivery services for indoor plants. we won’t beat around the bush: it’s a weird, challenging and, frankly, unnerving time to be a citizen of planet earth. we’re each adjusting to a lifestyle spent mostly indoors, whether that means stress-cleaning, stress-cooking or learning how to cut our own hair for the first time. if you’re the kind of person who’d rather spend their days in an actual jungle than a concrete jungle, it might be especially hard to stay cooped up inside while heeding the expert advice on social distancing. there’s a reason we all crave the great outdoors. people who spend two hours a week in green space are “substantially” more likely to report better physical and mental health, according to a study of 20,000 people by the european centre for environment & human health at the university of exeter. anchiy via getty images plants might help you be more productive in your home office. that’s reason enough to want to head to your local park, but don’t lace up your walking shoes just yet. there’s some research that indicates greenery can have a positive impact on your lifestyle even if you can’t make it outside. indoor plants might also make us happier, healthier and more productive. a 2015 study found that people who interacted with houseplants were less stressed, with signs of lower blood pressure and an overall feeling of calmness and well-being. (though new research indicates houseplants might not actually purify the air inside your home, as previously thought.) still, if you’re looking for ways to liven up your indoors situation while also making your space potentially less stressful and more cozy, it’s a good time to start bookmarking all of the places you can buy plants online and have them delivered. from popular delivery companies like the sill and plants.com to lesser-known etsy shops for plants, we rounded up seven of our favorite services that’ll help you bring the great outdoors in. take a look below: 1 bloomscape bloomscape bloomscape is an online shop that delivers plants directly from the greenhouse to your front door. the brand just unveiled a mojave-inspired cacti collection, including everything from a prickly pear cactus and a hedge cactus to an extra large yucca cane. for cacti beginners, we recommend this mini mojave collection that includes a golden barrel cactus, a fairy castles cactus and a bullwinkle cactus. if you're not into cacti, however, there's plenty of other greenery to browse at bloomscape. check out plants at bloomscape. 2 the bouqs co. bouqs don't let the name fool you. though bouqs does specialize in beautifully designed bouquets and floral arrangements for all kinds of occasions, the brand has also branched into plants you can order online . browse a selection of everyday house plants like a snake plant and a zebrina plant, or choose from more unique greenery like yellow orchids and succulent sets. bouqs is still delivering nationwide, too. check out plants at bouqs. 3 etsy kseniya ovchinnikova via getty images etsy isn't just a destination for cute planters and potters (although it's also that). the artisan-to-consumer marketplace also includes sellers who've cultivated quite the green thumb. and right now, those sellers need your online support more than ever. you'll find many etsy shops that sell greenery, but our favorites include spyloh, hirts gardens and plant crafting co. for things like plants, veggies and even microgreens. check out plants on etsy. 4 plants.com plants.com plants.com is your destination for all things green. you'll find a wide selection of all kinds of plants, from flowering orchids and hearty bamboo plants to towering floor plants and even herbs. check out plants at plants.com. 5 the sill the sill the sill delivers plants — either potted or not — with simple care instructions. choose from plant categories that fit your lifestyle, like "pet-friendly," "low-light tolerant," "for beginners" and even "faux plants." the sill recently also unveiled its first blooming-plants collection, featuring orchids and anthuriums. check out plants at the sill. 6 terrain terrain terrain is the home and garden sibling to urban outfitters and anthropologie. whether you're looking for a house-warming gift for your coworker or a new houseplant for your living room, they have a curated selection of fresh greens that'll make your space feel vibrant and energized. keep in mind that terrain carries fresh bouquets and flowering plants like poppy bunches and iris bouquets as opposed to your typical houseplants. check out plants at terrain. 7 urbanstems urbanstems you might typically think of urbanstems for local flower and bouquet deliveries, but the brand also curates a large selections of plants like zz plants and pencil cacti. browse plants that align with your lifestyle, like air-purifying, low-light, low-maintenance and even pet-friendly. check out plants at urbanstems. related... bored? take a stab at these beginner embroidery kits. 20 low-effort closet organization finds for all your small-space problems where to stock up on wine, beer and alcohol while social distancing without going broke suggest a correction more:shoppableshoppinghome hacksfinds seofinds home brittany nims manager, commerce content + strategy icon_twittercreated with sketch. follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police videos getting coronavirus cabin fever? try dancing. diy face masks won’t lower covid-19 risk. what should you use them for? british pm boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 here’s the latest on the coronavirus’ impact around the world how to apply for cerb, canada’s new $2,000 emergency response benefit newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideo advertise with usfaquser agreement (updated)privacy (updated)comment policyabout usabout our ads part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved.