about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews the gigantic autism billboard: autism wisdom in a few words neve spicer updated mar 27, 2020 facebook twitter pinterest what if you had to distill a lifetime of lived experience with autism into a single pearl of wisdom? imagine you could have a gigantic billboard upon which you could share this — metaphorically speaking, getting a message out to millions or billions – what would it say and why? in celebration of world autism day, we posed this very question to the autism community; we asked people on the autism spectrum, their parents, professionals, and autism bloggers and influencers. given just one sentence or paragraph, this is what they chose to share with the world. photo by @dpopbes pearls of autism wisdom a powerful and diverse set of voices responded. they directed their messages at (a) school kids about to have a new classmate with autism, (b) new parents to a child with autism, (c) educators about to teach a child with autism for the first time, or simply (d) everyone in the world! here are the words they chose to go on their metaphorical ‘gigantic autism billboard’… “sometimes we forget that it’s okay to move at our own pace or we expect others to succeed or develop at a pace that is not theirs, but ours. be open to people who require a little bit more patience, understanding & acceptance.” chevone peterson @ chevslife.com blogger | influencer | mom | on autistic spectrum “autism is a different way of perceiving, thinking, learning and relating.” dr tony @ tonyattwood.com.au clinician | author | international speaker “with autism, never say never.” that’s because over the years i have seen my (now thirty year old) autistic son nat do things i never dreamed he’d do when he was little. we just have to keep coming back to things and see if he’s evolved or grown enough to try it again! countless things like sports, imaginative play (just yesterday) swimming in the ocean, answering questions, living somewhere without us, working, going out for a walk peacefully… and on and on. atypical development means it could happen at any time.) susan senator @ susansenator.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “autism impacts an entire family, including brothers and sisters. siblings experience the ups, downs, and everything-in-betweens of having a loved one on the spectrum. on world autism day – and every day – please recognize that siblings are special, too.” emily holl @ kindering.org “my autism is my superpower because it helps save and change the lives of others.” sarah michelle ramos @ trailblazingautism.home.blog 26 year old female activist | early childhood educator with autism “you are not alone!” joel @ autisable.com “autistic kids want to feel loved and accepted in the same ways that other kids do. ask questions, listen to the answers and make the changes that are possible. sometimes we need to feel uncomfortable, to make others feel comfortable. it’s hard but definitely worth it.” lindsey malc @ sidebysidetherapy.ca bcba | blogger | advocate “autism is a marathon and not a sprint. when your kid is first diagnosed you’re going to get inundated with advice from everywhere but you can’t try everything all at once. just choose one path and stick with it and don’t look back.” frank campagna @ theautismdaddy.com blogger | speaker | parent to child on autistic spectrum “those who cannot or will not speak, more often than not hear and understand. to mistake a lack of conventional communication with a lack of self or a lack of intelligence is a grave error. presume competence, always.” danielle @ someonesmum.co.uk blogger | speaker | parent to child on autistic spectrum “your real goal should be for your child to learn, grow, and feel safe in an environment that allows him to explore his expanding world. period. the school’s job is to help make that happen. ask for whatever your child needs to have a positive and successful middle school experience.” leigh @ flappinessis.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “as a high functioning individual, i’ve noticed that there are a few things that help me when i am depressed. the first is just listening to me and letting me vent. sometimes when i vent, i have so many thoughts in my head that once i start to “release” them, they won’t stop flowing out of me until i’ve said everything that i need to say. even if i don’t make complete sense, just being able to be a listening ear really makes a difference. another thing that really helps me is just being patient and staying in touch. it may sound simple enough, but it takes a lot to do so.” ethan hirschberg @ thejourneythroughautism.com autism blogger “autism means i miss what others catch, and i catch what others miss.” alicia @ themomkind.com blogger | writer | motivational speaker | mother to three autistic children while being on the autism spectrum herself “diversity is the essence of brilliance and when we stifle it in a neurotypical mould, it is the world’s loss. we need to adapt and create new, more appropriate and innovative ways to support this way of being.” holly bridges neurodivergent author | teacher | therapist | asd specialist “when you can’t look on the bright side, i will sit with you in the dark.” – a quote from alice in wonderland kate @ findingcoopersvoice.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “if you are at the beginning of your autism journey the best advice i can give is to be your child’s best advocate. you as the parent know your child better than any expert ever will. and have hope.” jessica watson @ fourplusanangel.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “care for your child and for you. there is so much to learn, so many appointments, specialists, therapies and iep meetings. don’t forget when you are busy taking care of everything and everyone, to include yourself on the list.” kate @ awenestyofautism.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “a student who happens to need extra time to process language, wait time to think about it and respond, and then a chance to try it themselves- and then who fails is not an idiot. moreover, the inability to talk does not mean the inability to think or to feel. presume competence.” ayo @ noodlenook.net blogger | influencer | teacher of children with autism “you don’t have to read every book on autism! there are a lot of great books on autism but you don’t have to read them all in that week or that month or that year. take your time. it’s not a race.” lisa @ atypicalfamilia.com blogger | influencer | parent to child on autistic spectrum “to the mummy whose child just got a diagnosis. i know this is scary, oh so scary. i know you wonder if you are up to finding out all you need to know, to learning all there is to learn, to parenting in a different kind of way. you are. you have got this. you will find a strength you never knew existed, you will be the best mummy your child could dream of. love will make it happen.” victoria @ starlightandstories.com autism specialist teacher | blogger “see the able, not the label.” here at ability today we focus on what we can do not what we can’t. grant logan, founder abilitytoday.com influencer | advocate | speaker “focus on the abilities and not the disability. what are your child’s strengths, where do they excel? children with autism excel in many different areas that range all over the map. sometimes it is the child’s special interests that will help you discover their talents. what motivates them? many children with autism grow up to make significant contributions in fields such as information technology, engineering, and the arts. ” cindy bowers @ stageslearning.com coo, stages learning materials “we understand this april will look different than all of us planned, but it does not change the challenges autism presents or the support families need. we ask you, challenge you, and inspire you to dig deep and persevere to support these wonderful families this april and beyond.” autism new jersey @ autismnj.org photo by @dpopbes what would you write on your gigantic autism billboard? if you could share one message about autism with the world, what would it be, and why? add your voice in the comments below! world autism day this is wetheparents’ contribution to world autism day. parenthood is an intricate and vibrantly colored tapestry woven with joy and pain, triumph and struggle. we know that parenting a child on the autism spectrum brings with it a host of new rewards and challenges. our hope is that the warm and wise messages shared here by parents, experts, and those on the autistic spectrum will encourage and support families around the world and also that they may help to bring some autism awareness to those without lived experience. home family & parenting the gigantic autism billboard: autism wisdom in a few words related posts 5 gentle ways to raise an independent toddler the ultimate guide to potty training how to stop cyberbullying leave a reply cancel reply save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest