skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 april 19, 2019 aigars silkalns plugins 1 comment any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an email list. it refers to a list of potential consumers for your product or service collected diligently over a period of time. the marketing automation platform, mailchimp, is a great aid in building an email list, growing a consumer base and directing all marketing efforts to this highly relevant audience. the wordpress plugins for mailchimp help to add your wordpress visitors to your email lists. they convert visitors to your website into subscribers and customers, and allow you to add forms and widgets that make it easier for them to signup to your email lists. an email list is an important asset to any website. it is a readily available, customized market for your product or service. a high quality list can mean better conversion rates. mailchimp helps you build this list and is an important marketing tool in the kitty of any digital marketer. it helps store owners find their audience, engage with them and build their brand. using mailchimp you can create beautiful newsletters, run professional automated marketing campaigns, and track and test each campaign. you can read more about this in our earlier post. you’ll also be glad that there are a number of mailchimp email templates that you can use to enhance your email campaigns. mailchimp is available for free for up to 2000 subscribers and 12000 emails per month. it packs built-in signup forms. besides, it helps you collect subscribers on platforms like twitter, facebook and create integrated marketing campaigns across multiple platforms. it generates free reports and data to help you fine tune your marketing strategy. for using advanced testing tools, high volume emails and a number of additional features, you’ll need to go with the paid options. wordpress plugins for mailchimp help you add subscribers to your email list. to use these plugins, you must have a mailchimp account and at least one list set up within that account. free wordpress plugins for mailchimp many of the free plugins available in the wordpress plugin directory are popular with wordpress users. some of them go beyond the basic function of allowing you to add a form, and offer you stats, reports and analytics, besides customizing your forms. mailchimp for wordpress mailchimp for wordpress offers various methods to sign up more subscribers to your mailchimp list. it connects your wordpress site with your mailchimp account in seconds, and helps you create user friendly and mobile optimized subscription forms. the forms can be customized and displayed anywhere on your posts, pages and widget areas. you can even add the forms to comments or checkout page, which can increase the chances of conversion. it integrates with other forms like contact form 7, woocommerce, buddypress and gravity forms. on activating the plugin and pasting the api code, you’ll see all the data from your mailchimp account on the plugin’s setting screen. of course, you can access this data on the mailchimp portal, but this plugin helps you see it all on your wordpress dashboard. while the free plugin allows you to add only a single form, the premium version allows multiple forms that can load using ajax. the premium plugin also completely integrates with woocommerce, and includes style builder for good looking forms. every sign up effort is recorded and you’ll know which form is performing best. all form submissions can be acknowledged by email. more info / download mailchimp forms by mailmunch mailchimp forms by mailmunch helps you build beautiful mailchimp forms to maximize conversions and grow your mailchimp list. it guides you in connecting your site to your mailchimp account, helps you select a mailchimp list and adds mailchimp forms to your site. once you connect to the mailchimp account, this plugin gathers all your list information and loads it in the plugin’s admin. you can choose the lists for which you want to make forms. it allows you to add any number of forms to your posts, pages, sidebars or any other section. the forms can be added anywhere using a shortcode, and they help you capture leads and sends it to specific mailchimp lists automatically. a mailmunch account is necessary to use the plugin. you can build many different mailchimp forms and pages, including exit popup forms, top bar, scroll box or sidebar widgets. the forms include a landing page builder. without going premium, you can customize the forms a great deal. however, to remove logo, for instant email notification and other features, you’ll have to choose premium options. with the help of analytics, reporting and ab testing, you can improve conversions. more info / download mailchimp forms by optincat mailchimp forms by optincat helps you build beautiful mailchimp forms that blend well with your theme. three different types of forms are available – mailchimp post boxes that you can simply add to your posts and pages, and mailchimp sidebar widgets that will be present across the entire site. the third type of form is the mailchimp popup lightbox form that appears on the top of your content. you can adjust the frequency of popup and redirect subscribers to any page after signup. moreover, you’ll be able to create any number of these forms. insert the post boxes anywhere using a shortcode. the design is responsive and the plugin offers a number of customization options. it includes analytics, so you know which form work best for you. the premium plugin allows popup forms on mobile devices, mobile campaign monitor popups, exit intent popups, popup effects and targeting. it also includes priority email support, and extra layout and design options. more info / download featured images in rss for mailchimp this is a simple to use tool that adds images to your rss feed instantly without the need to spend a single penny. it works fantastically well with mailchimp rss emails and also supports loads of other email service providers. as for the featured image, you can select between thumbnail, medium and large sizes. you can also choose a theme-specific size or simply go full-screen. moreover, you can also select the positioning of the image and set padding. as for the positioning, it supports left above text, left text wrap and centered above content to name a few. last but not least, you can also configure padding between the image and the body text. more info / download contact form 7 mailchimp extension you can now quickly and effortlessly connet contact form 7 with the powerful mailchimp. simply install and activate the plugin and you will see a new tab appear in the contact form 7 admin section. by using the latest api, you now have an option to add predetermined email lists in mailchimp. contact form 7 mailchimp extension also comfortably handles multiple mailing lists and api keys. getting the most out of this mailchimp extension is easy as it is structured in a very beginner-friendly way. you have a bunch of different options and features to put into play. for instance, you can create both single and double opt-ins, with or without email confirmation. there is also an opt-in checkbox and full support for custom fields. when in need to mix and match the power of contact form 7 with mailchimp, here is the plugin that will realize it for you in a snap. more info / download gdpr compliance for mailchimp the new eu general data protection regulation (gdpr) law hit some heavier than the others. websites that are collecting user information and are located in europe, now need to have gdpr compliance somewhere on their page. and when you collect emails and any other personal information, there should be a checkbox that they tick, confirming that they consent to the use of their information. this, you can now add to your forms swiftly with the use of gdpr compliance for mailchimp wordpress plugin. once you activate the plugin, a new feature will appear which you can use to enable or disable pre-check compliance checkbox. furthermore, you can use the default settings or you can customize the text according to your regulations. better be safe than sorry so add gdpr compliance to your forms and grow your lists to new heights. more info / download mailchimp subscribe form while some themes already have it integrated into its web design, you need to create your own with all the others. what am i even talking about? subscription forms! mailchimp subscribe form is a free wordpress mailchimp plugin, a form builder if you will. in just about sixty seconds, you can have a fully active form up and live, accepting new emails on your website. growing an email list and definitely crucial for the success of your business. email campaigns give you complete freedom to what you would like to deliver to your subscribers. just do not be spammy and all will be fine. mailchimp subscribe form comes with enticing templates which you can use out of the box. with the visual editor, you can quickly improve the web design and tailor it to your needs. in other words, brand it. there is also a fully functional shortcode which you can place on your website. although it is free, mailchimp subscribe form does not include “powered by” or “created by” message, making you appear more professional. more info / download easy forms for mailchimp with easy forms for mailchimp active on your site, you can add any number of forms to your posts, pages and sidebar with the help of a shortcode. you can use multiple forms for the same list. using the mailchimp api key, this plugin pulls all the information in your mailchimp account and displays it for you on your dashboard. it also allows display of forms with inline fields, as well as the number of subscribers in a mailchimp list using shortcode. with a click you can duplicate forms, toggle between single and double optins, and enable or disable ajax on a per form basis. you can customize the button text, success / error messages display to subscribers, and customize using your own css as well. besides, you can enable or disable the default mailchimp welcome email and google recaptcha protection for your form. other features allow you to remove subscribers from the lists using the plugin interface, redirect subscribers after form submission, schedule the time or dates for visibility of the forms, view stats and manage users and list settings. the plugin integrates smoothly with woocommerce, easy digital downloads, contact form 7, buddypress and bbpress. this makes it easy for you to add mailchimp optin checkboxes to the forms generated by these plugins. a number of free and paid add-ons such as eu compliance, popups and incentives are available to add to the functionality of the plugin. more info / download mailoptin whether you run a blog or a business page, you better think of using a free wordpress mailchimp plugin to step up your game and get your business growing. with mailoptin, you can capture leads and scale your mailing list accordingly. if you are already doing a spectacular job on the front-end (read your website), you can do oh so much on the back-end (read email marketing). with a strategically executed pop-ups, opt-in forms and newsletters for mailchimp you can keep your users and readers engaged and ready to take action. some of the countless features of mailoptin are call-to-action buttons, page level targeting, newsletter scheduling, after conversion actions and widgets to place on your page. of course, you are getting a lot more and this is just the light version of the amazing and easy to use mailchimp plugin, mailoptin. moreover, when you grow beyond the free features, you can always upgrade to the premium plan and bring things to an entirely new degree. with mailoptin, a lot is possible so get it now and start making moves that will help you attain desired results much simpler and quicker. more info / download woocommerce mailchimp woocommerce mailchimp is the plugin to use to integrate your woocommerce with mailchimp. as soon as an order is created, or processed or completed, the subscriber is automatically added to the mailchimp list and if you wish, to interest groups as well. this is done discreetly with optin settings that comply with international optin laws. you can also display an optin checkbox on the checkout page and select the default setting for the same. the plugin is multisite compatible and a pro version is also available. more info / download mailchimp user sync mailchimp user sync allows you to synchronize your registered wordpress users with any mailchimp list of your choice. it monitors your user base and automatically synchronizes any change so that your user base is always identical to your mailchimp lists. it not only adds the new wordpress subscribers to the mailchimp lists, it also syncs any changes in the members’ profiles. so any change in address or email or other details is automatically updated. deletions are also updated and you can sync all user roles, or select user roles such as customers or suppliers. you can also choose to offer double optin and send out welcome emails to new subscribers. this plugin requires that you install mailchimp for wordpress first. you can configure the plugin to sync all the back data from mailchimp. another great add-on to mailchimp for wordpress is the mailchimp top bar. it adds beautiful subscription forms to the top bar of your wordpress website, where it’s sure to get noticed. more info / download premium wordpress plugins for mailchimp some premium plugins are also available to integrate your mailchimp account with your wordpress. they go beyond offering basic forms and include enhanced customization options and support from the plugin authors. advanced mailchimp integration with arforms okay, first and foremost, this wordpress mailchimp plugin only works if you are already rocking arforms. if not, well, get the tool first and come back later. anyhow, advanced mailchimp integration with arforms is a convenient extension that unlocks more fields that are passed through to mailchimp. skip the basic fields only and step it up with this cracking extension. for instance, new fields can include a phone number, gender, birthdate, hobbies and a whole lot more. when you implement advanced mailchimp integration with arforms, you can gain a lot more information about your users. from then on, you can create custom email campaigns for different users and fine-tune each accordingly. the configuration is pretty straightforward, making sure you will have no trouble getting things to work smoothly for you. more info / purchase contact buttons contact buttons is a versatile wordpress plugin with loads of different options and solutions to add to your existing websites and blog. of course, contact buttons also comes with mailchimp subscription form. in short, it is an all-in-one button that brings to the table all and everything you need. from social media, emails and chat to buy it now buttons, they are all in the bundle. to be more precise, contact buttons includes well over thirty predefined buttons for your convenience. enabling and disabling different buttons is easy as pie. it supports both vertical (top or bottom) and horizontal (left and right) positions, as well as scroll animations. needless to say, the layout is 100% responsive and mobile-ready, working on all web browsers flawlessly, too. besides, there are helpful instructions and friendly support at your disposal to take to your advantage at any time. more info / purchase mailchimp forms by wd mailchimp forms by wd is available both as a free and paid plugin. it helps you create multiple optin / opt out forms, and build and manage your lists. when users submit a form on your website, the plugin automatically adds them to your mailing list. you can create the lists on mailchimp, and then view and manage them from your wordpress dashboard. the free plugin allows submission of any number of responsive forms with conditional logic and formatting. it helps you manage form submissions, export them in csv or xml format and manage your mailchimp lists. when you move on to the premium packages, the features on offer include ten customizable themes, customizable form builder, custom fields and custom emails. form display options include embedded, scrollbar, toolbar and popup box, and each comes with its own customization possibilities. you can customize every aspect of the form, and use a drag and drop builder to order the fields as you wish. these packages also allow integration with paypal payment gateway. setting up the plugin is easy and you can manage every list from your admin area. on submitting a form, subscribers can see customized success / error messages. to avoid spammy form submission, you can enable a variety of captcha options. more info / purchase to conclude mailchimp is now a leading email subscription provider, that both small and big name companies rely on in a big way. the wordpress plugins on this list can help you grow your mailchimp lists automatically and manage them from your wordpress dashboard. you can customize the forms to show or hide fields using conditional logic to improve the quality of your lists, and protect your forms from spam using captchas. if you are blogging and plan to increase your subscriber base, mailchimp and wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration are fine aids to your website. if you plan to collect leads aggressively to grow your consumer base, you can also choose to go with lead generating plugins such as thrive leads. this plugin integrates smoothly with many email marketing services and marketing platforms including mailchimp. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress free pluginswordpress pluginswordpress plugins for mailchimp share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts the best free wordpress font plugins to change fonts with ease 2020 a major and important part of any web design is typography. the type of fonts… top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro i've already discussed what causes unplanned downtime and what unplanned downtime might cost a business… 10 organized wordpress file manager plugins when you go over the internet, you’ll find several file managers to get your project… top 10 wordpress email subscription plugins if you are an online entrepreneur, you probably know the importance of newsletter to your… 21 best free wordpress live chat plugins for 2020 today we would like to look into wordpress chat plugins to compare and find the… top 15 review plugins for wordpress with schema markup 2020 online reviews have become one of the biggest monopolies of the modern technology era. the… this post has one comment maker says: at hi aigars, great plugins for mailchimp integration, glad to read your post. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2019 next post: top 26 jquery form plugins and effects 2019 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×