empowering, inspiring, award-winning & my grandma says you’ll love it…. signup! close home ec services ask the green mama ratings/reviews press contributing authors affiliates be local. shop local. live local events green mama products tags about blog the books green mama green mama-to-be shop explore join the tribe >> get inspired & informed: the green mama blog you are here: the green mama > the green mama blog the green mama blog green living & renovations health, wellness & beauty parenting & rhythm ratings & reviews recipes & life-hacks the complexity of simple babo botanicals hydrating lip luminizer is a truly pretty, green, and healthy lip-gloss posted: march 10, 2020 ...by z. »read more the alchemy of hope posted: december 6, 2019 ...by manda “the dark is rising,” i say to my friend, vanessa, a photographer who has called to tell me how a bird fell out of the sky and landed at her feet, dead, during her morning walk. she is obsessed with birds. she has hundreds of them in her freezer. songbirds collected and given a second...read more »read more the ultimate book lovers book guide posted: december 4, 2019 ...by manda i love reading. my children love reading. much of our family culture is modeled around reading. i read for work and for pleasure everyday and most days i also read to my children for at least an hour. thanks to the advent of audiobooks, i also listen to hours of audiobooks. indeed, my children are...read more »read more not home for the holidays – military (& other distant-loving) families survival guide posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda what to do when your family isn’t together over the holidays [i recently contributed a tip to military travel mama on budgeting tips for families and i asked her to contribute something about what it’s like to create a family when often there are thousands of miles and many, many weeks between visits. while my...read more »read more greening christmas (hanukkah or any other holiday) posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda 'tis the season. the lights of hanukkah will soon fade into the past and the lights of christmas are on the horizon. parents everywhere are thinking about gifts. it is one of the questions i am most asked: "how do i green celebrations?" the winter holidays are a test for most of us: wanting to please our children, wanting to have more money, wanting less stuff, wanting to please our relatives. »read more the real meaning of christmas, hannukah, kwanzaa, & more! posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda if there is anything universal about faith these days, it’s that everybody seems unsure what to do about christmas. even many christian families struggle with this question, watching the entire holiday being pulled towards excessive consumerism with its associated spending and waste. in my family, my husband and i represent four very different religious...read more »read more mama to mama: holiday traditions posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda mama to mama: holiday traditions feliz navidad! i have two young boys. christmas is, understandably, their favorite holiday. (thanksgiving is mine.) and as we are hispanic, our family traditions are spanish in origin. on the 1st of december, i place the nativity crèche “stable” out. every sunday, we add a few animals, palm trees and angels....read more »read more carbon sync: the greener christmas tree posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda »read more the green mama gift guide–mama to mama winter holiday suggestions posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda meaningful, ethical, green & (not-too-late) gift ideas for the kids and mamas in your life want presents this holiday that are less about stuff, yet still allow you to enjoy the act of giving and receiving? of course you do. here’s a look of what some of our thegreenmama.com team are doing! (and, yes, this...read more »read more how to choose the greenest christmas tree posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda greening your christmas tree if you want to go even greener with your christmas tree purchase, there are a variety of other options available to you. 1. buy a live, potted tree. my family has done this for years. most pine trees can live for many years in a pot or you can replant the...read more »read more six tips for adding meaning (& reducing stuff) this winter holiday posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda six tips for getting more meaning (& less stuff) into your winter holiday whether you celebrate hannukah, christmas, solstice, or something (or nothing) else 1. have a conversation with your partner and older children about the traditions and values that resonate most and that you want to celebrate and strengthen. similarly, discuss what you don’t...read more »read more how to celebrate advent posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda how to celebrate advent simply, no matter what your faith this is not really a “how to” in any sort of prescriptive way. i like the simplicity of that title. advent is defined as the four sundays that lead up to christmas. yet, in my family, where we celebrate hannukah, christmas, and the big event...read more »read more how to create magic in your holidays posted: december 1, 2019 ...by manda how to create more magic in your holidays, regardless of what you believe you don’t have to believe in magic yourself to create magic. but, if you would like to know why it is so important that children believe in magic, i encourage you to read the green mama article on it. in the article...read more »read more candles: the toxic truth, safer option, beeswax candle diy posted: november 21, 2019 ...by manda candles are a lovely way to add a celebratory feeling to a birthday, chase a little of the dark away during the holiday season, or grace a dinner table. unfortunately, most candles release toxins into the air and, then, into the body of your family. regular candles are made of paraffin wax which is basically...read more »read more inspirational wednesday: an interview with brad major of carbon sync posted: november 12, 2019 ...by manda i fell in love with vancouver’s newest christmas tree rental company because they are so much more than even that (which is a pretty cool thing in and of itself). so, just how green can your christmas tree be? i did an interview with carbon sync‘s founder brad major to find out. 1. how did...read more »read more understanding how to turn learning disorders & differences & dyslexia into gifts posted: may 7, 2019 ...by manda can learning challenges be gifts in disguise it was a great surprise when i realized my clearly bright, gifted daughter struggled with reading, writing, counting… really, with words and symbols of all sorts. in some ways, i continue to be shocked by it though we are years past her official diagnosis and our family’s embracement...read more »read more empowering, inspiring, award-winning & my grandma says you’ll love it…. signup! most read this month five steps to changing any behavior through storytelling <read more> the green mama recipe box spice it up... <read more> green life hacks be a green hacker... <read more> everything baby green baby 101... <read more> green cleaning & organizing tips... <read more> in search of the practical life essays, art, poetry, and inspiration <read more> school days <read more> mama-to-mama skip the iffy parenting advice and let's share what works (and doesn't) <read more> cross-cultural parenting <read more> page 1 of 1612345...10...»last » featured content from around the site... ask the green mama your green questions answered real vs plastic christmas tree? do i lie about santa claus and what about the other holiday myths? how do i find a nontoxic baby crib that doesn’t cost a fortune? my child has cavities, why and now what? how do i live with lead paint & a young child? ratings & reviews the best green product ratings/reviews in the marketplace babo botanicals hydrating lip luminizer is a truly pretty, green, and healthy lip-gloss carbon sync: the greener christmas tree best board games for families inbed organics: a truly natural, organic mattress the green mama car review of the mitsubishi ev recipes & life hacks your homesteading tool box: recipes, crafts, diy, and more how to celebrate advent candles: the toxic truth, safer option, beeswax candle diy how to detoxify your personal lubricant, find healthier options, and make your own organic lube diy deodorants: safer, healthier, nontoxic alternatives how to safely clean an oven ⇡ © the green mama 2006-2020 privacy policy terms & conditions the review process contributor login the green mama participates in affiliate programs, e.g. amazon services llc associates, designed to provide a means to earn $ by advertising/linking to sites such as amazon.com, without costing the buyer. i only link to products that meet green & ethical guidelines. learn more. join the tribe >>