start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email the truth is, there are many “money saving guides” online, but most don’t cover the root issue for not saving. once i’d discovered a few key factors that allowed me to save 10k in one year, i realized why most articles couldn’t help me. the problem is that even with the right strategies you can still fail to save money. you need to have the right systems in place and the right mindset. in this guide, i’ll cover the best ways to save money — practical yet powerful steps you can take to start saving more. it won’t be easy but with hard work, i’m confident you’ll be able to save more money–even if you’re an impulsive spender. table of contents why your past prevents you from saving money how to effortlessly track your spending the truth on why you keep failing how to foolproof yourself out of debt a proven formula to skyrocket your savings transform yourself into a saving money machine why your past prevents you from saving money are you constantly thinking about your financial mistakes? if so, these thoughts are holding you back from saving. i get it, you wish you could go back in time to avoid your financial downfalls. but dwelling over your past will only rob you from your future. instead, reflect on your mistakes and ask yourself what lessons you can learn from them. it wasn’t easy for me to accept that i had accumulated thousands of dollars in credit card debt. once i did, i started heading in the right direction. embrace your past failures and use them as an opportunity to set new financial goals. for example, after accepting that you’re thousands of dollars in debt create a plan to be debt free in a year or two. this way when you’ll be at peace even when you get negative thoughts about your finances. now you can focus more time on saving and less on your past financial mistakes. advertising how to effortlessly track your spending stop manually tracking your spending. leverage powerful analytic tools such as personal capital and these money management apps to do the work for you. this tool has worked for me and has kept me motivated to why i’m saving in the first place. once you login to your personal capital dashboard, you’re able to view your net worth. when i’d first signed up with personal capital, i had a negative net worth, but this motivated me to save more. with this tool, you can also view your spending patterns, expenses, and how much money you’re saving. use your net worth as your north star to saving more. whenever you experience financial setbacks, view how far you’ve come along. saving money is only half the battle, being consistent is the other half. the truth on why you keep failing saving money isn’t sexy. if it was, wouldn’t everyone be doing it? some people are natural savers, but most are impulsive spenders. instead of denying that you’re an impulsive spender, embrace it. don’t try to save 60 to 70% of your income if this means you’ll live a miserable life. saving money isn’t a race but a marathon. you’re saving for retirement and for large purchases. if you’re currently having a hard time saving, start spending more money on nice things. this may sound counterintuitive but hear me out. wouldn’t it be better to save $200 each month for 12 months instead of $500 for 3 months? advertising most people run into trouble because they create budgets that set them up for failure. this system won’t work for those who are frugal, but chances are they don’t need help saving. this system is for those who can’t save money and need to be rewarded for their hard work. only because you’re buying nice things doesn’t mean that you’ll save less. here are some rules you should have in place: save more than 50% of your available money (after expenses) only buy nice things after saving automate your savings with automatic bank transfers these are the same rules that helped me save thousands each year while buying the latest iphone. focus only on items that are important to you. remember, you can afford anything but not everything. how to foolproof yourself out of debt personal finance is a game. on one end, you’re earning money; and on the to other, you’re saving. but what ends up counting in the end isn’t how much you earn but how much you save. research shows that about 60% of americans spend more than they save.[1] so how can you separate yourself from the 60%? by not accumulating more debt. this way you’ll have more money to save and avoid having more financial obligations. a great way to stop accumulating debt is using cash to pay for all your transactions. this will be challenging, depending on how reliant you are with your credit card, but it’s worth the effort. not only will you stop accruing debt, but you’ll also be more conscious with what you buy. for example, you’ll think twice about purchasing a new $200 headphone despite having the cash to buy them. according to a poll conducted by the creditcards.com, 5 out of 6 americans are impulsive spenders.[2] advertising telling yourself that you’ll have the discipline to not buy things won’t cut it. this is equal to having junk food in your fridge while trying to eat healthy–it’s only a matter of time before you slip. by using cash to make your purchases, you’ll spend less and save more. a proven formula to skyrocket your savings having proven systems in place to help you save more is important, but they’re not the best way to save money. you can search for dozens of ways to save money, but there’ll always be a limit. instead of spending the majority of your effort saving, look for ways to increase your income. the truth is that once you have the right systems in place, saving is easy. what’s challenging is earning more money. there are many routes you can take to achieve this. for example, you can work long and hard at your current job to earn a raise. but there’s one problem–you’re depending on someone else to give you a raise. your company will have to have the budget, and you’ll have to know how to toot your own horn to get this raise. this isn’t to say that earning a raise is impossible, but things are better when you’re in control right? that’s why building a side-hustle is the best way to increase your income. think of your side-hustle as a part-time job doing something you enjoy. you can sell items on ebay for a profit, or design websites for small businesses. building a side-hustle will be on the hardest things you’ll do, be too stubborn to quit. during the early stages, you won’t be making money and that’s okay. since you already have a source of income, you won’t be dependent on your side-hustle to pay for your expenses. depending on how much time you invest in your side-hustle, it can one day replace your current income. whatever route you take, focus more on earning and save as much as possible. you have more control than you give yourself credit for. advertising transform yourself into a saving money machine saving money isn’t complicated but it’s one of the hardest things you’ll do. by learning from your mistakes and rewarding yourself after saving you’ll save more. what would you do with an extra $200 or $500 each month? to some, this is life-changing money that can improve the quality of their lives. the truth is saving money is an art. save too much and you’ll quit, but save too little and you’ll pay for the consequences in the future. saving money takes effort and having the right systems in place. imagine if you’d started saving an extra $100 this next month? or, saved $20k in one year? although it’s hard to imagine, this can be your reality if you follow the principles covered in this guide. take a moment to brainstorm which goals you’d be able to reach if you had extra money each month. use these goals as motivation to help you stay on track on your journey to saving more. if i was able to save thousands of dollars with little guidance, imagine what you’ll be able to do. what are you waiting for? go and start saving money, the sky is your limit. featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ finra: financial capability in the united states 2016 [2] ^ the creditcards.com: survey: 5 in 6 americans admit to impulse buys share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) 11 strengths all great leaders have advertising advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.