 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the best seo (search engine optimization) tools 2020 written by anya skrba updated: february 28, 2020 facebook twitter pinterest linkedin with a seemingly endless number of websites nowadays, it is close to impossible to achieve good traffic unless you are using appropriate seo tools. however, there are many such tools available on the market, so people often feel overwhelmed when they need to choose the most appropriate solution for their needs. that is why we have created this page, where you can find out more about these powerful tools, the ways in which they can help you, as well as the best options to choose from! the beginner’s guide to seo learn everything you need to know about search engine optimization, its importance, and all of the essential factors for achieving the rankings you’ve always hoped for. read the guide what is seo? search engine optimization, or seo for short, is a marketing-related discipline which focuses on increasing visibility in organic search engine results. it is used for driving traffic, improving rankings, and increasing recognition of your newly created website in search engines. ultimately, seo is about ensuring that your website is structured and designed in a way that search engines will understand and thus make it easier for people to find you. the first and most important step to achieving that is coming up with the right keywords – the ones that are relevant for the content of your website, and the ones that have low competition and a high search volume. apart from crafting your content and finding the appropriate keywords, you need to optimize your code and build links, and the best way to do that is by incorporating seo tools. why do you need seo tools? if you implement the right seo tools, your website will be able to rank high in searches, thus acquiring higher visibility and more targeted traffic – a higher ranking directly leads to more visitors. these powerful tools can help you improve your online presence, get a higher roi, and bring more profit in the long run. you want to create quality content based on keywords that rate high, but identifying them will require time consuming and extensive research. using the right seo tools can save you a lot of valuable time when it comes to keyword research. in addition, they will help you optimize your content, so that you can gain credibility and authority on the web. moreover, seo tools enable you to closely study your competition in order to make sure that you are always one step ahead of them. our recommended seo tool semrush benefit from your competitors! develop perfect content and advertising strategies. visit semrush list of the most popular seo tools now that we have covered the benefits of using these tools, it’s time to go over some of the best options out there. here is a list of highly effective and popular seo tools that will help you transform your website: ahrefs ahrefs.com is a well-known toolset for backlinks and seo analysis. most people think of ahrefs as a powerful “backlink checker” tool. but in reality, “checking backlinks” is just one of the many things that you can do with their huge data index. visit ahrefs semrush semrush is a tool that is specific to finding profitable keywords. many new and older bloggers are using it to optimize their sites, create the content their audience wants and create a better experience for their visitors. visit semrush kwfinder kwfinder is an easy-to-use keyword research tool bringing perfect keyword ideas. it helps you find long tail keywords with low seo difficulty. visit kwfinder screaming frog seo spider the seo spider is a desktop program/website crawler, that allows you to crawl websites’ urls and fetch key onsite elements to analyse onsite seo. visit screaming frog seo spider moz pro moz pro is moz’s all-in-one suite of seo tools. it ties together keyword research metrics by collecting data on websites across four search engines to provide you with seo analytics and insights. visit moz pro google search console google search console is a free service offered by google that helps you monitor and maintain your site’s presence in google search results. visit google search console longtail pro long tail pro is a keyword research tool for long tail keywords that helps you discover thousands of profitable, targeted keywords and calculate keyword competitiveness for almost any niche. visit longtail pro google keyword planner google adwords keyword planner is a keyword research tool that allows you to find the rightkeywords to target for display ads, search ads, video ads, and app ads. visit google keyword planner wordtracker wordtracker is a free keyword research tool. you can save your keyword lists, filter them in the tool and find the keywords you need for every page all in one place. visit wordtracker linkbird linkbird is a content marketing software for more online visibility via content marketing, seo, link building and online pr. visit linkbird woorank seo checker & instant website reviewer you can use to analyze and optimize unlimited websites. visit woorank se ranking se ranking is a fully automated universal google rankings checker with 100% accurate results. visit se ranking marketgoo diy seo tool great for small businesses – includes a free seo report and a 10 day free trial of the paid seo tool that guides you in optimizing your site for better search engine rankings and more traffic. visit marketgoo raven raven provides detailed seo audit reports that show progress over time, track your ranking changes on serps to see if those onsite changes did the job. identify potential backlink sources, manage and report your progress. visit raven netpeak spider netpeak spider is a desktop tool which crawls your website like a search engine robot and detects key seo issues that influence the website’s visibility in serp. visit netpeak spider seo powersuite seo powersuite is an all-in-one toolkit that covers every step of an seo campaign of any caliber, from rankings and website audit to backlink research and link building. with its intuitive ui and a wealth of pro-level features, it’s a perfect fit for seo newbies and experts alike. visit seo powersuite serpstat serpstat is a toolkit for seo & ppc keyword research, backlink analysis, rank tracking, keyword clustering, and more. its keyword and competitor analysis data cover all the google regions in the world. visit serpstat pulno pulno is a toolset for seo analysis. it provides detailed seo audits with such parameters as page speed, meta descriptions, duplicate content check, backlinks, keyword analysis and many more. visit pulno conclusion if you want your website to really be successful, using seo tools is a must. so, after learning about some of the basics and the importance of seo, be sure to try the above-mentioned tools which are guaranteed to help you meet your objectives. 15 comments on “the best seo (search engine optimization) tools 2020” clara tribbiani january 14, 2020 at 8:41 am great article, thank you. i have been using kw finder until now. i will also go through the other sites as well. reply anya skrba january 17, 2020 at 10:08 am thanks clara. glad that you find the list useful. reply dane murphy october 29, 2019 at 8:49 am thanks for sharing this list…it is very helpful! reply anya skrba october 29, 2019 at 9:03 am thanks dane. glad that you find it useful! reply riya october 24, 2019 at 10:21 am thank you for sharing amazing information about the best seo tools to be used for the website. i am using search console till now but i will try other tools which you mention here in this article. keep up the good work. reply anya skrba october 29, 2019 at 8:43 am thanks riya! reply chris wagner september 16, 2019 at 3:38 am hey anya, these are the great tools you have mentioned in this post. i was not familiar about serpstat 🙂 reply anya skrba september 23, 2019 at 9:41 am thanks chris. hope they will be of use for you. let us know if you have any other questions! reply mercy august 21, 2019 at 10:30 am hi, thanks for listing out different tools which am not familiar with. i just heard about semrush. after reading your article i learned about different tools in seo. reply anya skrba august 23, 2019 at 9:00 am there are many great seo tools and i’m glad you got familiar with something new! speaking of semrush it’s a good tool to use as it’s specific to finding profitable keywords. reply mercy august 24, 2019 at 4:44 am hey anya, thanks for your response and also for your suggestion to use semrush tool. surely i will use this from now. reply anya skrba august 26, 2019 at 8:43 am anytime! 🙂 do not hesitate to reach out if you need any further help about anything else – we are here for you. reply kbizsoft august 5, 2019 at 10:54 am hey, thank you for such a great article. i found semrush through your blog and now it’s on the top of my favorite seo tools list. thank you once again. reply anil april 13, 2019 at 4:21 am kwfinder is the best tool for me. it’s finding keyword difficulty, competitor and search volume. so, i like it. reply aman february 13, 2019 at 8:08 pm nice article. semrush is the best seo tool to figure out website traffic and keywords. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.