tao of wp wp themes bookstore sign in contact testimonials this site relies on javascript for full functionality. please revisit in a javascript-enabled browser. current to wordpress 5.3 the tao of wordpress learn the way of wordpress get the book the tao of wordpress is the complete guide for anyone who wants to succeed with wordpress. this a-to-z guide is packed with current techniques, practical advice, and plenty of real-world examples to make everything crystal clear. but don’t take my word for it, check out what readers are saying a to z complete guide covers hosting, software, wordpress, and beyond. customize learn how to customize wordpress easily to create the perfect website. here & now learn more in less time with clear writing and concise tutorials. bonus theme the tao of wordpress theme showcases wordpress’ best features. cutting edge learn about the latest plugins for performance, security, seo and more. go in style absorb clear material with clean layout and easy-to-read typography. check out the demo from beginner to intermediate and beyond if you’re familiar with surfing the web, you have the experience needed to succeed with wordpress. the tao of wordpress guides you through the entire process of setting up, finding a good host, configuring, customizing, securing, optimizing, and beyond. wordpress makes your vision a reality as the world's number one publishing platform, wordpress has thousands of plugins and themes for creating just about any type of website imaginable. discover some of the latest and greatest techniques for building awesome sites with wordpress. learn how to set up, configure and customize wordpress, from start to finish. unfold the secrets of the admin area and learn how to do more with less effort. learn how to secure your site against spam, bad bots and other threats. learn how to optimize your site for mobile visitors, search engines and everyone else. learn how theme templates work and how to customize your site exactly as you want it. learn how to integrate your site with social media like twitter, facebook and google. learn how to add chat forums, social networks, bulletin boards, e-commerce sites and more. wordpress zen the tao of wordpress shows you how to use built-in settings, plugins, and themes to build awesome wordpress-powered sites. learn how to get the most out of wordpress by using it for what it is, effortlessly and intuitively through the admin area. take the journey, unlock the power of wordpress like a zen master and build anything you can imagine. learn more, do more, in less time. skip the piecemeal searching and hit-or-miss tutorials. grab a cup of your favorite beverage and learn wordpress in style. the tao of wordpress takes you on a refreshingly relaxed yet concise journey through every step. along the way, you’ll learn how to let wordpress work for you. so you can do more in less time. more signal, less noise, you win. every drop of the book is carefully distilled, refined, and 100% focused on wordpress. from the “big picture” down to the smallest detail, the tao of wordpress explains the steps, tools and techniques required to achieve your goals. whether you’re a true beginner or experienced user, this book will help boost your skills to the next level. focused simplified clarified demystified visualized symbolized chapter overview the tao of wordpress assumes only that you have some basic experience working online. the book begins by helping you get set up with all the right tools and the best possible hosting. from there, you’ll learn how to install, configure, secure, optimize, and customize wordpress to do most anything. here is an overview of the chapters in the book: welcome preparation installation configuration themes plugins security performance seo customization techniques tips & tricks for everyone the tao of wordpress is a guide for anyone who wants to rock with wordpress: students, designers, enthusiasts, admins, experts and everyone. to get the most from the book, you should be familiar with surfing and working on the web. if you have a desire to build awesome sites and succeed with wordpress, this book will help make it a reality. learn wordpress in style every page is meticulously designed and highly focused on making the most of wordpress. every lesson is explained in simple steps, with the amount of complex code kept to an absolute minimum. it’s a stylish book with many great features. the tao of wordpress begins with the basics and slowly ramps up to more advanced lessons. along the way, the book provides techniques, tricks & tips, and links to over 500 external resources. you get a complete, continuous journey focusing on wordpress essentials, and learn the best resources for additional options and details. check out the demo | read testimonials book features full color step-by-step guide searchable pdf format copy/paste code examples lots of sweet diagrams clear & easy to read 13 chapters / 320 pages 500+ external resources at-a-glance notes tips & tricks get the book pdf book + theme tao of wordpress pdf exclusive tao of wp theme access to the members area $30 buy now full meal deal tao of wordpress pdf exclusive tao of wp theme access to the members area widescreen & lite versions free lifetime updates $38 buy now bundle & save! bundle with any of my other books: wordpress themes in depth digging into wordpress .htaccess made easy 20% off shop bundles 100% satisfaction guarantee details exclusive starter theme book purchase includes the tao of wordpress theme. the tao theme is lightweight, flexible, responsive, and showcases wordpress’ best features. includes code for custom backgrounds and headers, featured images, custom post formats, sticky posts, navigation menus, video embeds, twitter embeds, and much more. each theme template file contains squeaky clean code with plenty of inline notes and references to useful resources. it’s an ideal tool for learning how to build and customize awesome wordpress themes. tweet follow @perishable support support requests? questions? send ’em! check us out on facebook! about jeff starr is a professional developer, designer, author, and publisher with over 15 years of experience. he writes books and tutorials, develops plugins, and runs his own business. books .htaccess made easy digging into wordpress the tao of wordpress wordpress themes in depth © 2020 monzilla media ★ the tao of wordpress published by perishable press ★ shapespace ★ sitemap ★ privacy ★ made in the usa remember me forgot password? get the book! sign in contact questions? comments? send ’em! your name your email subject message the details full meal deal includes everything plus free downloads of all book updates and extras. pdf + theme deal includes the book, theme, and free downloads of minor book updates and extras. for example, if you purchase version 3.0 of the book, you would get versions 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, but not versions 4.0, 4.1, 4.2, etc. single-user license: any purchase entitles you to create/use multiple copies of the book on different devices, but only for yourself (the book owner). note: all purchases are for pdf only – printed book not included. payment: perishable press books accepts major credit cards and payments via paypal (paypal verified). all purchases are non-recurring, one-time payment and done. can’t use paypal? we also accept direct payments via credit card or bitcoin. contact us for details. uh-oh.. there was an issue, please try again or contact us for help. members area | bookstore | contact thank you!