see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial customer service the 16 most important customer service skills see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login customer service latest articles popular growth customer service culture product the 16 most important customer service skills gregory ciotti november 8, 2019 in lists of customer service skills, things like “being a people person” often take the spotlight. but being a people person isn’t a skill — it’s a trait — so it’s not really actionable advice. you can’t develop the skill of being a people person, nor can you observe whether or not someone is a people person in an interview. so to put together our list, we asked two questions: what skills can customer service professionals develop to get better at their jobs, and what skills can leaders look for during interviews to make sure they’re hiring the right people? the result: a list of skills — not traits — that are both developable and observable. here are the 16 customer service skills that are necessary for success in this key role. 1. patience patience is crucial for customer service professionals. after all, customers who reach out to support are often confused and frustrated. being listened to and handled with patience goes a long way in helping customers feel like you’re going to alleviate their current frustrations. but patience among customer service teams is also important to the business at large because great service beats fast service every single time. it’s not enough to close out interactions with customers as quickly as possible. you have to be willing to take the time to listen and fully understand each customer’s problems and needs. if you deal with customers on a daily basis, be sure to stay patient when they come to you stumped and frustrated, but also be sure to take the time to truly figure out what they truly need. 2. attentiveness the ability to truly listen to customers is crucial to providing great service for a number of reasons. not only is it important to pay attention to individual customers’ experiences, but it’s also important to be mindful and attentive to the feedback that you receive at large. for instance, customers may not be saying it outright, but perhaps there is a pervasive feeling that your software’s dashboard isn’t laid out correctly. customers aren’t likely to say, “please improve your ux,” but they may say things like, “i can never find the search feature” or “where is the _____ function, again?” you have to be attentive to pick up on what your customers are telling you without directly saying it. 3. ability to communicate clearly it’s important to be mindful of how some of your communication habits translate to customers, and it’s best to err on the side of caution whenever you find yourself questioning a situation. more importantly, you need to be cautious about how some of your communication habits translate to customers, and it’s best to err on the side of caution whenever you find yourself questioning a situation. an example: the last time i went to get work done on my car, i was told by an employee that if i wanted to get an oil change, it would be “included” in my final bill. i thought that meant i’d be getting it for free, yet as it turns out, that wasn’t the case. the employee apologized — and i truly believe it was an accident — but i haven’t been back to that shop since because of the miscommunication. when it comes to important points that you need to relay clearly to customers, keep it simple and leave nothing to doubt. free pdf: how to talk to your customers communicating with customers is an art, a science ... and a competitive differentiator. get your own free copy of this comprehensive guide to talking with customers. 4. knowledge of the product the best customer service professionals have a deep knowledge of how their companies’ products work. after all, without knowing your product from front to back, you won’t know how to help customers when they run into problems. take the time to get to know your company’s product as well as a customer who uses it every day does. every new help scout employee, for example, is trained on customer support during their first or second week on the job — it’s a critical component of our employee onboarding process. knowing the product that you support inside and out is mission critical for anyone in support,” says help scout support team member elyse roach. “having that solid product foundation not only ensures you’ve got the best tricks up your sleeve to help customers navigate even the most complex situations, it also helps you build understanding about their experience so that you can become their strongest advocate.” 5. ability to use positive language effective customer service means having the ability to make minor changes in your conversational patterns. this can truly go a long way in creating happy customers. language is a crucial part of persuasion, and people (especially customers) create perceptions about you and your company based on the language that you use. for example, let’s say a customer contacts you with an interest in a particular product, but that product happens to be back-ordered until next month. responding to questions with positive language can greatly affect how the customer hears your response. without positive language: “i can’t get you that product until next month; it is back-ordered and unavailable at this time.” with positive language: “that product will be available next month. i can place the order for you right now and make sure that it is sent to you as soon as it reaches our warehouse.” the first example isn’t negative per se, but the tone it conveys feels abrupt and impersonal and could be taken the wrong way by customers — especially in email support when the perception of written language can skew negative. conversely, the second example is stating the same thing (the item is unavailable), but it focuses on when and how the issue will be resolved instead of focusing on the negative. 6. acting skills sometimes you’re going to come across people that you’ll never be able to make happy. situations outside of your control (they had a terrible day, or they are just a natural-born complainer) will sometimes creep into your usual support routine, and you’ll be greeted with those “barnacle” customers that seem to want nothing else but to pull you down. every great customer service professional needs basic acting skills to maintain their usual cheery persona in spite of dealing with people who are just plain grumpy. related: how to deal with difficult customers 7. time management skills on the one hand, it’s good to be patient and spend a little extra time with customers to understand their problems and needs. on the other hand, there is a limit to the amount of time you can dedicate to each customer, so you need to be concerned with getting customers what they want in an efficient manner. the trick here is applying your time management skills when realizing when you simply cannot help a customer. if you don’t know the solution to a problem, the best kind of support professional will get a customer over to someone who does. don’t waste time trying to go above and beyond for a customer in an area where you will just end up wasting both of your time! 8. ability to read customers you won’t always be able to see customers face-to-face, and in many instances, you won’t even hear a customer’s voice. but that doesn’t exempt you from understanding some basic principles of behavioral psychology and being able to read the customer’s current emotional state. you don’t want to misread a customer and end up losing them due to confusion and miscommunication. as emily triplett lentz wrote in boost customer happiness with exclamations and emoticons: “i rarely use a smiley face in a support email when the customer’s signature includes ‘phd,’ for example — not that academics are humorless, just that ‘:)’ isn’t likely to get you taken seriously by someone who spent five years deconstructing utopian undertones in nineteenth-century autobiographical fiction.” look and listen for subtle clues about their current mood, patience level, personality, etc., and you’ll go far in keeping your customer interactions positive. 9. unflappability there are a lot of metaphors for this type of personality: “keeps their cool,” “staying cool under pressure,” and so on, but it all represents the same thing: the ability some people have to stay calm and even influence others when things get a little hectic. i’ve had my fair share of hairy hosting situations, and i can tell you in all honesty that the #1 reason i stick with certain hosting companies is due to the ability of their customer support team to keep me from pulling my hair out. the best customer service reps know that they can’t let a heated customer force them to lose their cool. in fact, it is their job to try to be the “rock” for customers who think the world is falling apart as a result of their current problems. 10. goal-oriented focus this may seem like a strange thing to list as a good customer service skill, but i assure you it’s vitally important. in my article on empowering employees, i noted that many customer service experts have shown how giving employees unfettered power to “wow” customers doesn’t always generate the returns many businesses expect to see. that’s because it leaves employees without goals, and business goals and customer happiness can work hand-in-hand without resulting in poor service. relying on frameworks like the net promoter score can help businesses come up with guidelines for their employees that allow plenty of freedom to handle customers on a case-to-case basis, but also leave them priority solutions and “go-to” fixes for common problems. 11. ability to handle surprises sometimes the customer support world is going to throw you a curveball. maybe the problem you encounter isn’t specifically covered in the company’s guidelines, or maybe the customer isn’t reacting how you thought they would. whatever the case, it’s best to be able to think on your feet ... but it’s even better to create guidelines for yourself in these sorts of situations. let’s say, for instance, you want to come up with a quick system for when you come across a customer who has a product or service problem you’ve never seen before. you need to know: who? decide who should be your go-to person when you don’t know what to do. the ceo might be able to help you, but you can’t go to him/her with every single question. define a logical escalation path so you won’t be left wondering who you should reach out to. what? when the problem is noticeably out of your league, what are you going to send to the people above? the full conversation, just the important parts, or maybe some highlights and an example of a similar conversation? how? when it comes time to get someone else involved, how are you going to contact them? for instance, at help scout we use our own product to assign conversations to another team member, or @mention the person from whom we need help in a note within the conversation. deliver great customer service with help scout. watch a demo 12. persuasion skills experienced customer support personnel know that oftentimes, you’ll get messages in your inbox that are from people who aren’t looking for support; they’re considering purchasing your company’s product. to truly take your customer service skills to the next level, you need to have some mastery of persuasion so you can convince interested prospects that your product is right for them (if it truly is). it’s not about making a sales pitch in each email, but it is about not letting potential customers slip away because you couldn’t create a compelling message that your company’s product is worth purchasing! related: customer service quotes database — 500+ bits of wisdom to delight and inspire your team 13. tenacity call it what you want, but a great work ethic and a willingness to do what needs to be done (and not take shortcuts) is a key skill when providing the kind of service that people talk about. the most memorable customer service stories out there — many of which had a huge impact on the business — were created by a single employee who refused to just follow the standard process when it came to helping someone out. remembering that your customers are people too — and knowing that putting in the extra effort will come back to you ten-fold — should be your driving motivation to never cheat your customers with lazy service. 14. closing ability being able to close with a customer as a customer service professional means being able to end the conversation with confirmed customer satisfaction (or as close to it as you can achieve) and with the customer feeling that everything has been taken care of (or will be). getting booted before all of their problems have been addressed is the last thing that customers want, so be sure to take the time to confirm with customers that each and every issue they had was entirely resolved. your willingness to do this shows the customer three very important things: you care about getting it right. you're willing to keep going until you solve their problems. the customer is the one who determines what “right” is. you know the conversation is over when you get a customer to “yes, i’m all set!” 15. empathy perhaps empathy — the ability to understand and share the feelings of another — is more of a character trait than a skill. but since empathy can be learned and improved upon, we’d be remiss not to include it here. in fact, if your organization tests job applicants for customer service aptitude, you’d be hard pressed to look for a more critical skill than empathy. that’s because even when you can’t tell the customer exactly what they want to hear, a dose of care, concern and understanding will go a long way. a support rep’s ability to empathize with a customer and craft a message that steers things toward a better outcome can often make all the difference. 16. willingness to learn while this is probably the most general skill on this list, it’s also one of the most important. after all, willingness to learn is the basis for growing your skills as a customer service professional. you have to be willing to learn your product inside and out, willing to learn how to communicate better (and when you’re communicating poorly), willing to learn when it’s ok to follow a process and when it’s more appropriate to choose your own adventure. those who don’t seek to improve what they do — whether it’s building products, marketing businesses, or helping customers — will get left behind by the people who are willing to invest in their own skills. the good news: if you came across this article and read all the way to the bottom, you likely already have this skill! which of the 16 customer service skills addressed above do you feel is most important? are there any we missed? let us know in the comments! join 251,101 readers who are obsessed with delivering great customer service. expertly curated emails that’ll help you deliver an exceptional customer experience. gregory ciotti greg is a writer, marketing strategist and alum of help scout. connect with him on twitter and linkedin. please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus. recommended articles support the 27 best customer service books support 9 tips to improve your customer support game support the art of troubleshooting for customer support professionals support 16 tips from world-class customer service teams most popular customer service go-to scripts for handling 10 tricky customer service scenarios growth the psychology of color in marketing and branding customer service the 16 most important customer service skills join 251,101 readers who are obsessed with delivering great customer service. tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout