mywifequitherjob.com primary menu skip to content home back to start start hereget your store running our story who is steve chou? blog get the latest podcast subscribe & listen toolsproducts i love income reportstrack my online progress recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn steve chou leave a comment with the corona virus pandemic causing mass layoffs and record unemployment, it’s clear that recession 2020 has already begun. this post will outline everything that i’m personally doing to prepare for this downturn. first off, this is my 3rd recession. in my adult life, i’ve had the misfortune of living through 2 other downturns in 2002 and 2008. and during my first financial crisis, i was paralyzed in fear. while everything was crashing all around me, i hesitated and made wrong, emotional decisions out of panic. in 2002, i sat there on the sidelines and watched my stock portfolio plummet... read this post amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba steve chou leave a comment this post will teach you how to research and find potential amazon best sellers to sell online. but before we get into the details, you have to first understand what it takes to make the amazon best sellers list. these days, selling on amazon is much more difficult than it was in the past. not only is there rampant piracy selling on amazon but chinese sellers have almost completely taken over the amazon marketplace. in order to break free from the noise, the key to finding a potential amazon best seller is to choose a product that carries a strong unique value... read this post how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority steve chou 3 comments this post is a collection of principles i live by on how to get rich without sacrificing your family life. when it comes to business and life, my primary goal is to be the best dad that i can be. making money and getting rich are secondary objectives and most people don’t believe that you can have both. but if you approach building wealth with the proper mindset, then you can make lots of money and have the lifestyle you want at the same time. now i want to preface this post by saying that i’m not filthy rich. ... read this post amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? steve chou leave a comment this post will break down the pros and cons of amazon dropshipping and why making money this way is inherently risky and not a good long term business model. having been in ecommerce since 2007, i’ve seen many popular ecommerce business models crash and burn. and through all of the years that i’ve been doing this, one lesson always rings true. if it sounds too easy and too good to be true, then it probably won’t last. amazon dropshipping falls into this category. first off, i want to say that there is money to be made by dropshipping on amazon. ... read this post shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? steve chou leave a comment this article will compare shopify vs wix in the context of creating an online store that sells physical products online. both platforms have their pros and cons which will be clearly illustrated below. first off, shopify is well regarded as the industry leader in the ecommerce space. however, i’m often asked whether wix is a viable ecommerce alternative. why? it’s because right now, wix has over 190 million users worldwide. 190 million! that’s more than half the population of the united states! meanwhile, shopify is substantially smaller with only about 500k storefronts. both platforms have ecommerce features... read this post powerful quotes for entrepreneurs that will change your outlook on life steve chou 13 comments what i love about powerful quotes are that they provide you with a certain perspective that you may not have considered before. but once they resonate with you, they can completely change your outlook on life. the quotes that i’m about to present to you have drastically changed the way i approach business and entrepreneurship. in fact, they have enabled me to run a 7 figure ecommerce store, a 7 figure blog, a podcast, an online store course and a conference all while working a full time job with 2 kids. quick update: i have quit my job since the... read this post the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers steve chou 122 comments on a base level, selling on amazon is very straightforward. all you have to do is find a product with good margins/demand, list it on amazon, and it will eventually sell because amazon’s audience and reach is so vast. when my wife and i first learned how to sell on amazon fba several years ago, we sold over 60 units in a matter of 8 days with just 3 products listed online with no reviews. amazon is seriously that powerful. but with any business with low barriers to entry, there’s always going to be a ton of competition. right... read this post amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products steve chou 23 comments this detailed guide will teach you how to start an amazon fba business selling private label products step by step. here’s what you will learn.how to find a profitable product to sell on amazon how to setup your first amazon listing the correct way how to optimize your listings for maximum conversions how to get early exposure for your products how to run amazon pay per click ads the right way how to make the front page of amazon searchthe strategies described in this tutorial are primarily meant for private label sellers but they can be also be applied to other ecommerce business models as well.... read this post posts navigation 1 2 … 33 next → create a profitable online store! a completely free mini course on how to develop a niche ecommerce website in 5 easy steps! learn how to find products to sell and setup your online store. get the free course now! popular featured recent recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? powerful quotes for entrepreneurs that will change your outlook on life the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products fba calculator – hidden fees all amazon sellers should know about (updated for 2020) how to create a customer loyalty program using manychat and facebook messenger can high achievers live a balanced life? my take on the 4 burners theory postcard marketing – does direct mail work and what’s the roi? recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? powerful quotes for entrepreneurs that will change your outlook on life the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products fba calculator – hidden fees all amazon sellers should know about (updated for 2020) how to create a customer loyalty program using manychat and facebook messenger can high achievers live a balanced life? my take on the 4 burners theory postcard marketing – does direct mail work and what’s the roi? recession 2020 – 5 ways i’m preparing for the downturn amazon best sellers – how to pick top selling products for fba how to get rich – 20 lessons on making money when lifestyle is your priority amazon dropshipping – is this risky business model worth it? shopify vs wix – which is better for ecommerce? powerful quotes for entrepreneurs that will change your outlook on life the dangers of selling on amazon and horror stories from real amazon sellers amazon fba – a 2020 guide to selling private label products fba calculator – hidden fees all amazon sellers should know about (updated for 2020) how to create a customer loyalty program using manychat and facebook messenger can high achievers live a balanced life? my take on the 4 burners theory postcard marketing – does direct mail work and what’s the roi? where should i begin? read about our entrepreneurship story let's meet up at my ecommerce conference use the products i love and recommend learn how to start an ecommerce store for free learn how to start a blog for free get social about contact twitter facebook pinterest mywifequitherjob.com copyright 2020 all rights reserved. please read our privacy policy