skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about best web hosting for australia 2020 helping you find the best host for your site down-under find out the best hosting providers for australian websites despite being a modern country ripe with business opportunities, it’s not always easy to find reliable web hosting in australia. that’s because the country is still relatively disconnected to the outside world. having a solid internet connection still depends on undersea cables. unfortunately, australia’s aging submarine cables leave much to be desired in terms of connection speed and reliability. whether you own a small local business or an international corporation that serves clients all over the world, having a top-notch hosting service can make all the difference. while there are many aussie-run options on the market, you may want to consider other hosting providers to help your company reach its full potential. to help you find a provider that’s right for your needs, here’s some information you need to know. why does high-quality hosting matter? one of the biggest issues that you may face when you’re dealing with australian web hosting companies is speed. unfortunately, not every service is going to be optimized to handle traffic from around the globe. while you may have no problem accessing your website locally, it may be another story for your visitors. there are many factors that can contribute to connection speeds. it’s true that distance does play a role. the sheer distance between australia and the united states, for example, will require more time to establish a connection. however, a good hosting provider will minimize that lag as much as possible through global caching and high-speed protocols. even if someone is accessing your .com.au website from the opposite side of the world, they shouldn’t experience significant speed issues in the process. even a small amount of lag can change the way your website and company is perceived. for one, internet users are more astute than they used to be. why wait on a slow website when they can do a quick google search and find an alternative that performs better? if you sell products to an international audience, that dip in web performance has an even greater effect. people tend to view slow websites as less dependable and, unfortunately, less professional. first impressions matter on the internet. if your visitors and potential customers have problems even accessing your site, what does that have to say about the rest of your company? from a pure marketing standpoint, poorly connected websites also have a harder time of getting seen. google search ranks work on very complex algorithms that take much more than just content into account. you can have the most optimized web page in the world. however, it’s not going to appear higher up on search engine results if your site is hosted on a slow server that’s difficult to access. another issue that can put a damper on your success is low uptimes. uptime refers to when the server is actually running and functional. ideally, this should be 100 percent of the time. unfortunately, poorly optimized hosting servers experience issues. this makes your website inaccessible. depending on how much you rely on your website for business, you’re looking at potentially thousands of dollars of lost income. best overall web host for australia a2 hosting a2 hosting is a great option for australian businesses and bloggers. the company is based out of singapore and has four global data centers to ensure that connection speeds are reliable no matter where they are accessed from. now just $3.92 per month!!! – ( around aud$5.50 ) visit a2 hosting read our a2 hosting review four different types of hosting plans are offers. beyond that, there are also multiple tiers, offering different features in each. while this plan arrangement may seem confusing at first, it lets you customize your hosting plan to meet your needs. all of the plans are quite fast. all plans have unlimited ssd storage. if you need an extra boost of performance, a2 hosting also has turbo servers. they’re available for the upper-tier plans and are optimized to give you 20x more speed than normal servers. some other great benefits of a2 hosting include a great money-back guarantee, commitment to 99.9 percent uptime, and 24-hour customer support. pros: offers shared, vps, reseller, and dedicated hosting optional turbo servers data centers in singapore, amerstam, and the united states fast connection speeds unlimted ssd storage free ssl certificate unlimited websites on high-tier plans anytime money-back guarantee cons: doesn’t offer fee in aud support ticket system can be confusing siteground – excellent web hosting service for australia – (aud $4.95 per month) ranks overall #3 out of 20 web hosts worldwide go to siteground.com ….or read our bluehost review price from: aud$4.95 a month uptime: 99.97% free domain name: no free email: yes live chat support: yes free web builder: yes money back guarantee: 30 days bluehost came out on top in our all our review tests. we consider them to be one of the best web hosting providers around. they are certainly one of the most popular web host in the world with over 2.5 million sites hosted with them since 2003. reliable, fast load times, easy to set up and you get a free domain name and free ssl certificate. with multiple data centers around the world, your global visitors won’t have a problem accessing your website when its hosted on siteground. australian website owners, in particular, can benefit from their data center in singapore. the provider also has its own caching system, called the supercacher. as a result, you and your visitors can experience blazing speeds no matter what. siteground is a versatile hosting provider that offers flexible solutions to anyone. they have one-click installs for wordpress and work with many different e-commerce platforms. one great feature of the service is the built-in security system. it checks on every hosted site and is patched constantly to cover new threats. every plan also includes a free let’s encrypt ssl certificate for peace of mind. if your data is ever lost, you can recover all your hard work thanks to the daily backup system as well. pros: many different types of serving options supercacher system built-in security system fast connection speeds reliable ssd storage free ssl certificate daily backups available recommended by wordpress 30-day money-back guarantee cons: limitations on monthly visitors hostgator – best for wordpress – reliable and solid – ($2.75 per month) ranks #2 out of 20 web hosts go to hostgator.com ….or read our hostgator review price from: $2.95 a month uptime: 99.95% free domain name: yes free email: yes live chat support: yes free web builder: yes money back guarantee: 45 days hostgator are a well trusted and reliable web host. ideal for wordpress sites, hostgator offers exceptional value for money as well as getting fast load times, a free domain name and free ssl certificate. hostgator are considered to be one of the best web hosting providers on the market today. they also have a pretty good website builder which is free to use with your hosting plan. another name you might be familiar with is hostgator. this provider has been around since 2002 and continues to be a great option for businesses and individuals around the world. there are a few different types of plans you can get. hostgator also acts as a domain registrar and has its own website builder tool (gator). as a result, the provider is great for those who are just getting started. hostgator makes it easy to get your site up and running. they offer one-click installs for many content management systems and e-commerce platforms. everything is unmetered, so you can create a larger website without having to upgrade to a high-tier plan. pros: versatile hosting options unmetered storage and bandwidth unlimited domains and subdomains on higher plans free ssl certificate free seo tools for business plan one-click installs for joomla, wiki, drupal, and more 99 percent uptime guarantee cons: speeds aren’t as fast as competitors two data centers in the u.s. bluehost – best for wordpress – reliable and solid – ($2.75 per month) ranks #1 overall out of 20 web hosts go to bluehost.com ….or read our bluehost review price from: $2.95 a month uptime: 99.95% free domain name: yes free email: yes live chat support: yes money back guarantee: 30 days bluehost came out on top in our all our review tests. we consider them to be one of the best web hosting providers around. they are certainly one of the most popular web host in the world with over 2.5 million sites hosted with them since 2003. reliable, fast load times, easy to set up and you get a free domain name and free ssl certificate. bluehost is one of the oldest names in the industry. they have been providing reliable hosting services to website owners for over a decade. they offer a few different types of hosting plans. one of the most unique is the wordpress hosting option. perfect for small businesses and bloggers, this plan is affordable and optimized for the platform. the provider also supports other content management systems, such as joomla. bluehost is designed for simplicity. as a result, they utilize the cpanel system and offer a webmail platform for account holders. when it comes to speed, bluehost is pretty reliable. the data centers are located in the u.s., so aussies will need to use a cdn. luckily, the provider has one built right in. you can turn it on within cpanel. pros: shared, vps, and dedicated hosting plans built-in cdn dedicated wordpress hosting plans offers high-performance plans unmetered bandwidth across plans 24-hour support 30-day money-back guarantee cons: data centers are in the united states hostinger – best cheap web host for australia – great value for money (around $2 per month) ranks #6 out of 20 web hosts go to hostinger ….or read our hostinger review price from: usd 1.45 per month uptime: 99.89% free domain name: no free email: yes live chat support: yes free ssl certificate: no we’ve rated hostinger as the best cheap web host. they have over 30 million customers worldwide and is an absolute beast of the hosting universe. they offer an excellent service as well as very good customer care for a low price web host. hostinger is a large hosting company that offers many different options to website owners. you’ll find multiple plans for shared, cloud, and vps hosting. the higher-tier plans offer great features like unlimited storage, automatic daily backups, and more. even still, the lower plans are pretty impressive. you can get weekly backups, increased processing power, and some great email tools. this hosting company offers a great money-back guarantee as well as a 99.9 percent uptime guarantee. the servers are very fast and reliable. the company has data centers around the world. each one is optimized for better performance, so your audience can get speedy access whether they’re in melbourne or new york. one area in which hostinger really excels is technical support. there are a detailed knowledge base and a live chat function. the company team can communicate in over 20 languages collectively. pros: many different types of serving options free domain and website builder very fast connection speeds many plans with unlimited storage and bandwidth automatic backups with higher plans great email tools reliable support team optimized for wordpress 30-day moeny-back guarantee and uptime guarantee cons: doesn’t use cpanel greengeeks – decent web host for bloggers an small business – ($3.95 usd per month) go to greengeeks ….or read our greengeeks review price from: $3.95 per month uptime: 99.94% free domain name: no free email accounts: yes live chat support: yes greengeeks is a pretty unique hosting provider. they’re relatively new to the market but have already made quite the splash. they offer plenty of hosting options to suit your needs. all of them offer unlimited storage, bandwidth, and domains. while the company doesn’t currently have a data center near australia, they do have a global caching system. this means that website caches are stored in server nodes to speed up the connection process for international visitors. if you ever experience any issues with your account, greengeeks has a 24-hour support team that can be reached in many different ways. one of the most innovative aspects of greengeeks is their environmentally conscious approach. their hosting service is offset by 300 percent in renewable energy credits. pros: shared, vps, reseller, dedicated, and wordpress hosting options unlimited storage and bandwidth unlimited domains and mysql databases environmentally conscious speedy global cache system 24-hour support through live chat, phone, and ticket system 30-day money-back guarantee cons: currently no data centers near australia kinsta – decent managed wordpress host for australian users – ($30 usd per month) go to kinsta.com if you use wordpress, kinsta may be the hosting company for you. this provider only provides wordpress hosting plans. it’s optimized for the world’s most popular platform, allowing you to achieve fast connection speeds. the great thing about kinsta is that it uses google cloud data centers to host your site. there are servers in many different countries across six continents, including one in sydney and singapore. to improve speeds even further, kinsta has cloudflare cdn. this helps to deliver data quickly across great distances. overall, kinsta is a very reliable hosting provider. each plan comes with free backups each and every day. in addition to a standard money-back guarantee, kinsta also offers a guarantee to fix your website if its ever hacked. unfortunately kinsta do not support email hosting but i have some recommendations for this such as these email hosting providers pros: powered by google cloud dedicated wordpress hosting free daily backups cloudflare cdn fast connection speeds knowledgeable support team guarantee to fix hacking issues 30-day money-back guarantee cons: no email hosting conclusion as you can see, there are many great web hosting options for australians. while the country has a reputation for having unreliable servers and slower internet speeds, there are ways to get around those issues. these providers have top-notch equipment and protocols to ensure that your visitors can access your site without any issues. the right hosting service can establish your internet presence, helping your business reach its full potential. popular comparisons namecheap vs godaddy wordpress vs joomla vs drupal sendible vs sprout social shopify vs woocommerce maxcdn vs cloudflare g suite vs office 365 hosting comparisons bluehost vs dreamhost bluehost vs godaddy bluehost vs hostgator bluehost vs inmotion bluehost vs siteground cloudways vs bluehost cloudways vs digital ocean cloudways vs flywheel cloudways vs hostagor cloudways vs wpengine hostgator vs dreamhost hostgator vs godaddy namecheap vs godaddy wp engine vs synthesis bigcommerce vs shopify shopify vs wordpress (woocommerce) best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub