skip to content contact@green-providers.co.uk facebooktwitteryoutubeblogger the uk's leading directory of green, fair trade & ethical companies search for: home about us contact us add a listing climate change fair trade green living rainforests useful links search for: hometgpd2020-03-25t18:51:45+00:00 welcome to the green providers directory the green providers directory is the uk’s leading directory of eco-friendly, fair trade and ethical companies. founded in 2005 by dr gary robertshaw, the directory is free and easy to use. our green directory provides everything you need for ethical and sustainable living under one roof! suppliers are listed in easy-to-use sections, with a brief description of what they provide. links to a range of renewable energy suppliers, fair trade clothing, organic health and beauty products, energy saving devices, ethical gifts, fair trade bags are provided and much more. also, news and updates on environmental issues and related topics. our green directory is helping to build a more sustainable world “before i flew i was already aware of how small and vulnerable our planet is. but only when i saw it from space, in all its ineffable beauty and fragility, did i realize that human kind’s most urgent task is to cherish and preserve it for future generations.” – sigmund jähn https://www.green-providers.co.uk/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/video-20.4.15-lower.mp4 1 day ago green providers @greenproviders add your name. join peta in urging the world health organization to call for an end to deadly live-animal markets a… t.co/tp0hlvfdvh reply retweet 0 like 0 become listed in our directory tips for a greener lifestyle helping to protect the rainforests and endangered species tropical rainforests took between 60 and 100 million years to evolve. they are probably the oldest and most complex land-based ecosystem on earth, containing over 30 million species of plants and animals. that’s half of the earth’s wildlife and at least two-thirds of its plant species! rainforests play a central in slowing down climate change. links between meat eating and climate change have also been widely known for many years. this is due to deforestation in the amazon rainforest to make room for cattle grazing. clearing these forests is estimated to produce a staggering 17% of global greenhouse gas emissions, more than the entire transport sector! [find out more…] promoting fair trade products for a fairer world fair trade is a social movement that reduces poverty and exploitation. it guarantees producers a price for their goods. as a result the price never falls below the cost of production. all the companies listed in our green directory follow fair trade principles. more than 7 million people in africa, asia and latin america benefit from fair trade. farmers, farm workers, and their families. [fair trade principles…] protecting the environment meat production requires massive amounts of land, energy, and water. globally, animal agriculture is responsible for more greenhouse gases than all the world’s transportation systems combined! furthermore, add to that deforestation and the fact that it takes 48 times as much water to produce beef compared to vegetables. for that reason its not hard to see how a rapidly growing human population consuming larger amounts of meat is so detrimental to the environment. clearing virgin forests for palm oil plantations is also decimating species such as orangutans and tigers, consequently driving them towards extinction. [read more…] organic beauty products without the nasties beyond organic skincare products are made in cornwall, uk and exported worldwide. they have won over 29 awards (and still counting) for their pure and effective products – try these yourselves to find out why! visit www.beyondorganicskincare.com accountants architects articles baby & children bags banking beds body care books bottles buildings & homes business services car sharing carbon offsetting cleaning clothing dating eco products energy saving films flowers food & drink funerals furniture gardening gifts health & beauty holidays & travel homeware insurance investments jewellery linens phone recycling population matters printers radio rainforests recycling renewable energy soaps stationery t-shirts vegetarianism water saving wines contact information the green providers directory, scio learning & research (slr) ltd, innovation centre, innovation way, york, yo10 5dg email: contact@green-providers.co.uk gdpr, privacy & cookie policy by continuing to use this website you are giving consent to cookies being used. click here to read our gdpr, privacy and cookie policy. copyright notice this website is protected by copyright law. no part may be copied, reproduced or distributed without express permission. feedback click here to read feedback on our site from other green companies working hard to protect our planet and its inhabitants. the green providers directory | all rights reserved | copyright 2020 | the green providers directory is a trading style of scio learning & research (slr) ltd, which is registered in england & wales. registered number: 08706235. registered office: scio learning & research (slr) ltd, innovation centre, innovation way, york, yo10 5dg. vat registration number: 234 3429 23 this site uses cookies: find out more.okay, thank you