 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the best content marketing tools 2020 written by anya skrba updated: january 16, 2020 content is probably one of the most important assets in the digital world. so what is content? content is everything, from videos, images, blog posts, web pages, quizzes and so on. a wise man once said “content is king”, and if you don’t know who said this, it was bill gates. yes, the man behind microsoft. all organizations that want to make something happen online need content because it is the centerpiece of all assets and marketing efforts online. despite the fact of being a fairly old digital marketing technique it still remains very effective with over 90% percent of companies having some form of a content marketing campaign. in 2019, content is still very important piece of advertising, which is why you need to arm yourself with adequate tools that can help you manage your campaign properly. how to promote your blog quality content is essential for blogging efforts however, no matter how good your blog is all of your efforts will not give you any results unless you know how to promote it properly. this guide will help you learn the basics of how to attract readers to your blog and make people give it a chance. read the guide what is content marketing? content marketing is a wide marketing technique which involves creating and distributing various digital materials including status updates, articles, blogs and videos. this marketing technique is not designed to directly promote products, services or brands. instead, its goal is to actively work on engaging people, offer them valuable information and help them solve problems while at the same time, gaining their trust and loyalty, making them more open to buying something or engaging a business in some way. content marketing is also essential for fueling seo efforts of your new website as each piece of content is a new opportunity to improve backlinking, indexing, optimization and other important seo elements. at the same time, content marketing is also important for social media marketing as it allows brands to share new material and drive traffic to their websites or stores. this has become a highly sophisticated and competitive marketing niche which requires a lot of know-how and advanced tools. list of the most popular content marketing tools creating and managing large volumes of content has become an imperative for a content strategy to be successful. this can be a very complex, expensive and time-consuming process and this is why it is essential to have a professional content marketing tool. because of the high demand, a lot of tools have emerged on the market and that’s why we’ve created this list of most popular tools for you to choose from. ninjaoutreach ninja outreach is influencer marketing tool which helps us to find the bloggers and influencers related to our keyword phrases and creates a list to send emails in pre-defined templates automatically to them with a personal touch. visit ninjaoutreach social buzz club social buzz club is a robust site and innovative social marketing tool for savvy networkers which provides members sharing tools and buttons all in one place. visit social buzz club tribber triberr is a great way to grow your blog’s readership. it’s a platform to manage groups called tribes. a tribe is a group of people, typically bloggers, who write about the same topics. visit tribber splash splash is all-in-one event marketing platform, mostly used by companies that view events as an important part of marketing strategy. visit splash inbound.org inbound.org is a community-based website that aims to educate and enable marketers through curated content, personal profiles, and much more. visit inbound.org wishpond wishpond is a marketing platform for generating, managing and nurturing leads, created to make it easier for marketers to grow their business. visit wishpond hubspot hubspot is inbound marketing and sales software that helps companies attract visitors, convert leads, and close customers. visit hubspot pushwoosh pushwoosh provides the most diverse cross-platform push notifications system that lets marketers, mobile developers, and app owners reach and engage their audience with unprecedented ease. visit pushwoosh dashthis dashthis is an automated marketing reporting tool that allows digital agencies and in-house marketers alike to bring together all their marketing data from their different platforms into one cohesive dashboard. visit dashthis conclusion take some time to learn more about the tool, its functions, and uses, and we guarantee that you will be able to reap amazing benefits from it. pick one or multiple tools from this list and start improving your content marketing efforts now! one comment on “the best content marketing tools 2020” elena march 5, 2019 at 8:44 am great list about content marketing tools. good read! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.