about press podcast archive hire michael get coaching free training contact select page i can help you create and scale a business you can run in your underwear. get coaching podcasts free stuff more info about conferencetopia > unabashedly, unapologetically, proudly unemployable more listening options… recent podcasts 798: a massive youtube hack to increase views, and your questions by michael o'neal | dec 9, 2019 on today's show i describe a hack i implemented to increase the views on my youtube channel i over 620%. then i cruise through all of your questions, and i got to tell you, it was great to be back! relevant links: http://www.rennch.com/youtube featured ads on this... read more 797: how to become a stock market, forex, or options trader with anmol singh by michael o'neal | nov 25, 2019 stock market guru anmol singh from livetrader.com is on the show today. he talks about how he got his start trading, what kind of person is the perfect profile to become a traitor, how much money you need to do it, what you were expected returns could be, and gives us... read more 796: steve weatherford will make you want to run through a brick wall by michael o'neal | nov 3, 2019 former new york giants kicker steve weatherford was in studio today. after retiring from the nfl, steve has become a motivational and mindset coach that will make you re-frame and re-think most of the decisions you make during the course of the day. his mindset is of... read more 795: how to create your own mobile app, with sean casto of preapps.com by michael o'neal | oct 28, 2019 have you ever thought "man, i wish there was an app for that!". today's guest, sean casto of http://preapps.com, has helped hundreds of people create apps. today we chat about how he got into the app game, and the steps necessary to create your own app! sean casto is... read more 794: crash course for success with jason aldean drummer, rich redmond by michael o'neal | oct 7, 2019 this morning, i jammed with jason aldean drummer rich redmond at an undisclosed studio in la. rich has been playing with jason for over 20 years. but… he's not just a drummer. he's an author, actor, entrepreneur, and motivational speaker. we had a great chat about how... read more 793: liz germain on starting over from scratch, mega youtube tips, and your own peanut butter and jelly by michael o'neal | sep 16, 2019 today we have liz germain in studio. liz is an absolute youtube wizard, in addition to being a former fitness professional, and mega amateur rapper. we chat about her transition of moving from a partnership business to a solo endeavor, growing up in michigan, and she... read more « older entries next entries » hi. i’m michael. after 15 years making a living as a designer and branding guy, i started a social media consulting agency in 2009, and a podcast consulting agency in 2012. in addition to being a paid speaker, emcee, and doing live workshops, i do a lot of coaching with solopreneurs, network marketers, and podcasters. that coaching can either be in my mastermind group, sololab™, private monthly coaching, or, if you want to launch a really successful podcast, as i’ve done now more than half a dozen times, to the tune of over 15 million downloads, and millions of dollars, my hi-end podcast launch packages. you can even buy a 40 minute one-on-one session if you just need an answer to a specific problem. ultimately, i view being a solopreneur as a holistic approach of brand, messaging, platform, and execution. i can help you achieve time freedom, financial freedom, and location freedom. copyright® 2019 proudly unemployable, llc