free course sign up a free 7-step course to starting your blog if you've ever thought about starting a blog, wondered if blogging is right for you, or are ready to jump right in and start a blog for yourself or your business this course is for you. in this free ultimate guide to start a blog course, problogger founder darren rowse will guide you through 7 steps to start your own blog. 1. is a blog right for you? what is your blogging purpose? 2. what will you blog about? define your blogging niche and make sure it's viable 3. what will you call your blog? 4 factors to consider when choosing a domain name 4. start your blog - register your domain name, set-up hosting and install wordpress 5. get your blog looking good - blog design and theme choices 6. add content and functionality to your blog with wordpress 7. blog launch checklist and bonus learning modules on email and social media your teacher: darren rowse problogger darren is a veteran of 15 years blogging, having created numerous blogs and demonstrating you can make a good living as a blogger. what our students say " the very first sentence of step 1, "i don’t believe that every person should have a blog", made me believe that the team is genuine and honest. so i gave it a try. among all the useful content darren and his team have provided for free, i appreciated the questionnaire "is a blog right for you?" the most as it made me think in depth and set me in the right direction. after answering to every single question, i had more confidence and was able to enjoy the other steps. ai igamoto - ask the japanese girl " i have been blogging off and on since the early 2000s. i have started several blogs and quit several blogs. so, the reason i took this course was to see if it could ignite in me a renewed passion for blogging and also help me create a new, more sustainable blog. and the course did just that. i am excited about blogging again and am looking forward to putting what i have learned in the course to good use. david stensrud - eightfold blog " i've been a hobby blogger since 2004. i've used blogger and wordpress.com, but i decided it was time to step things up, take the plunge and go self-hosted. the course helped me every step of the way, with great support from darren and laney and all the other new bloggers. in the facebook group, there's a real sense of community and excitement. this course gave me the kick i needed to continue blogging, taking it to the next level. alison spence montillet - museum travelers sounds great - i'm ready to get started! sign up