skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more book publishing the power of publishing a book writing and publishing your own book is (still) one of the best ways to build your authority and grow your brand. the best way to tell your story share your message & grow your audience if you’ve been in the online business space for even a short amount of time, you’ve probably heard someone say that the best way to spread an idea or message is with a book. and it’s true. a book lets you put the most essential stuff all in one place. it's a visible, tangible way to tell your story, one that will continue to live on the shelf even long after it’s been read. it’s also an incredible way to establish yourself as an authority in your field or niche. a book demonstrates your dedication and strength in refining your message, and in seeing a huge project through to the end. and yes, writing and publishing a book can also create new revenue streams for you, not just from the book itself, but by leading customers to the products and services you offer. here at spi we’ve supported pat in self-publishing not one, not two, but three books: let go, will it fly?, and superfans. through the success of these books, we know how valuable it is for you and your brand to have a published book with your name on it as the author. the benefits of publishing your own book can be huge. but the task of actually writing and getting your book out into the world? that can seem daunting, especially for first-time authors. that’s where we come in. on this page, you'll find: a detailed guide to get you started with your own book courses designed to help you go deeper our best free articles and tutorials on book writing and publishing our favorite tool for authors podcast interviews with successful authors free guides our essential guide to book publishing there's no need to feel overwhelmed by the idea of writing and publishing your first book. this guide will show you everything you need to know, from writing and editing to publishing options and marketing. book publishing spi's epic guide to writing & publishing your book welcome to spi’s epic guide to writing and publishing a book! here at spi we have supported pat in self-publishing… 12 chapters start here articles insightful articles about writing, editing, publishing, and marketing a book these articles, tutorials, and case studies will give you an idea of what's involved with getting your own book published. how to market a book (hint: it starts before you write!) want to learn how to market a book? here's everything you need to know, from book marketing on amazon to book launch teams and social media strategy. my february 2016 monthly income report my new book, will it fly?, went on sale on february 1. in my february 2016 monthly income report, i’m stoked to share how it performed. behind the scenes of the will it fly? social media strategy two weeks after the launch of will it fly?, this post shares all the details behind the social media strategy promotion for the book. how to be even more everywhere let's explore other platforms to reach a bigger audience, beyond your blog, and even a podcast and video channel. what else is there? book publishing cheat sheet step-by-step publishing process guidance high-level overview of the 5 stages of publishing covering steps for ebook and print download the free guide get the cheat sheet we'll send the book publishing cheat sheet straight to your email. get your free downloadpowered by convertkit get a high-level overview of the five stages of publishing, from pre-writing to marketing, whether you're writing an ebook or a print book, and whether you're self-publishing or going the traditional route. recommended tool authors who lead summit get access to a host of world-class best selling authors and experts who share powerful tips, tricks, and strategies to help you write a bestselling book that people will love. join the summit podcasts book publishing podcast episodes listen in to hear the best of spi's success stories, case studies, and advice for writing and publishing your book. smart passive income podcast with pat flynn weekly interviews, strategy, and advice for building your online business the smart way. subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast60+ million downloads march 23, 2016 spi 206: how spi reader robert duff is building passive income with books on amazon january 27, 2016 spi 198: building a book launch “street team” (plus pre-order) january 20, 2016 spi 197: behind the scenes of writing will it fly? september 2, 2014 spi 124: your author empire—pick a niche and publish for profit with steve scott september 5, 2013 spi 079: time travel and book marketing with jeff goins—strategies to help you sell more books and spread your word more episodes askpat 2.0 a weekly coaching call on online business, blogging, marketing, and lifestyle design. apply for an askpat coaching call! you’ll be asked a series of questions about your business and will be given the opportunity to make a 30-second audio pitch for your question. see the full submission guidelines. and read the askpat privacy policy and terms of use. apply for a coaching call subscribe now apple spotify google stitcher tunein overcast top itunes business podcast12.5 million downloads august 25, 2017 ap 0939: how do i engage with people who buy my book on amazon? may 26, 2016 ap 0613: how did you write your book? april 19, 2017 ap 0847: how do i boost ebook sales? october 17, 2016 ap 0715: how can i leverage my book to support and monetize my brand? march 22, 2017 ap 0827: should i create a website to promote my book? more episodes want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less