news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out bidet’s the day to make the upgrade. by joe rice-jones march 19, 2020 image: knowtechie thanks to the panic buying of toilet paper due to the coronavirus pandemic, you can’t get a sheet of charmin anywhere. i mean anywhere. target is out unless you want to fight other shoppers in the paper goods aisle, warehouse clubs are all out, and even the ever-dependable amazon is out, with no estimates as to when stock will be back. so, that said, how are we going to keep our butts clean while this virus situation keeps going? enter the bidet, a mainstay of toilets around the world, but an oft-maligned thing stateside. still, the situation warrants extreme measures, right? be warned though, once you’ve gotten used to the super clean feeling, you won’t want to go back to dry old toilet paper again. spray or pay? there are really two types of bidets here. one has a handheld sprayer, pretty similar to the sprayer hose you might have if you have an upscale kitchen sink. these are mostly using your cold water pipes, so if you live in a cold area you might want to avoid these. the other type goes on your toilet and sprays hands-free while you’re still sitting down. the basic ones just have a sprayer, while more expensive ones can do everything from heat the water to fan dry your posterior once the washing is done. we’ve tried to keep our recommendations to ones that won’t take more than two weeks to arrive, hopefully well before your existing tp stash runs dry. achiotely handheld bidet toilet sprayer ($70) image: knowtechie okay, so all you need to really know about this bidet sprayer attachment from achiotely is that it’s super easy to install, and comes with all the parts you need. it’s multipurpose too, so you can use it to wash your pets, clean your tub, or even rinse things like your kitchen trash bin. it’s made of stylish stainless steel and comes with a strong t-valve so you don’t end up with a drenched bathroom if someone accidentally hits the trigger while it’s hung up. oh, and you can hang it on the wall or on the cistern. nice. see at amazon aqua nexis premium bidet sprayer for toilet ($84) image: knowtechie this aqua nexis hand-held sprayer is made from stainless steel and brass, so you don’t have to worry about any coating flaking off over time. it’s got a 360 degree rotatable sprayer attachment so there’s no chance of snarling the hose, and supposedly only takes five minutes to install. you’ll be rinsing off like a king on your throne in no time. see at amazon densan hand held bidet sprayer kit ($69) image: knowtechie you’ll get the hardwearing 304 stainless steel variant here, a stainless steel hose, and a brass valve that’ll keep working for years to come. if disposable diapers become hard to get hold of, you can use the densan hand bidet to hose down those important cloth diapers before throwing them into the washing machine. there’s a 100 percent satisfaction guarantee as well, so happy spraying! see at amazon watight bidet sprayer ($74) image: knowtechie the last hand-sprayer on the list also comes with 304 stainless steel, all the fittings you need to mount it, and it features an extended handle for erm… extra reach. watight says you can also use it to wash fruit, but please don’t do that if you’re mounting it next to your toilet. see at amazon trustmi toilet concealed hot and cold bidet spray set ($73) image: knowtechie if the thought of cold water hitting your nether regions makes you shiver, maybe you want to make this bidet sprayer from trustmi a permanent fixture in your bathroom. it’s easily retrofitted to existing bathrooms by mounting it on the vanity cabinet under your sink, so all you need to do then is tap into the hot and cold supply lines. no plumber needed, although you could hire one if you want to support local businesses while this pandemic is going on. see at amazon toto c100 washlet ($358) image: knowtechie if you really want to wash your keister in luxury, look no further than the c100 washlet. it’s got heated water, a heated seat, heated air drying, a self-cleaning spray wand and more. you’ll need a 120v plug socket to use it, but most bathrooms have one near the toilet or sink. there’s even an air deodorizer to make things outside the bowl clean for the next occupant. see at amazon biobidet bliss bb2000 ($638) image: knowtechie don’t be put off by the “used – like new” on the biobidet listing, these are open-box or damaged packaging with no use. there’s a motorized, fully stainless steel nozzle to hose you off, a nightlight so you’re not blinded by the vanity lights, a wireless remote, and all the heated comfort you could want. it’s even got a slow closing seat, so don’t worry about just letting it drop. see at amazon tibbers home bidet ($80) image: knowtechie this is a hands-free version of the sprayer attachments, in that all you do is put the insert onto your toilet seat, and connect the hose to the water supply. yes, that means your water spray is coming in cold, but maybe that’s just what you need to get going in the morning. most importantly – it’s got a self-cleaning routine for the sprayer. see at amazon hygencare ex400 non-electric bidet toilet seat attachment ($90) image: knowtechie like the last attachment, this unit from hygencare also a non-electric, hands-free sprayer attachment. the difference here is that if you want, you can hook it up to the hot tap, so you can have warm sprays of water clean your tuckus, instead of icy jets. it’s also got dual nozzles, great for washing the whole area, while a ceramic valve stops backflow of water into the rest of the system. see at amazon bemis b980nl 000 renew plus cleansing spa round bidet toilet seat ($599) image: knowtechie like all the other premium bidet seats, the bemis comes with continuous heated water, air drying, and a whisper close seat. it’s also got aerated washes, a touch control remote with user presets, and pulsating wash functions. the remote hints at spray that could be anything from a thin jet to a shower, so you should be able to find a setting that suits your tender backside. see at amazon better hurry though, even while i was writing this, other bidets on amazon were going out of stock. editors’ recommendations: the best streaming devices to keep you entertained while you’re stuck at home the best tech to hoard during a pandemic uber eats will waive delivery fees for local restaurants due to the coronavirus at&t is waiving data cap fees for home internet customers in response to the coronavirus just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. related topicsamazonbidetbuying guidecoronavirus joe rice-jones maker, meme-r and unabashed geek. hardware guy here at knowtechie, if it runs on electricity (or even if it doesn't) i probably have one around here somewhere. my hobbies include photography, animation and hoarding reddit gold. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in buying guide the best meditation apps to cut through the noise one, two, three...ohhmmmm the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times if you are looking for some mobile games to help you relax, start here. the best audiobooks to listen to while you isolate ok! everybody sit in a circle, it's storytime... the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined there's a lot to stress about right now, having some calming games at hand... the best tech to hoard during a pandemic just add hot pockets and tuna. the best streaming devices to keep you entertained while you’re stuck at home catch up all the shows you've missed out on with any of these streaming... the best twitch streaming gear you can get for under $100 streaming video games doesn't have to be expensive. the best sleep tech money can buy right now technology does more than keep you awake. the best tech to hoard during a pandemic the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie