i am a food blog subscribe search i am a food blog search i am a food blog front page all recipes make me something good #thatnoodlelife diy chinese take out japanese quick & easy mains breakfast/brunch meat-free buying guides cooking basics city guides about new here? contact work with us from the archives: how to make american flag jello review travel the search for the best chocolate chip cookie in the world will travel for chocolate chip cookies posted february 23, 2020 by stephanie i love chocolate chip cookies. mike and i love traveling. one day, we were chatting about how mike always gets the same dish every time we get udon. he always orders niku udon so he has a very deep knowledge of how it’s supposed to taste and thus knows when and where it tastes good. inspired by that, i told him that i wanted my own niku udon. but what?! what was something that i loved that they almost always universally make everywhere in the world? i thought about it long and hard but ultimately couldn’t come up with anything. i mean, i love beef chow fun, but do i really want to eat beef chow fun everywhere – even potentially in egypt? it was mike who came up with chocolate chip cookies. and it was perfect! i deeply, deeply love chocolate chip cookies. and we see them almost everywhere, from humble mom and pop bakeries in the middle of america, to high end patisseries in paris. and so, my search begins. i’m going to try to eat a chocolate chip cookie from every city we visit. i’m on a search for the best chocolate chip cookie in the world. let me know where your favorites are and i will definitely search them out. is it crazy to travel for chocolate chip cookies? yes. am i crazy? yes, for cookies! a note on my perfect chocolate chip cookie: my perfect chocolate chip cookie is thick, with crisp caramelized edges, soft and chewy insides, a slightly gooey center, and pools of melty chocolate. the cookie part needs to have that caramelized hint of toffee and i like larger pools of semi sweet dark chocolate rather than small milk chocolate chips. warm is always better but a good cookie is a good cookie. a great cookie even tastes good they next day. each cookie will be rated on a 25 point scale, 5 points each for edges, middles, chocolate, cookie, and taste. please let me know your favorite chocolate chip cookies. with luck, i hope to try them all! this page will be continuously updated with chocolate chip cookie reviews, so be sure to check back. i’ll also be posting individual, in-depth reviews. updated whenever i eat a new cookie! standard baking co’s famous chocolate chip cookie standard bakery co, portland, maine 13/25 i had high hopes for this “fresh from the oven!” cookie, but ultimately, it was a dnf for me. it was slightly warm from the oven, which made the chocolate chunks melty, but really, i think i expecting too much. read the full standard baking co. chocolate chip cookie review here. flour bakery’s famous chocolate chip cookie flour bakery, boston, massachusetts 18/25 this cookie didn’t have an immediate wow factor while i was looking at it in the case, but upon my first bite, i was sold. softer golden edges with a fudgy chewy middle and large chunks of both semi-sweet and milk chocolate. read the full flour bakery chocolate chip cookie review here. maman’s famous chocolate chip cookie maman, new york city, new york 13/25 this cookie was meh. i had read so many good things about it that i guess i built it up in my mind. it’s a very nutty chocolate chip cookie, which can be a good thing, but didn’t really work for me. it did come out of a warming case though. it was a dnf for me. read the full maman chocolate chip cookie review here. jacques torres’s famous chocolate chip cookie jacques torres, new york city, new york 17/25 i wasn’t particularly excited to try the “famous” jacques torres ccc – it’s been around for a while and i admit, i buy into hype (ie chip and levain). the cookies were flat and giant and they looked kind of old, but when i bit into one, i fell in love. it was flat and chewy and crispy and i really really ended up loving it. no joke, it was my favorite nyc ccc and i didn’t expect that at all. read the full jacques torres chocolate chip cookie review here. chip nyc’s famous chocolate chip cookie chip, new york city, new york 12/25 i wanted to love this cookie, i did, but it didn’t even pass my chocolate chip cookie matrix! if you love cookies that taste like scones, maybe this cookie is for you. it was a definite dnf for me and it made me so sad. read the full chip nyc chocolate chip cookie review here. levain’s famous chocolate chip cookie levain, new york city, new york 13.5/25 this was another cookie that i was pretty hyped up to try because i naively believe in instagram hype. it was definitely better than chip but it was still not the kind of chocolate chip cookie i’m looking for. a bit too dough-y and underbaked for me. read the full levain chocolate chip cookie review here. slab’s famous chocolate chip cookie slab sandwiches and pie, seattle, washington 19.5/25 this was an almost perfect chocolate chip cookie experience. the cookie was super fresh and had just the most amazing contrasting textures. sweet with a good hit of salt. a very very good cookie, both slightly warm from the oven and even later, cold, after being left in the car. read the full slab sandwiches and pie chocolate chip cookie review here. 26 comments carrie says: february 23, 2020 at 2:50 am i loved the ccc from standard bakery in maine! reply lizzie adams says: february 23, 2020 at 1:30 pm ooh. what a great challenge. i’d suggest you try ben’s cookies- you can buy them in london and oxford uk and they’re seriously good, especially soon out of the oven. reply stephanie says: february 23, 2020 at 2:53 pm ooh yay i will definitely try them out! reply charlene says: february 24, 2020 at 5:43 am here are two more for your list – when you travel ;) toasted rye, dark chocolate and sea salt cookie from bread41 in dublin, ireland lehamin in tel aviv, israel reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:33 pm oh my gosh i would be over the moon to try those two!! if we ever make it to either i will definitely try the cccs!! reply nicole says: february 24, 2020 at 10:39 am just had an incredible chocolate chip cookie at mainstay provisions in seattle. crispy edges, chewy center, and massive pools of dark chocolate. reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:32 pm ooh that sounds like perfection!! reply diana says: february 24, 2020 at 10:49 am i’m on the best chocolate chip cookie hunt in nyc, and would suggest you try out culture espresso ccc! my favorite so far. reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:32 pm oooh that one was on my list but we didn’t make it!! next time for sure! reply angela roth says: february 24, 2020 at 2:05 pm i consider myself a chocolate chip cookie monster & i love, love, love cow chip cookies from seattle. you can follow your nose to the shop ….ah, breathe in the vanilla, sugar, butter, sigh…. http://www.cowchipcookies.com/bestcookies/ reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:32 pm haven’t tried them but will give them a go soon!! reply mel says: february 24, 2020 at 2:14 pm the giant cookies from choc cookies are definitely worth a try! sf bay area- cupertino, ca (choccookies.com) reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:31 pm i will try them next time we’re in the bay area!! thanks for the idea!! reply taylor says: february 24, 2020 at 2:24 pm union kitchen in washington, d.c.! reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:31 pm thanks for the tip! i wish i could travel everywhere for all the cccs!! reply haley says: february 24, 2020 at 6:05 pm tandem bakery in portland, maine! reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:30 pm ooh i tried that one a couple of years ago but i need to refresh my memory and take pics of it!! thanks for reminding me! reply em says: february 25, 2020 at 9:15 pm how about the ccc from east van roasters in vancouver? can it have other things in it? the popcorn cookie at timbretrain is also fantastic- chocolate chips, toffee and popcorn. reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:28 pm only true cccs please!! i will do ones with nuts if they don’t have without but i want to keep it pure! i’ll give the east van roasters one a try! thanks for the tip! reply stephanie says: february 26, 2020 at 6:40 am i think you are probably a purist so no nuts in the cookie but le gourmand in toronto makes a good chocolate chunk walnut cookie. i look forward to reading about all your reviews and finds. reply melissa says: february 26, 2020 at 8:00 pm good luck on this delectable adventure! choc cookies in the sf bay area (cupertino) 👌 giant, warm, crisp on the outside and chewy in the middle. they hold up for a few days too. worth a try for sure. reply jamie says: february 28, 2020 at 5:41 am thanks for starting this list! i’ve been searching for the perfect ccc for awhile. however, what’s “perfect?” i was originally looking for what you were looking for (minus gooey chocolate. i like the bite of a hard chocolate). however, having levain (mail order) and a place called specialtys here in san jose, i’m open to everything. good news, is that i’m going to seattle next weekend, so can’t wait to try slab! reply stephanie says: february 29, 2020 at 11:26 pm let me know what you think of slab!! next time we’re in san jose, i’ll check out specialty’s! reply jayun says: march 2, 2020 at 10:14 am proof bakery in la and dandelion in sf has pretty good chocolate chip cookies :) reply andrea says: march 4, 2020 at 12:06 pm this is an excellent endeavor!! my favorite is dandelion chocolate’s chocolate chip cookie (in san francisco on valencia st.) reply alex says: march 18, 2020 at 9:10 pm you must try the cookie from mah ze dahr bakery in nyc! amazing if you like a salty cookie. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website chocolate chip cookiescookiesmust eattraveltravel guide rilakkuma bear hugging almond shortbreadread chocolate chip cookie review: standard bakery co, portland, maineread chocolate chip cookie review: flour bakery, boston, massachusettsread recipe roundups small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.see the list sunday brunch extra fluffy, super soft and custard-y japanese style tamagoyaki french toast this japanese tamagoyaki-inspired french toast is soft and custardy on the inside and crisp on the outside. the perfect combination of sweet and savory!best meal of the week basics & how to 10 tips and tricks to making the best stir fry how to make the best stir fry of your life plus a basic, use it everywhere simple stir fry sauce recipe!let's do it bread small batch baking in times of stress: 11 small batch baking ideas small batch baking is not only the best form of self care, it’s also the best way to ration your precious baking supplies.i knead this subscribe to our newsletter and never miss another post! follow @iamafoodblog about | faq | new here? | contact copyright © 2019 iamafoodblog, all rights reserved