wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » news » the history of wordpress from 2003 – 2019 (with screenshots) the history of wordpress from 2003 – 2019 (with screenshots) last updated on may 8th, 2019 by editorial staff 336 shares share tweet share pin do you want to know about the history of wordpress? if you are starting a wordpress blog or website today, then you see a popular website builder which powered more than 32% of all websites on the internet. in this article, we want to take a look back at the history of wordpress to show you how it evolved over time. the story of wordpress tells us how open source communities work to make something so useful without compromising software freedom. wordpress project is driven by a community of dedicated developers, users, and supporters (related: why is wordpress free?). wordpress started out because the development of an existing blogging software b2/cafelog was discontinued by their main developers. in 2003, two users of b2/cafelog, matt mullenweg and mike little, decided to build a new platform on top of b2/cafelog. they probably didn’t know that they are about to start a journey that would eventually benefit millions of users around the globe, create thousands of jobs, and a whole industry of developers, designers, writers, bloggers, and web publishers would make their living off it. on may 27, 2003, matt announced the availability of the first version of wordpress. it was well received by the community. it was based on b2 cafelog with significant improvements. the first version of wordpress included a new admin interface, new templates, and generated xhtml 1.1 compliant templates. the post editor looked like this: in may 2004, version 1.2 of wordpress came with plugin architecture. this enabled users and developers to extend the functionality of wordpress by writing their own plugins and sharing them with rest of the community. as wordpress was opening itself to the community, something totally opposite was happening in the blogging industry at that time. the market leader in blogging tools industry at that time was moveable type. they announced new licensing terms which were not liked by many of their users. this forced many of their users to look for a new blogging platform. wordpress 1.2, presented itself as an ambitious project offering users a mature, stable, easy and flexible platform with features that rivaled their proprietary competitors. the adaption rate of wordpress skyrocketed with this release. with the increase in the number of users, wordpress started getting better with the help and interest of the community. in february 2005, wordpress 1.5 came with pages, comment moderation tools, new default theme kubrick, and a completely new theme system. matt announced themes with these words: in 1.5 we have created an incredibly flexible theme system that adapts to you rather than expecting you adapt to it. you can have your entire weblog run through a single file, just like before, or you can literally have a different template for every single different category. it’s as much or as little as you want. we’ve also broken common site elements like headers, footers, and sidebars into their own files so you can make a change in one place and see it everywhere immediately. “matt mullenweg – announcing wordpress 1.5” in december 2005, wordpress 2.0 was released with a new admin dashboard. this new admin area was a complete overhaul of the administration screens in wordpress. it used javascript and dhtml to make a better user interface where users did not need to load a page to perform some simple tasks. users were now able to add categories and tags to posts without leaving the post editor or delete comments without reloading the comments screen. the shiny new admin ui was not the only significant improvement in this release. it was the first release that came with akismet anti-spam plugin pre-installed. it also came with a wordpress database backup plugin, wp-db-backup, which was then dropped in 2007. another first for this release was the introduction of a functions.php file in the theme system. on march 1, 2006, automattic, the company founded by wordpress co-founder matt mullenweg, filed the trademark registration for wordpress and wordpress logo. in 2008, a web design company called happy cog joined the wordpress project to help design a new wordpress admin interface. a usability study was conducted to design the admin ui. throughout the year new features such as shortcodes, one-click updates, and built-in plugin installation were added to wordpress with different releases. in june of 2010, automattic, the company founded by wordpress co-founder matt mullenweg, transferred the ownership of wordpress trademark and logo to the wordpress foundation. this was a significant moment in wordpress history, because it ensured that wordpress will continue to grow, and is not dependent on a company or a group of developers to continue the project. on june 17, 2010, wordpress 3.0 was released. it was a major step towards wordpress as cms. this release introduced several features such as custom post types, better custom taxonomies, custom backgrounds, header, menus, contextual help on admin screens, etc. wordpress mu project was merged into wordpress core to create multisite networks. it also came with twenty ten, which started the tradition of a new default theme for each year. in 2011, post formats and admin bar made their way into wordpress. around that time, some really cool wordpress plugins were building powerful ecommerce platforms on top of wordpress. this enabled wordpress users to create online stores and build powerful ecommerce websites using wordpress. in 2012, theme customizer, theme previews, and new media manager were introduced. these features tremendously helped new users in creating image galleries and previewing themes before they change to a new theme. in 2013, wordpress 3.7 came with the new automatic updates feature that allowed wordpress to automatically update your site’s software for minor releases. the automatic updates feature is very similar to what google chrome browser does. several users didn’t like the feature, so we wrote a tutorial on how to disable automatibecometes. by this time wordpress had already became the most popular cms in the world. in december 2013, wordpress 3.8 was released which introduced mp6, the new wordpress admin interface. this new interface was responsive and was aimed to provide a better user experience to users, on any device or screen size. on april 16, 2014, wordpress 3.9 was released. it focused on improving the wordpress visual post editor. images can now be dragged and dropped directly into the post editor. users are now able to edit images right inside the editor and see their gallery previews inside the editor. wordpress 3.9 also introduced live widget previews, audio playlists, and several other enhancements. more refinements were made to wordpress core throughout the year with subsequent wordpress 4.0 and wordpress 4.1 releases. 2014 was also the first year when non-english downloads for wordpress surpassed english downloads. in 2015, wordpress 4.2, 4.3, and 4.4 were released. these releases focused on improved localization, emoji support, theme customizer, and laying down infrastructure for the wordpress rest api. in the same year, woocommerce, the most popular wordpress ecommerce plugin was acquired by automattic (the company founded by wordpress co-founder matt mullenweg). in 2016, wordpress 4.5, 4.6, and 4.7 were released. each release introduced some new features and improvements. most notable changes during the year were streamlined updates for plugins and themes, content recovery by using browser storage, and custom css feature for theme customizer. by the end of the year, wordpress.org announced actively supporting https in 2017, wordpress 4.8 and 4.9 were released. these releases brought several new default widgets to add audio, video, images, gallery, rich text, and html. these releases also laid the groundwork for the new wordpress block editor. in 2018, wordpress 5.0 was released with a brand new editing experience. the new wordpress block editor project was codenamed gutenberg. see our complete gutenberg tutorial – wordpress block editor. what’s next for wordpress? wordpress is continuously evolving to address the needs of the millions of web publishers around the world. the direction of wordpress directly depends on the needs of users. we can safely assume that it will continue to empower people around the world to create wonderful web spaces. we hope this article helped you understand the history of wordpress. you may also want to see how wordpress works behind the scenes (infographic) and what are the best wordpress plugins that every website should use. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 336 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 11 commentsleave a reply bill tarn says: jul 22, 2019 at 6:35 pm wpbeginner u always made my day when ever i read your article you guys are great. u love you so much. reply wpbeginner support says: jul 23, 2019 at 10:13 am thank you, glad you like our articles reply jasica james says: jun 25, 2019 at 2:30 am very well written article. no doubt your research is very vast covering the entire history of wordpress. keep it up and keep posting such wonderful stuff. reply wpbeginner support says: jun 25, 2019 at 11:55 am thank you, we’ll certainly keep putting out more articles reply clarence johnson says: jul 26, 2018 at 1:06 pm thank you for producing and sharing this. user since 2008. reply john mauldin says: jul 25, 2018 at 11:38 am i met matt mullenweg at one of the very first wordcamps held in frisco, texas, an up and coming new dallas city. the setting was almost lavish, high back, heavily upholstered leather chairs in a semi-circular auditorium that was where the political leaders of frisco assembled. matt as a very soft-spoken man who came across unassuming, approachable and…… contagious due to his passion for wordpress and his vision of the future. with plenty of other attendees and a room full waiting, he took the time to paint a picture of wordpress and what it would mean to me to take my over 150 sites to a new level through wordpress. i was very impressed then and even more impressed of the growth and development exhibited by this man and a first class team of net specialists. reply scott smith says: may 11, 2014 at 8:51 pm quite interesting, but would be even more so had it included the number of wp users and/or sites over the years. reply er.shivam kumar says: may 8, 2014 at 6:43 am inspiring i hope same thing happens to a strong framework named codeigniter which is seeking a new owner reply kate_h says: may 8, 2014 at 2:18 am great post. as a avid wp user and web designer i’ve often wondered about the history of wp but never seem to have the time to delve into it. this had made me even more determined to set aside some time to read and discover more about wp’s origins, so thank you. reply davide de maestri says: may 7, 2014 at 5:49 pm nice post! i didn’t know first wordpress years, thanks for sharing! reply robby mccullough says: may 7, 2014 at 3:49 pm beautiful post! i recently found out that all of wordpress’ version history is available to download and toy around with. i wanted to go back, install a few versions, and see how the software has evolved over the years. this just saved me a bunch of time! reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin rafflepress giveaway and contest plugin for wordpress. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.