skip to content college info geek the college info geek podcast menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search the best podcast for students learn how to be a more effective student, even while you’re doing your laundry. the college info geek podcast features in-depth, actionable advice for boosting your productivity, earning better grades, paying off your student loans, and more. new episodes go live every other monday morning at 8am est. get subscribed! apple podcasts google play spotify youtube more subscription options latest episodes tom and martin discuss working from home (ep. 291) we talk about what it's like and what it takes to get things done remotely, even with all the distractions that might come with being at home. 5 questions: interruptions, social media bios, and reading positions (ep. 290) how to live a less lonely life (ep. 289) ultralearning (ep. 288) view more some of our favorites: how to be good at everything — the rapid skill learning process (ep. 210) morning routines (ep. 208) how to build strong habits (ep. 214) the hedonic treadmill (ep. 226) 10 things we’d tell our 18-year-old selves (ep. 213) a 12-step exam prep checklist (ep. 204) moving out of your mom’s basement: how to live independently (ep. 206) essentialism: how to do more by doing less (ep. 171) 10 essential life skills that every student should have (ep. 175) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.