home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the mushroom hunters: neil gaiman’s feminist poem about science, read by amanda palmer we are listening: diane ackerman’s ode to the search for life beyond earth and our longing for cosmic companionship the universe in verse 2017: full show labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the mushroom hunters: neil gaiman’s subversive feminist celebration of science and the human hunger for truth, in a gorgeous animated short film a lyrical journey into the history of our species as the sensemaking animal who hungers for knowledge and advances by love. by maria popova every year at the universe in verse — the charitable celebration of science through poetry i host each spring — we have the immense honor of an original poem composed for the occasion by one of the most beloved storytellers of our time: neil gaiman. for the inaugural show in 2017, dedicated to trailblazing astronomer maria mitchell and celebrating women’s underheralded contribution to science, he delivered something of singular enchantment — a work of lyrical storytelling tracing the history of our species as the sensemaking, truth-seeking animal who hungers for knowledge and advances by love. at its heart is an imaginative antidote to women’s erasure from the selective collective memory we call history. titled “the mushroom hunters,” lovingly addressed to neil’s newborn son ash, and originally performed by ash’s mother — my dear friend and frequent poetic collaborator amanda palmer — the poem went on to win the rhysling award for best long poem and has now been brought to new life in a soulful short film, animated by artist caroline rudge and creative connection animation studio, narrated by amanda, and with music by the otherworldly talent jherek bischoff. with great subtlety and sensitivity, the art reverences science, embraces the many shapes and colors of womanhood, stretches the poem between past and future, between our ever-dueling human capacities for creation and destruction, and reminds us, as maya angelou so poetically affirmed, that “we are neither devils nor divines.” the mushroom hunters by neil gaiman science, as you know, my little one, is the study of the nature and behaviour of the universe. it’s based on observation, on experiment, and measurement, and the formulation of laws to describe the facts revealed. in the old times, they say, the men came already fitted with brains designed to follow flesh-beasts at a run, to hurdle blindly into the unknown, and then to find their way back home when lost with a slain antelope to carry between them. or, on bad hunting days, nothing. the women, who did not need to run down prey, had brains that spotted landmarks and made paths between them left at the thorn bush and across the scree and look down in the bole of the half-fallen tree, because sometimes there are mushrooms. before the flint club, or flint butcher’s tools, the first tool of all was a sling for the baby to keep our hands free and something to put the berries and the mushrooms in, the roots and the good leaves, the seeds and the crawlers. then a flint pestle to smash, to crush, to grind or break. and sometimes men chased the beasts into the deep woods, and never came back. some mushrooms will kill you, while some will show you gods and some will feed the hunger in our bellies. identify. others will kill us if we eat them raw, and kill us again if we cook them once, but if we boil them up in spring water, and pour the water away, and then boil them once more, and pour the water away, only then can we eat them safely. observe. observe childbirth, measure the swell of bellies and the shape of breasts, and through experience discover how to bring babies safely into the world. observe everything. and the mushroom hunters walk the ways they walk and watch the world, and see what they observe. and some of them would thrive and lick their lips, while others clutched their stomachs and expired. so laws are made and handed down on what is safe. formulate. the tools we make to build our lives: our clothes, our food, our path home… all these things we base on observation, on experiment, on measurement, on truth. and science, you remember, is the study of the nature and behaviour of the universe, based on observation, experiment, and measurement, and the formulation of laws to describe these facts. the race continues. an early scientist drew beasts upon the walls of caves to show her children, now all fat on mushrooms and on berries, what would be safe to hunt. the men go running on after beasts. the scientists walk more slowly, over to the brow of the hill and down to the water’s edge and past the place where the red clay runs. they are carrying their babies in the slings they made, freeing their hands to pick the mushrooms. amanda’s work (like my own) grows from the mycelia of patronage — this magical short film was wholly funded via her patreon, of which i too am a proud and grateful supporter. complement it with neil’s masterpieces from subsequent years of the universe in verse — “after silence,” composed for the 2018 show, dedicated to the life and legacy of marine biologist and ecological patron saint rachel carson, and “in transit,” paying bittersweet tribute to the queer quaker astronomer arthur eddington and composed for the centennial of his historic 1919 eclipse expedition that confirmed relativity, uniting war-torn humanity under one sky and catapulting einstein into celebrity — then savor other highlights from the universe in verse. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published november 25, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/11/25/the-mushroom-hunters-animation-neil-gaiman/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under amanda palmeranimationcultureneil gaimanpoetrysciencethe universe in verse view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.