login sign up home documents buster backstage mugshots time waster about rss tsg facebook tsg twitter home buster march 25, 2020 fearing coronavirus, man, 75, pulled gun on masked women, warned them to "get back" septuagenarian harvey taratoot is facing a felony charge for his pistolero antics at a post office near his georgia home. keep reading » march 23, 2020 police: accused auto thief claimed the coronavirus made him do it after being caught in the hot wheels, alvin rementer, 70, reportedly confessed, saying that he "freaked out over the 'corona' and the overall situation." keep reading » march 20, 2020 toilet paper bandit caught in act, arrested on felony theft charge, cops report the suspect, police charge, tried to make off with 66 rolls of toilet paper from a marriott hotel in orlando, florida. keep reading » view buster blog submit a tip! mugshots backstage riders robert durst the creepy real estate heir (and star of hbo’s “the jinx”) was busted in new orleans in march 2015 on a felony weapons possession rap. view all celebrity mug shots » view all mugshots » bjork the icelandic star, who travels with a chef named numi, desires a "homely atmosphere" backstage. and she may need sessions with an acupuncturist, masseuse, or reflexologist. view all backstage riders » facebook is blocked! most popular document: couple charged with assaulting drunk woman document: friday photo fun match game document: "pee napkin" prompts fight, domestic bust buster: bk brawler’s triumphant return to florida (and by "triumphant" we mean cuffed and stuffed) document: odd squad car nosh caught on police cam featured march 27, 2020 document: crime couple charged with assaulting drunk woman cops: key west vacationers sexually attacked victim, 23 eleanora kurban, 23, and bryce summerlin, 28, were arrested yesterday for allegedly molesting the victim inside a hotel room in late-january, police report. keep reading tweet march 27, 2020 document: internet, crime friday photo fun match game pair up mug shots with each suspect's alleged crime examine the booking photos of five arrested individuals and align the defendants with their respective alleged infractions of the law. keep reading tweet march 26, 2020 document: crime odd squad car nosh caught on police cam cops: man ate bag of drugs "pulled from his butt" after jahrea wallace was busted following a traffic stop, a police cam caught him retrieving a baggy that ended up in his mouth. keep reading tweet fark when argentina offers to do something nice for the falklands, you know it's serious [interesting] america has stopped wearing pants [obvious] ♩ well, our hive is gone, i've lost my bees.♩ chickens is asleep in the willow trees. ♩ the cow is in the water, past her knees. ♩ 85,000 and rising...♩ [scary] more the smoking gun © 2020 tsg industries inc. all rights reserved. home documents buster backstage mug shots time waster about submit a tip privacy statement terms of use