welcome! thanks for visiting. check out my free travel lifestyle guides to get started on your own travel journey! dismiss skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to footer the professional hobo traveling full-time in a financially sustainable way about blog destinations map travel stuff contact books/courses main content hi! i'm nora. i traveled full-time for 12 years (and i still travel half the year). i've lived in and traveled through 60+ countries and counting - in style. and it all cost me way less than you might think. stick around and i'll share my story and teach you my tricks. new to the site? start here. latest posts pro packing hacks: here are the best travel accessories . financial case study: phoebe gill, freelance seo consultant and blogger . my location independent life: 2019 expense report . financial case study: the denning family, online teacher and worldschool academy destinations learn about the 60+ countries that i've lived in or traveled through. click here! top posts checked vs. carry-on luggage (and why checked is best) . virtual mailbox: the easy way to get mail when you travel . my sordid attempts at finding love on the road . brace yourself: travel isn’t all roses and lollipops how-to guides how to become fluent in spanish (and other languages) . a beginner’s guide to frequent flyer miles and how to start travel hacking like a pro . my zero waste kit for travel (and home) . dealing with parasites: a guide to clean water around the world more travel lifestyle guides want proof? full-time travel can take many forms, and with my annual income and expense reports, i prove that it can be financially sustainable. see my reports here life on the road / travel tales redefining my travels in 2019 (where i went) . the ultimate packing list for full-time travel and long-term travel . the 10 commandments for all travelers more of nora's travel tales latest vlogs this is the best way to visit newfoundland . my travel capsule wardrobe: best wrinkle free travel clothes for women . my search for the perfect travel sandal more vlog posts financial case studies financial case study: deborah benbrook – working along the way . financial case study: dalene and pete heck – writers, photographers, media marketers . financial case study: janet brent, graphic designer turned digital storyteller more financial case studies more amazing guides cell phone travel basics: international phone plans, sim cards, and more . how to get 50% off airfare with travel mystery shopping . the best travel websites: super useful sites you’ll use all the time more travel lifestyle guides before footer footer about this website the professional hobo is about how to travel full-time in a financially sustainable way, as experienced since 2006 by nora dunn, former financial planner and current world traveler/writer. writing portfolio & speaking credits contact faqs travel resources copyright © 2009-2020 theprofessionalhobo.com. all rights reserved. disclosure: in accordance with ftc guidelines, i disclose that i may be compensated if consumers choose to utilize links located throughout the content on this site. additionally, some posts might be sponsored to support this blog. please do the appropriate research before participating in any third party offers. all opinions are my own. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. privacy policy: while you may rest assured that we at the professional hobo are not using your information for evil purposes, here is everything you need to know about our privacy policy.