nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop get book suggestions sent to you each month! do you like to read? me too! i average a book a week and read everything from travel to history, biographies, business, psychology, and self-improvement. not only does reading a book kill a lot of time on planes, trains, and buses, it also makes you a smarter, more educated, well-rounded person. i recently started a monthly book club to share the best and most helpful books i’ve read with you. if you are looking for more reading ideas and suggestions, join our monthly club and get a list of books sent to once a month! it’s free and there’s only one email per month! i love reading and want to share all the amazing books i read with you in hopes they will inspire you to travel more and live better. – matt six reasons to sign up for the book club: each month, you’ll get one e-mail with four to five book suggestions for you to read and enjoy. you won’t have to wonder if a book is good or not. you’ll get obscure, literary wonders you’ve never heard of. you’ll learn more about the world and the people in it! you’ll get ideas for future trips. because books make you cool! bonus reason: i often give away books, amazon gift cards, and other literary related items! to get book suggestions sent to you for free, just enter your name and email below: “i want to thank you for helping me rediscover my love for reading with your book suggestions and book club. it helped me create my goal of a book a week this year. almost there! and the four books i just bought will get me a little bit closer.” – chris s. recent book related blogs my favorite books of 2019 my favorite books of 2018 (so far) 13 travel books that will give you serious wanderlust living lagom in sweden: an interview with lola akerstrom some recent suggestions if you’d like to see some of the books from previous emails, check out this page i have on amazon that features all our highlighted books! to get book suggestions sent to you for free, just enter your name and email below: get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site