already one of our nf academy members? login here. payment plan available get healthy, lose weight, and level up your life with other rebels from around the world. our rebel leader, steve, can tell you how! we are surrounded daily by forces trying to get us to stay stuck, unhealthy, distracted, and depressed. we live in a fast food culture. a convenience culture. a “settle for less” culture designed at every turn to bombard us with unhealthy influences, advertisement, and sugar temptations. it’s so freakin’ easy to go to bed each night promising yourself that tomorrow will be different. tomorrow you will find the willpower to resist that sugary morning latte and avoid those quick meals that make you crash and feel defeated. tomorrow is the day you’ll start that new workout program – and this time you’ll stick to it. you even wrote a list out of the reasons why it’ll work this time. we’ve all been there. we know what it’s like to continually start and stop new diets and workout trends only to end up in the exact same place a few weeks or months later. here’s the good news: there is a different approach. we call it the nerd fitness academy, a fitness course which helps you build long-term, sustainable changes – all while completeing quests, gaining experience, battling workout bosses, and literally leveling up your life. men and women from all walks of life are using the nf academy to take back control over their lives. joe lost 130 pounds in 10 months!* staci discovered her love of strength training!* *the individuals above are exceptional examples from our community and do not guarantee individual success. your experience and results may vary. no more guessing. we’ll show you exactly what you need to do to get results… we’ve boiled down the basics of what has worked for our 35,000+ students over the last 8 years and created a self-paced, online course that will provide you with every single tool you need to change your life – starting right now. we focus every step in the nerd fitness academy to eliminate any guess work on your part. mindset module you’ll learn exactly how to break down your old habits that are holding you back – and how to replace them. there is so much more to losing weight than just treadmills and calorie counting. nutrition module we outline exactly what you’ll eat, how to prepare it, and when to eat it. whether you are trying to lose weight, build muscle, or increase energy (or all the above!) we have you covered. fitness module we show you exactly how to train for strength – with or without a gym – and how to do each movement no matter where you are starting from. and our onboarding test will show you exactly what level to start in. you’ll have access to 100+ hd videos that break down every movement for any age, body type, or size. workout routines dozens of step-by-step workout plans that will keep you busy for years. no matter where you are or what you have access to, you can always have a strength-focused workout (no excuses now!). we also have workout “boss battle” to complete at each difficulty level – giving you a clear, measurable plan for when to level up your workouts. have fun completing quests, tracking progress, and gaining experience! the more fun you can make the process – and the easier you can make it to track progress – the more likely you are to get long-term, sustainable results. with that in mind, we’ve developed a way for you to customize your own character, choose a class (or training style you prefer), and complete specially-designed quests as you go. we’re dedicated to not only motivating you, but making the process fun! we have over a hundred quests of all levels for you to work through and mark off! whether you are working on walking for 5 minutes or signing up to run a triathlon, we’ve got quests that’ll help push you to the next step. know exactly where to start – and when to level up – your workouts! when you join the academy today – you’ll be able to take an onboarding test right away that will show you exactly where to start based on your custom results. no more guessing. you’ll know exactly what to do from day one in the academy. as you see progress, we’ll also show you exactly when to make your workouts harder. knowing how to adust your workouts should not require a degree in exercise science. so we created custom boss battles, with fun names and different exercise-based benchmarks. at every level of workout, you’ll know the very next steps to being able to “beat” that level and progress to the next workout. each workout and boss battle can be easily navigated. can you “beat” each boss’s exercise benchmarks and level up? you won’t ever be lost in the academy. and you’ll even unlock new items and more content as you level up (to help you with the new movements). perform exercises confidently and safely with over 100+ step-by-step, high definition videos. we know that sometimes the first step is simply knowing how to go about doing a specific movement or exercise. that’s why we’ve recorded over 100 individual hd videos that show you step-by-step how to complete every movement in the academy with proper form. each video also focuses on exactly how to scale every exercise based on your body and ability level. best of all, these work on any device – meaning that a quick check of your form while in the gym (or a quick review of all the movements before you start) is easy while on the go. can’t do a pushup yet? we’ve planned for that. we show you how to scale your pushups to knee pushups (or incline pushups… or even wall pushups) as you are getting started. we want you to complete every exercise with the confidence that you’re doing things safely and properly. so no matter where you are starting – or what knowledge you may have of exercise movements and form – we are here to walk you through each step and get you ready to rock! fuel your body with simple, easy to follow recipes and sample meal plans. eating and cooking healthy meals should not be torture. we simplify it – and jump start your planning and preparation. our nutrition module is packed with dozens and dozens of healthy recipes – broken down into easy categories. but we know, recipes are useless if you don’t know how to find ingredients, navigate your local grocery store, and cook things that actually taste good. so we’ve built the nutrition sections to focus on getting you the tools to succeed (not just a list of ingredients). we also provide sample meal plans, so you can know what you need to eat on any given day or time. just download, purchase the list, and know in advance what you need to cook. most of our successful students end up finding one or two “staples” they can easily and quickly prepare (and fall back to when times get busy)! downloadables, worksheets, and specialty guides… throughout the course, we’ll also have downloads for you to print and make this journey easier (and more fun). for example, our shopping “cheat sheet” is here to the right. we designed this for you to print, take the store, and quickly use as a reference for what foods are good, just meh (or in moderation), and stay away from if you can. no second guessing, before you put an item in the cart – just check the handy cheat sheet. our other guides and cheatsheets help those who are eating/working out when traveling and/or preparing for a special event (like a vacation or a wedding) and need a more strict, timed nutrition plan to hit a goal. get daily inspiration and accountability from thousands of people on the same journey. many students say their regular interactions in the private facebook groups are worth the price of admission alone! we have different private groups (based on gender) where you can meet and get held accountable by hundreds of like-minded, passionate rebels on the same journey you are. in our members-only groups you can ask for help, follow other’s success, and even post your own updates and big wins from time to time. we love not only to help, but celebrate with you! regardless of your goal, i guarantee there are people in this group who’ve been there and done that – and many more who are working towards the same goals you are. the fact is – most of us don’t have the support system around us to truly build lasting, long-term changes. these private communities will change that for you overnight. you’ll instantly have a group of people to help inspire, share, learn from, and support you – no matter what your support system is like at home. the nerd fitness academy is an online, self-paced course and fitness “quest” tracking system with over 35,000 students from around the globe. together we form the most supportive, understanding, and powerful fitness community on the internet! if you don’t see results, get your money back! my goal with this course is to help you get in the best shape of your life and feel good about yourself. if you happen to develop a super power as a result, i’m okay with that too. i’m confident that if you follow the advice and workout plans, you will see results. however, if for any reason in the next 60 days you decide the academy isn’t for you, just email us and we’ll refund 100% of your money, no questions asked. super simple. seriously. if it doesn’t work for you, we don’t want to keep your money, and will gladly help you find another solution that will work for you. just send us an email, and we will try to point you in the right direction. *note: if a full scale zombie apocalypse occurs in the next 60 days, we may shut off all communications to save power. how much does the nf academy cost? many fitness products or courses charge monthly fees or recurring charges that can total hundreds (if not thousands) of dollars per year. hiring a coach can be helpful for some people, but costs thousands of dollars for a couple hours per month of attention. you also won’t get many of the benefits of an online community and system. our approach to the academy is different. no monthly charges. no recurring payments. a one-time payment of $149 gets you full, immediate access to the entire academy, all bonuses, the quest tracking, and all future updates (for life). your purchase today unlocks everything: mindset module – build your environment of accountability and measurable results. nutrition module – what to eat, when to eat it, and how to prepare it. fitness module – how to train anywhere (home, outdoors, or gym) with complete confidence. workout plans – 25+ individual step-by-step workout plans. easy to follow routines at home or on the go. 100+ hd videos – watch exactly how to properly perform and ways to scale each movement. access quickly and easily on any device, at any time. new – quest tracking system – choose your class, complete fun quests, gain experience, and literally level up using our new system! new – onboarding test and boss battles – know exactly where to start and battle bosses to level up your workouts and unlock additional content. private facebook group – our private facebook community is full of thousands of the most supportive people you’ll meet on the internet. great for daily inspiration. bonus interviews & recordings – interviews with other experts and access to archived recordings of past q&a’s with steve and the nerd fitness team. simple, healthy recipes – step-by-step instructions to equip you to be able to whip up fast, healthy meals. grocery cheat sheet – our cheat sheet shows you what to buy, what to avoid, and what you can splurge on (occasionally). we make it really simple for you. invest $149 with us once, get 100% access to everything in the academy for the rest of your life. rebels of all shapes and sizes are leveling up! saint got in shape for his wedding!* veronica is a busy mother of two!* bronwyn is now a competitive power lifter!* jake lost 70 pounds in 9 months!* *the individuals above are exceptional examples from our community and do not guarantee individual success. your experience and results may vary. frequently asked questions… is this an ebook? i’m confused. nope this isn’t an ebook (or a series of ebooks)! this is an online course that you will log into and learn from at your own pace. you’ll be able to log on anytime, from any device, and access your content wherever you are. we’ll save which workout you are working on (and which exercises bosses you’ve “beaten”) to make it convenient to jump right back in. i won’t know how to do any of the exercises – will this be too hard? we’ve designed the academy, from the ground up, to give you the very next step to complete no matter where you are starting. it doesn’t matter if you haven’t exercised a single day in your life, we’ve had rebels who started walking just a few minutes a day in the beginning. our system is easy, start at the very beginning and move through each section one small step at a time. we make it fun – you’ll be gaining experience and watching your progress as you level up! once you get more comfortable, the workouts and quests scale for even the most intense competitors out there. there is a reason we’ve got so many quests and so many levels, you’ll be able to keep leveling up for a long time to come! i’m vegetarian (or vegan), will this still work for me? the nutrition module of this course is primarily grounded in a nutritional plan of whole foods which includes meat. our meal plans and recipes will not all be adjustable to your exact diet needs in all cases. however, the good news is every other part of the academy gives it’s full benefit. the mindset and fitness modules, all the workouts, the bonuses, the community (which does include vegetarians and vegans), the quest features – all will still work 100% for you. with a few adjustments away from meat – and a focus on getting ample amounts of protein from plant-based sources – you can still see great results and fit right in. we have many members of the rebellion who are vegetarian or vegan. i want to join now, but i’m super busy and can’t start for a few weeks! that’s fine! get on in here! you have complete access to this course. it’s self paced. and we will be constantly updating and improving it. so if you tend to take things slower than others (which we actually recommend when starting), or you have to take a break due to whatever reason, you can pick back up where you left off, when you’re ready. we exist to help you, on your schedule, level up your life. so we’ve built the system to be adaptable to any pace! let’s do this! women’s 101 pay in full! (save 17%) 3 payments of $59! men’s 101 pay in full! (save 17%) 3 payments of $59! remember, if you always do what you’ve always done, you’ll always get what you’ve always got. why not try something different, and see if the academy works for you. thanks for putting your trust in me to help you level up your life. this is gonna be fun. -steve ps: this is a self-paced course, so even if you can’t start immediately, or you take things slower than normal, that’s great. you’ll get full access today and can start when you want and take as long as you want to move through it. © 2018 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy | disclaimer