start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising productivity advertising the importance of scheduling downtime joel falconer editor, content marketer, product manager and writer with 12+ years of experience in the startup, design and tech digital media industries. read full profile share pin it tweet share email you probably read this blog because you want to get more done each day. but do you want to become more productive so that you can maintain a better work-life balance, or so that you can fill up your newly freed hours with more work? sometimes the importance of downtime gets relegated to the sidelines, and we forget that optimal productivity cannot occur without it. you need to rest mind for it to work well on a long-term basis. believe it or not, some of us need to schedule these rest periods and even lay down rules for what can and cannot be done during those times. i’m a classic case – if i didn’t follow my own advice, i’d work almost every minute i’m awake. making the time if you’re not naturally inclined to slowing down and taking a break, the best thing you can do is schedule downtime. i know, downtime just sounds like something that shouldn’t be scheduled, like it ruins the whole idea of relaxing. but if you’re the type who is always tempted to keep working until it’s late at night, it may be the only way. advertising how much downtime you need to schedule is a personal matter that depends on a several factors, such as how much time you need on a physical and mental level to unwind so that you’re optimally productive the next day. it’s tempting to schedule less time than you need (for some, it might be tempting to allocate yourself more time than you should, but self-discipline is another topic altogether!). don’t succumb to that temptation – think about how much you need as opposed to how much you can get by with, and mark that time as downtime in black and white. use alarms and reminders. people who forget to take downtime usually do so because they get carried away with work, often not noticing the passage of time for hours. in that case, there’s little chance you’ll look at the clock and remember that it’s time to go; you’ll need to be prodded. if you’re using a computer program like ical to make your downtime appointments, make use of the reminder and reminder alarm features. keep it strictly downtime set rules for your downtime. you have a goal: to relax and recover from your workday so that you can hit optimum productivity the next day. since it is so tempting for people like us to ditch the downtime and meander off onto other things, it’s important to set rules that keep us within certain boundaries. advertising do you need a computer during your downtime? so surfing or gaming is a hobby of yours when you’re not working, so you shouldn’t rule out the use of computers, but you should restrict what you can and cannot use a computer for. are there certain things you should do with your downtime? perhaps you feel as though you don’t get outside enough, so require that one scheduled downtime session per week involve exercise or, at the least, sitting in the backyard. maybe you need to spend more time with your kids, so give yourself the requirement that you spend a certain amount of time each week playing with them (if you’re not already doing this, this article is even more important for you). i know, it can be hard to follow rules that you set for yourself. self-discipline plays a big part here, and you need to remember that downtime isn’t wasting time. it’s truly important to your continued productivity and happiness. advertising optimizing your downtime proponents of gtd and various other productivity systems have a great tool for optimizing your actions based on observation of the past week and planning for the coming week in the weekly review. if you don’t already use the weekly review i highly recommend that you take the time to check it out and implement it, since it is the wheel that keeps many productivity systems turning. the weekly review should adopt a new component – the weekly downtime review. it’s a good chance to review your past week’s downtime, and to schedule downtime for the next week. why would you review your downtime? measuring your effectiveness at tackling your task list makes sense, but perhaps this seems too clinical. it’s important, though, to gauge how effective your downtime is and how successful you’ve been at making your downtime appointments. advertising how much downtime did you take in the last week? how does that compare to the amount you scheduled? did you get carried away and take a little too much downtime, affecting your productivity levels, or did you fail to take enough? adjust your plans accordingly. if your plans were fine but your follow-through wasn’t, it’s time to crack open a book on self-discipline. downtime is important. the first hurdle one must overcome is often to realize that relaxing isn’t a total waste of time, even if the lack of action makes it feel that way. featured photo credit: lili kovac via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated advertising advertising more by this author joel falconer editor, content marketer, product manager and writer with 12+ years of experience in the startup, design and tech digital media industries. how to master the art of prioritization the importance of scheduling downtime how to make decisions under pressure 11 free mind mapping applications & web services how to use parkinson’s law to your advantage advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques more by this author joel falconer editor, content marketer, product manager and writer with 12+ years of experience in the startup, design and tech digital media industries. how to master the art of prioritization the importance of scheduling downtime how to make decisions under pressure 11 free mind mapping applications & web services how to use parkinson’s law to your advantage trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways how to live longer? 21 ways to live a long life advertising advertising habit productivity advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack read full profile share pin it tweet share email habits are hard to kill, and rightly so. they are a part and parcel of your personality traits and mold your character. however, habits are not always something over-the-top and quirky enough to get noticed. think of subtle habits like tapping fingers when you are nervous and humming songs while you drive. these are nothing but ingrained habits that you may not realize easily. just take a few minutes and think of something specific that you do all the time. you will notice how it has become a habit for you without any explicit realization. everything you do on a daily basis starting with your morning routine, lunch preferences to exercise routines are all habits. habits mostly form from life experiences and certain observed behaviors, not all of them are healthy. habitual smoking can be dangerous to your health. similarly, a habit could also make you lose out on enjoying something to its best – like how some people just cannot stop swaying their bodies when delivering a speech. thus, there could be a few habits that you would want to change about yourself. but changing habits is not as easy as it seems. in this article, you will learn why it isn’t easy to build new habits, and how to change habits. table of contents what makes it hard to change a habit? what can you do to change a habit? final thoughts more about changing habits what makes it hard to change a habit? to want to change a particular habit means to change something very fundamental about your behavior.[1] hence, it’s necessary to understand how habits actually form and why they are so difficult to actually get out of. the biology habits form in a place what we call the subconscious mind in our brain.[2] advertising our brains have two modes of operation. the first one is an automatic pilot kind of system that is fast and works on reflexes often. it is what we call the subconscious part. this is the part that is associated with everything that comes naturally to you. the second mode is the conscious mode where every action and decision is well thought out and follows a controlled way of thinking. a fine example to distinguish both would be to consider yourself learning to drive or play an instrument. for the first time you try learning, you think before every movement you make. but once you have got the hang of it, you might drive without applying much thought into it. both systems work together in our brains at all times. when a habit is formed, it moves from the conscious part to the subconscious making it difficult to control. so, the key idea in deconstructing a habit is to go from the subconscious to the conscious. another thing you have to understand about habits is that they can be conscious or hidden. conscious habits are those that require active input from your side. for instance, if you stop setting your alarm in the morning, you will stop waking up at the same time. hidden habits, on the other hand, are habits that we do without realizing. these make up the majority of our habits and we wouldn’t even know them until someone pointed them out. so the first difficulty in breaking these habits is to actually identify them. as they are internalized, they need a lot of attention to detail for self-identification. that’s not all. advertising habits can be physical, social, and mental, energy-based and even be particular to productivity. understanding them is necessary to know why they are difficult to break and what can be done about them. the psychology habits get engraved into our memories depending on the way we think, feel and act over a particular period of time. the procedural part of memory deals with habit formation and studies have observed that various types of conditioning of behavior could affect your habit formations. classical conditioning or pavlovian conditioning is when you start associating a memory with reality.[3] a dog that associates ringing bell to food will start salivating. the same external stimuli such as the sound of church bells can make a person want to pray. operant conditioning is when experience and the feelings associated with it form a habit.[4] by encouraging or discouraging an act, individuals could either make it a habit or stop doing it. observational learning is another way habits could take form. a child may start walking the same way their parent does. what can you do to change a habit? sure, habits are hard to control but it is not impossible. with a few tips and hard-driven dedication, you can surely get over your nasty habits. here are some ways that make use of psychological findings to help you: 1. identify your habits as mentioned earlier, habits can be quite subtle and hidden from your view. you have to bring your subconscious habits to an aware state of mind. you could do it by self-observation or by asking your friends or family to point out the habit for your sake. advertising 2. find out the impact of your habit every habit produces an effect – either physical or mental. find out what exactly it is doing to you. does it help you relieve stress or does it give you some pain relief? it could be anything simple. sometimes biting your nails could be calming your nerves. understanding the effect of a habit is necessary to control it. 3. apply logic you don’t need to be force-fed with wisdom and advice to know what an unhealthy habit could do to you. late-night binge-watching just before an important presentation is not going to help you. take a moment and apply your own wisdom and logic to control your seemingly nastily habits. 4. choose an alternative as i said, every habit induces some feeling. so, it could be quite difficult to get over it unless you find something else that can replace it. it can be a simple non-harming new habit that you can cultivate to get over a bad habit. say you have the habit of banging your head hard when you are angry. that’s going to be bad for you. instead, the next time you are angry, just take a deep breath and count to 10. or maybe start imagining yourself on a luxury yacht. just think of something that will work for you. 5. remove triggers get rid of items and situations that can trigger your bad habit. stay away from smoke breaks if you are trying to quit it. remove all those candy bars from the fridge if you want to control your sweet cravings. advertising 6. visualize change our brains can be trained to forget a habit if we start visualizing the change. serious visualization is retained and helps as a motivator in breaking the habit loop. for instance, to replace your habit of waking up late, visualize yourself waking up early and enjoying the early morning jog every day. by continuing this, you would naturally feel better to wake up early and do your new hobby. 7. avoid negative talks and thinking just as how our brain is trained to accept a change in habit, continuous negative talk and thinking could hamper your efforts put into breaking a habit. believe you can get out of it and assert yourself the same. final thoughts changing habits isn’t easy, so do not expect an overnight change! habits took a long time to form. it could take a while to completely break out of it. you will have to accept that sometimes you may falter in your efforts. don’t let negativity seep in when it seems hard. keep going at it slowly and steadily. more about changing habits 11 important things to remember when changing habits how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life featured photo credit: mel via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ psychology today: why is it so hard to change bad habits? [2] ^ speakingtree: what is conscious and subconscious mind? [3] ^ psychol belg.: classical conditioning: classical yet modern [4] ^ instructional design: operant conditioning (b.f. skinner) share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next what is a habit? understand it to control it 100% how to break a habit and hack the habit loop how to find your keystone habits to change your life advertising advertising more by this author leon ho founder & ceo of lifehack the lifehack show: yoga to combat stress and improve your life with nicole lovald how systems thinking makes you a smarter person how do you change a habit (according to psychology) how to learn quickly and master any skill you want what is creativity? we all have it, and need it advertising trending in productivity 1 how do you change a habit (according to psychology) 2 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 3 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 4 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 5 how to take notes: 3 effective note-taking techniques read next how to use observational learning to learn effectively why negative self talk is bad for you (and how to end it in 3 steps) how to think effectively: 12 powerful techniques how to type faster: 12 typing tips and techniques about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.