home about us programs 10x speaking program™ signature public speaking program storytelling to influence charisma for executives bookings gallery contact home about us 10x speaking program™ signature public speaking program storytelling to influence charisma for executives bookings gallery contact no.1 singapore corporate training company for speaking & communication take your career to the next level . . . the world of business is highly competitive. by mastering the skill of public speaking — and its related disciplines — you’ll gain an advantage over everyone else in your sphere. to help facilitate the meteoric rise of your career, we offer 4 in-depth training programs for adults in singapore: => our renowned 10x speaking program™ => the signature public speaking program => storytelling to influence => charisma for executives of course, there are other companies that provide seemingly similar training. however . . . our programs are better . . . why? because our training is based on practical, real-world application — not theory alone. many courses are mostly fluff and filler. but our training programs focus on public speaking skills that produce results. communication skills are essential for all aspects of business. ours are designed to give you an advantage. . . so you’ll stand out from the crowd and excel in the world of business. as a public speaking “rock star,” you’ll give others a positive impression and cause them to trust you. it will give people confidence in you and your abilities. in other words . . . a new and brighter future is waiting for you . . . you need these skills; they are no longer optional. because, without them, you’re likely to be passed up and eclipsed by others who do possess superior skills. but — with our expertly crafted programs & delivery — you can learn everything you need to know to take your speaking skills and career to the next level. these skills are useful not just on stage, but in any scenario… be it small team meetings, large meeting rooms, boardrooms, or even press conferences. direct hands-on coaching. . . receive your coaching from one of the best speaking coaches in the world. ezekiel chew is a world-class speaker who speaks at various platforms, expo and stages all over the world. he is frequently asked to speak on topics such as business, leadership, forex, sales & motivation. he is also a highly sought-after keynote speaker in the corporate world. ezekiel speaks & trains on stages where the audience ranges from hundreds to thousands but he also specialises in holding corporate training for smaller groups in order to achieve maximum effectiveness. apart from speaking & training, ezekiel fronts various companies in other industries and is a sought-after strategic growth advisor for businesses and entrepreneurs. receive direct hands-on personal coaching from a speaker who speaks on world stages. ezekiel is not your typical public speaking coach/trainer that is employed to coach you. he truly walks the talk as he doesn’t only apply the speaking skills on stage but also leads his team in his businesses and consults for his clients. ezekiel’s coaching sessions are proven to be highly effective and rated to be among the best in the world. read more our programs teach valuable skills . . . skills that are perfect for individuals in sales, training, management, executive positions, ceos, entrepreneurs, business owners, teachers… and anyone looking to improve their speaking skills and level of influence. you can choose to do nothing. or, you can contact us today and advance your career . . . click here to learn more about our renowned 10x speaking program™ home about us programs 10x speaking program™ signature public speaking program storytelling to influence charisma for executives copyright © the public speaking company | public speaking for kids bookings gallery contact call: 9236 9899 email: enquiry@publicspeaking.com.sg