stitcher for podcasts get the app open app error - there was an error with your download request. try again later. close get the stitcher app take your podcasts on-the-go! download the free app get the stitcher app send a link to your phone to take your podcasts on the go. we sent you a link did you get it? retry close bummer! you're not a stitcher premium subscriber yet. learn more start free trial $4.99/month after free trial get the app learn more premium top shows listen shows see more shows and episodes sign in sign up help the tim ferriss show play play this show add to playlist shareshare this show facebook tweet linkedin cancel about this show show info: tim ferriss is a self-experimenter and bestselling author, best known for the 4-hour workweek, which has been translated into 40+ languages. newsweek calls him "the world's best human guinea pig," and the new york times calls him "a cross between jack welch and a buddhist monk." in this show, he deconstructs world-class performers from eclectic areas (investing, chess, pro sports, etc.), digging deep to find the tools, tactics, and tricks that listeners can use.read more » tim ferriss is a self-experimenter and bestselling author, best known for the 4-hour workweek, which has been translated into 40+ languages. newsweek calls him "the world's best human guinea pig," and the new york times calls him "a cross between jack welch and a buddhist monk." in this show, he deconstructs world-class performers from eclectic areas (investing, chess, pro sports, etc.), digging deep to find the tools, tactics, and tricks that listeners can use. read less @tferriss /timferriss listen whenever ios android web player related shows most recent episode play save episode #417: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more 1 day ago · 124 minutes dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more | brought to you by nutribullet and trello.“all of us, regardless of what stage of life we’re at, we’ve got three basic needs: we all want to know that we matter, we want to be seen for who we are, and we want to know that we’re loved.” — dr. vivek murthydr. vivek h. murthy (@vivek_murthy, vivekmurthy.com) served as the 19th surgeon general of the united states between 2014-2017. as the vice admiral of the us public health service commissioned corps, he commanded a uniformed service of 6,600 public health officers globally. during his tenure, dr. murthy launched the turnthetide campaign, catalyzing a movement among health professionals to address the nation’s opioid crisis. he also issued the first surgeon general’s report on alcohol, drugs, and health, calling for expanded access to prevention and treatment and for recognizing addiction as a chronic illness, not a character flaw.in 2017, dr. murthy focused his attention on chronic stress and loneliness as prevalent problems that have profound implications for health, productivity, and happiness. he has co-founded a number of organizations: visions, an hiv/aids education program in india; swasthya, a community health partnership in rural india training women as health providers and educators; software company trialnetworks; and the grassroots physicians organization doctors for america.since leaving government service, dr. murthy has continued to focus on loneliness and social connection. his book together: the healing power of human connection in a sometimes lonely world will be published this spring by harper collins.please enjoy! this episode is brought to you by nutribullet. nutribullet is the affordable, easy-to-use, easy-to-clean blender that was first recommended to me by entrepreneur noah kagan when i interviewed him for the podcast. its signature blending process transforms high-fiber veggies, nuts, seeds, and fruits into silky, nutrient-dense smoothies (or protein shakes, savory soups, and dips) that are easy to digest and absorb.now, the engineers at nutribullet have created an incredibly convenient upgrade named the nutribullet blender combo. this device is their most versatile yet, allowing you to effortlessly switch between single-serve and full-size blending—everything you know and love about the classic device, plus all the performance and capacity you expect from a full-size blender. don’t settle for blenders that leave your smoothies filled with chunks. get the nutribullet blender combo, and introduce your veggies and fruits to 1,200 watts. it easily gets the job done. and for you, my dear listeners, nutribullet is offering 20% off of all products on its website. to get your 20% off, just go to nutribullet.com/tim!this episode is also brought to you by trello. now, more than ever, teams must come together and work together virtually to handle chall... read more » dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more | brought to you by nutribullet and trello.“all of us, regardless of what stage of life we’re at, we’ve got three basic needs: we all want to know that we matter, we want to be seen for who we are, and we want to know that we’re loved.” — dr. vivek murthydr. vivek h. murthy (@vivek_murthy, vivekmurthy.com) served as the 19th surgeon general of the united states between 2014-2017. as the vice admiral of the us public health service commissioned corps, he commanded a uniformed service of 6,600 public health officers globally. during his tenure, dr. murthy launched the turnthetide campaign, catalyzing a movement among health professionals to address the nation’s opioid crisis. he also issued the first surgeon general’s report on alcohol, drugs, and health, calling for expanded access to prevention and treatment and for recognizing addiction as a chronic illness, not a character flaw.in 2017, dr. murthy focused his attention on chronic stress and loneliness as prevalent problems that have profound implications for health, productivity, and happiness. he has co-founded a number of organizations: visions, an hiv/aids education program in india; swasthya, a community health partnership in rural india training women as health providers and educators; software company trialnetworks; and the grassroots physicians organization doctors for america.since leaving government service, dr. murthy has continued to focus on loneliness and social connection. his book together: the healing power of human connection in a sometimes lonely world will be published this spring by harper collins.please enjoy! this episode is brought to you by nutribullet. nutribullet is the affordable, easy-to-use, easy-to-clean blender that was first recommended to me by entrepreneur noah kagan when i interviewed him for the podcast. its signature blending process transforms high-fiber veggies, nuts, seeds, and fruits into silky, nutrient-dense smoothies (or protein shakes, savory soups, and dips) that are easy to digest and absorb.now, the engineers at nutribullet have created an incredibly convenient upgrade named the nutribullet blender combo. this device is their most versatile yet, allowing you to effortlessly switch between single-serve and full-size blending—everything you know and love about the classic device, plus all the performance and capacity you expect from a full-size blender. don’t settle for blenders that leave your smoothies filled with chunks. get the nutribullet blender combo, and introduce your veggies and fruits to 1,200 watts. it easily gets the job done. and for you, my dear listeners, nutribullet is offering 20% off of all products on its website. to get your 20% off, just go to nutribullet.com/tim!this episode is also brought to you by trello. now, more than ever, teams must come together and work together virtually to handle chall...read less embed episodes of this show #416: how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more 19 minutes | · 6 days ago play play this show #415: lori gottlieb — the power of getting to *unknow* yourself 98 minutes | · mar 19 play play this show #414: jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos 120 minutes | · mar 12 play play this show #413: tyler cowen on rationality, covid-19, talismans, and life on the margins 121 minutes | · mar 5 play play this show load more episodes bvseo_sdk, p_sdk, 3.2.0 cloud, getreviews, 14.32ms reviews, product bvseo-msg: http status code of 404 was returned; the easiest way to listen to podcasts on your iphone, ipad, android, pc, smart speaker — and even in your car. for free. bonus and ad-free content available with stitcher premium. get the free app now available for iphone, ipad, android and alexa © stitcher 2019, all content is copyright of its owners. this site is protected by recaptcha and the google privacy policy and terms of service apply podcasts stitcher originals the stitcher list news technology business news sports storytelling partners partner signup partner portal partner faq advertisers about download podswag gifting midroll newsroom stitcher blog careers faqs contact privacy do not sell my info terms of use sitemap follow us