skip to content 3× annual “best of” apple podcasts 400+ million episodes downloaded 8,000+ 5-star reviews the blog of author tim ferriss tim ferriss's 4-hour workweek and lifestyle design blog. tim is an author of 5 #1 nyt/wsj bestsellers, investor (fb, uber, twitter, 50+ more), and host of the tim ferriss show podcast (400m+ downloads) latest episode: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download menu home podcast all episodes and guests sponsorship and advertising newsletter books tim’s books the tim ferriss book club about tim ferriss bio causes media kit and samples terms of service disclosure – the full monty privacy policy contact media kit and samples contact corrections? please fill out this form. jobs search for: search posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417) 3 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print “all of us, regardless of what stage of life we’re at, we’ve got three basic needs: we all want to know that we matter, we want to be seen for who we are, and we want to know that we’re loved.” — dr. vivek murthy dr. vivek h. murthy (@vivek_murthy, vivekmurthy.com) served as the 19th surgeon general of the united states between 2014 and 2017. as the vice admiral of the us public health service commissioned corps, he commanded a uniformed service of 6,600 public health officers globally. during his tenure, dr. murthy launched the turn the tide campaign, catalyzing a movement among health professionals to address the nation’s opioid crisis. he also issued the first surgeon general’s report on alcohol, drugs, and health, calling for expanded access to prevention and treatment and for addiction to be recognized as a chronic illness, not a character flaw. in 2017, dr. murthy focused his attention on chronic stress and loneliness as prevalent problems that have profound implications for health, productivity, and happiness. he has co-founded a number of organizations: visions, an hiv/aids education program in india; swasthya, a community health partnership in rural india training women as health providers and educators; software company trialnetworks; and the grassroots physicians organization doctors for america. since leaving government service, dr. murthy has continued to focus on loneliness and social connection. his book together: the healing power of human connection in a sometimes lonely world will be published this spring by harper collins. please enjoy! listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. this podcast is brought to you by nutribullet and trello. more on both below. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #417: dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more https://rss.art19.com/episodes/206cd7fc-e344-4897-b31b-d038e19f5330.mp3download this episode is brought to you by nutribullet. nutribullet is the affordable, easy-to-use, easy-to-clean blender that was first recommended to me by entrepreneur noah kagan when i interviewed him for the podcast. its signature blending process transforms high-fiber veggies, nuts, seeds, and fruits into silky, nutrient-dense smoothies (or protein shakes, savory soups, and dips) that are easy to digest and absorb. now, the engineers at nutribullet have created an incredibly convenient upgrade named the nutribullet blender combo. this device is their most versatile yet, allowing you to effortlessly switch between single-serve and full-size blending—everything you know and love about the classic device, plus all the performance and capacity you expect from a full-size blender. don’t settle for blenders that leave your smoothies filled with chunks. get the nutribullet blender combo and introduce your veggies and fruits to 1,200 watts. it easily gets the job done. and for you, my dear listeners, nutribullet is offering 20% off of all products on its website. to get your 20% off, just go to nutribullet.com/tim! this episode is also brought to you by trello. during tough times like these, one thing that brings us all together is our common humanity. another is technology. now, more than ever, teams must come together and work together virtually to handle challenges, opportunities, and everything in between. trello, part of atlassian’s collaborative suite, is an app with an easy-to-understand visual format and tons of features that make working with your team more functional and more fun. teams of all shapes and sizes—and companies like google, fender, and even costco—use trello to collaborate and get work done. it’s one of the few tools that has made the cut with my team. with trello, you can work with your team wherever you are, whether it’s at home or in an office. and no matter what device you’re using—computer, tablet, or phone—trello syncs across all of them so you can stay up to date on all the things your team cares about. keep your workflow going from wherever you are with trello. try trello for free and learn more at trello.com/tfs! what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… continue reading “dr. vivek murthy — former surgeon general on combatting covid-19, loneliness, and more (#417)” posted on march 21, 2020march 21, 2020 how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) 58 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print (short episode: ~18 minutes) i expect next week will be an exceptionally difficult week for many people and many cities, new york city chief among them. there are several very urgent needs. this episode will highlight things that can be done to help healthcare workers (food, temp housing, ppe, ventilators and vent modification for higher capacity, etc.), as well as a few companies well positioned to immediately help. i would encourage you to think of healthcare workers, alongside people working on vaccine development and drug development, as the walls of our collective city. by protecting and helping them, we protect and help ourselves and everyone around us. if they fail, we all fail. these brothers and sisters on the front lines need help now, and it cannot wait a week. if it weren’t for healthcare workers, i would be dead. if not for healthcare workers, my dad would be dead, and three uncles and two aunts would also be dead. if you are lucky enough to be healthy and reading this, you likely owe some thanks to healthcare workers. they are the (usually) invisible safety net for us all. thank you for listening to this one. it’s important. listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #416: how to help healthcare workers — plus suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more https://rss.art19.com/episodes/1b022b47-e22b-4d6e-87ae-b66d2638d2b7.mp3download selected links from the episode tim.blog/fightcovid tim.blog/ventilator flexport.org/donate bill ackman (@billackman) ryan petersen (@typesfast) paul graham (@paulg) @airbnb @hiltonhotels @sweetgreen @ubereats @amazon posted on march 20, 2020march 20, 2020 emergency technique: how to increase ventilator capacity 2–4x in 10 minutes 29 comments topics: categorieswriting and blogging share this: facebook twitter email reddit print the next two weeks are going to be very difficult, and the risk of ventilator shortages due to covid-19 is high. manufacturing will ultimately help, but it takes time. i’m already aware of one hospital in new york that can no longer provision one “vent” per patient, and demand is likely to grow dramatically over the next 7–10 days as cases spike. even with full lockdown and total compliance, one could expect admittance to grow for 10–12 days minimum, based on the data we have from other countries. in emergency circumstances, the below modification can be completed in less than 10 minutes and enables one ventilator to intubate as many as four people (instead of one). i first learned of it from victor cheng earlier this week, and dr. charlene babcock demonstrates it below: this has been performed successfully in animals, such as on four human-sized (70kg) sheep (increasing ventilator surge capacity in disasters: ventilation of four adult-human-sized sheep on a single ventilator with a modified circuit), and dr. charlene babcock from the above video has also completed proof of concept studies with colleagues. the following text is from victor cheng’s blog post: in 2006, dr. greg neyman and dr. charlene babcock, emergency medicine physicians in detroit, michigan, did a study on exactly this. they wondered if, during a disaster-related surge of patients, a ventilator could be reconfigured to support multiple patients. would it work? short answer: yes. they used standard equipment found in an emergency room to create a two-way and four-way splitter. they then used the ventilator to ventilate four simulated-lung devices for 12 hours. these devices had several sensors to track the output of the ventilator for each “lung.” the data collected showed that the pilot project was successful. another possible option: a separate friend in healthcare (thanks, franz!) linked me to the philips respironics bi-level ventilator bipap a40 and noted the following, which i’ve slightly edited for format: [hospitals] should consider using small cpap devices with modes designed to deliver timed breaths. they look like small niv or cpap devices and are commonly used with a mask interface. but it may not be common knowledge that these devices are also approved for invasive ventilation and that they have pressure control modes with timed breaths. in the above option, i realize that monitoring would be sub-optimal and that there are other complications to consider, but some oxygen may be better than no oxygen. i am publishing this post with the full understanding that: some hospitals are already considering these types of contingencies and preparing for worst-case scenarios. that said, many are not, hence this post. these solutions aren’t optimal, but they are likely better than choosing who lives and who dies, as we’ve seen happen in italy. in the case of dr. babcock’s demonstrated modification, if doctors can match up size and lung compliance, and provided patients can all be on the same settings and you’re willing to accept cross-contamination on a single machine, this could very well save lives. if you agree, thank you for sharing this piece. and if you’re looking for some inspirational reading, i highly suggest “not all heroes wear capes: how one las vegas ed saved hundreds of lives after the worst mass shooting in u.s. history.” posted on march 19, 2020march 25, 2020 lori gottlieb — the power of getting to *unknow* yourself (#415) 7 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print photo by shlomit levy bard “insight is the booby prize of therapy.”— lori gottlieb lori gottlieb (@lorigottlieb1) is a psychotherapist and author of the new york times bestseller maybe you should talk to someone, which is being adapted as a television series by eva longoria and the creators of the emmy and golden globe-winning series the americans. in addition to her clinical practice, she writes the atlantic’s weekly “dear therapist” advice column and contributes regularly to the new york times and many other publications. her recent ted talk is one of the top 10 most-watched of the year, and she is a sought-after expert in media such as the today show, good morning america, cbs’s early show, cnn’s newsroom, and npr’s fresh air. her new iheart podcast, dear therapists, produced by katie couric, will premiere this year. please enjoy! listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. this podcast is brought to you by four sigmatic and linkedin jobs. more on both below. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #415: lori gottlieb — the power of getting to *unknow* yourself https://rss.art19.com/episodes/1d23d955-0b81-413c-af59-910febb38094.mp3download this podcast is brought to you by four sigmatic and their delicious mushroom coffee featuring lion’s mane and chaga. it tastes like coffee, but there are only 40 milligrams of caffeine, so it has less than half of what you would find in a regular cup of coffee. i do not get any jitters, acid reflux, or any type of stomach burn. it’s organic and keto friendly, plus every single batch is third-party lab tested. you can try it right now by going to foursigmatic.com/tim and using the code tim. you will receive up to 25% off on the lion’s mane coffee bundle. plus, you will receive an additional 20% off at checkout. simply visit foursigmatic.com/tim. if you are in the experimental mindset, i do not think you’ll be disappointed. this episode is also brought to you by linkedin jobs. hiring can be hard, and it can be super expensive and painful if you get it wrong. today, with more qualified candidates than ever—but also more noise than ever—employers need a hiring solution that helps them find the right people for their businesses. linkedin jobs provides just that by screening candidates with the hard and soft skills you’re looking for so you can quickly find and hire the right person. linkedin can make sure your job post gets in front of people you want to hire—people with the right skills and qualifications, as well as other insights that help linkedin paint a better picture of potential candidates. it’s no wonder great candidates are hired every eight seconds on linkedin. find the right person meant for your business today with linkedin jobs. you can pay what you want, and the first $50 is on linkedin. just visit linkedin.com/tim to get $50 off your first job post! terms and conditions apply. what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… continue reading “lori gottlieb — the power of getting to *unknow* yourself (#415)” posted on march 17, 2020march 18, 2020 predicting hospital capacity: why to act early, how to think about lag time, and a model you can use 142 comments topics: categorieswriting and blogging share this: facebook twitter email reddit print note from tim: the following was written by a close friend who has decades of experience in healthcare systems and advanced training in computer science and healthcare data science. he preferred to publish anonymously to avoid political headaches, so i’ll call him “felix.” we are publishing this quickly for reasons that will soon be obvious, so please excuse any typos. this is a work in progress, and we encourage leaving comments if you have any suggestions for improvement. there are already some excellent comments at the end of the post with additional recommendations. enter felix… during this coronavirus crisis, the paramount objective has become avoiding hospital overflow, which would make the mortality rate skyrocket. we’re trying to accomplish this with voluntary social distancing, but it’s evident that that’s not going to be enough. so how early should governments start introducing mandatory quarantines? the answer is much, much earlier than you might think. in the following example, we can show mathematically that a city that institutes a city-wide quarantine when its hospitals are anywhere from 4% to 20% full can still easily exceed its total hospital capacity. the assumptions underlying this model are at the high end of current estimates in order to make a point, but they are well within the realm of possibility. there are two important concepts here that humans are not wired to understand, and it takes some time to wrap your head around them. exponential growth, when combined with lag time, can create some wildly counterintuitive effects. say you have a city (let’s call it springfield) where new covid infections per day are growing. the numbers are doubling every 5 days: 10–20% of infected people will need to be hospitalized. from the day a person gets infected, it takes an average of 10 days for them to seek hospital care. so if we had 1000 new cases of coronavirus on day 1, using the high end of the estimate, we can expect 200 cases to arrive at the hospital on day 11. we can chart the new daily hospital cases for our beloved city of springfield. let’s also say that the average hospital stay is 12 days. so coronavirus cases start to accumulate in the hospital: now, let’s say there are 5000 total hospital beds in all of springfield. the mayor is watching dutifully, but his team, overwhelmed with other duties, aren’t carefully considering exponential growth in combination with lag time. he sees that about 80% (4000) of his beds are occupied on day 20, and realizes the city needs to do a full quarantine. he orders it promptly on day 20, so that he can avoid his hospitals overflowing. new infections reliably start to fall on day 21 and continue to fall forevermore: what happens to new daily hospital cases? remember there’s a 10-day lag. so on day 21 you’ll get 20% of day 11’s new infections: hospital cases continue to increase after day 20 even though we instituted a quarantine! on day 20 we were only getting day 10’s victims into the hospital. the people infected on day 20 won’t show up at the hospital until day 30. will we overflow our hospitals? how many total beds will we need? remember: the patients will accumulate since it takes 12 days to be discharged. let’s extend our total beds occupied graph: total hospital beds needed doesn’t peak until day 35, even though we quarantined on day 20. it peaks at around 22,000—more than 4 times as many beds as there are in springfield. given the numerical assumptions above, if you quarantine when your hospitals are 80% full, you can expect to exceed your total number of hospital beds by more than 300%. you can see this playing out in italy right now. they’ve quarantined, but the hospital cases will still rise for many days after the quarantine is instituted. so how early should we start the quarantine in order to avoid our hospitals overflowing? let’s see what the max hospital bed need is for different points of quarantine: if you quarantine at 50% full on day 17, you’ll still have a peak hospital need of 16,812 beds. (remember: there are only 5000 total hospital beds in all of springfield) if you quarantine at 25% full on day 14, you’ll still have a peak hospital need of 11,092 beds. if you quarantine at 4% full on day 10, you’ll still have a peak hospital need of 6,370 beds. in this example, if you want to avoid hospital overflow, you have to start quarantining when your hospitals are 3% full. of course, this extreme example starts at 1,000 cases on day 1 with only 5000 total beds. the effects of exponential growth are less extreme if you start with a smaller number of initial cases. nevertheless, it’s valuable to have this example drive the point home that in order to prevent hospital overflow, you have to quarantine surprisingly early. there are some fundamental assumptions i’ve made up here that you may disagree with, such as the initial case count, growth rate, the hospitalization rate, etc. if you’d like a rough estimate of when would be the appropriate time to quarantine for your particular geographic region, you can modify all the numerical assumptions and run different scenarios by copying the template here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1huifj98v53xv1liwry_83wapzwteqbhl5h1gmsvujps/edit#gid=571616345 [note from tim: this spreadsheet is read-only. click on file –> make a copy to duplicate it for your own scenarios.] additional comments: the author is a data scientist but not an epidemiologist. any feedback from epidemiology experts about underlying factors is encouraged in the comments. the underlying assumptions have been pulled from papers about covid-19 published in recent months. they are at the high end of estimated ranges but not outside of what experts believe to be the possible ranges. there are far more sophisticated ways to model epidemics, such as sir and stochastic input modeling. the point of this article is to spread understanding so we chose to use the simplest possible model that still shows the dangers of exponential growth. posted on march 17, 2020march 17, 2020 comfort challenge #5: use the criticism sandwich 32 comments topics: categoriescomfort challenges share this: facebook twitter email reddit print if you try this comfort challenge, please share your experience in the comments below! i’d love to read them. it’s always a hilarious and valuable exploration of getting more comfortable with discomfort. here is the original text of the challenge from the 4-hour workweek: continue reading “comfort challenge #5: use the criticism sandwich” posted on march 12, 2020march 13, 2020 jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) 26 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print “we have the opportunity, even in difficult times, to let our spirit shine.”— jack kornfield jack kornfield (@jackkornfield) trained as a buddhist monk in the monasteries of thailand, india, and burma, shortly thereafter becoming one of the key teachers to introduce buddhist mindfulness practice to the west. he has taught meditation internationally since 1974. jack has had a profound and direct impact on my life, and i’m thrilled to have him on the podcast once again. jack co-founded the insight meditation society in barre, massachusetts (with fellow meditation teachers sharon salzberg and joseph goldstein), and the spirit rock center in woodacre, california. he holds a phd in clinical psychology and is a father, husband, and activist. jack’s books have been translated into 20 languages and have sold more than a million copies, including the wise heart; a lamp in the darkness; a path with heart; after the ecstasy, the laundry (one of my favorite book titles of all time); and his most recent, no time like the present: finding freedom, love, and joy right where you are. he offers a brilliant online training program for those who want to learn to teach meditation at jackkornfield.com. this episode is more of a personal therapy session for yours truly in some respects. you will notice that i sound anxious and unsure in this interview, and that is very much by design. i think it is unhelpful when people in the public eye hide the fact that they also struggle, and it puts them on this illusory pedestal that i think is ultimately self-defeating. instead, i want to share with you that no matter how much stoic philosophy i read, no matter how often i meditate, there are times when i struggle, and this week is one of them. i also hope that you’ll listen to portions of this conversation multiple times. there are a number of exercises that jack shares that i will certainly be listening to in the upcoming weeks. please enjoy. listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #414: jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos https://rss.art19.com/episodes/e330e413-15f9-4472-8a58-e1d287b6833d.mp3download this episode is brought to you by freshbooks. i’ve been talking about freshbooks—an all-in-one invoicing+payments+accounting solution—for years now. many entrepreneurs, as well as contractors and freelancers that i work with, use it all the time. freshbooks makes it super easy to track things like expenses, project time, and client info and then merge it all into great-looking invoices. freshbooks can save users up to 200 hours a year on accounting and bookkeeping tasks. right now, freshbooks is offering my listeners a free 30-day trial, and no credit card is required. go to freshbooks.com/tim and enter “tim ferriss” in the “how did you hear about us?” section! this podcast is also brought to you by 99designs, the global creative platform that makes it easy for designers and clients to work together to create designs they love. its creative process has become the go-to solution for businesses, agencies, and individuals, and i have used it for years to help with display advertising and illustrations and to rapid-prototype the cover for the tao of seneca. whether your business needs a logo, website design, business card, or anything you can imagine, check out 99designs. you can work with multiple designers at once to get a bunch of different ideas or hire the perfect designer for your project based on their style and industry specialization. it’s simple to review concepts and leave feedback so you’ll end up with a design that you’re happy with. click this link and get $20 off plus a $99 upgrade. what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… continue reading “jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414)” posted on march 10, 2020march 10, 2020 comfort challenge #4: revisit the terrible twos 27 comments topics: categoriescomfort challenges share this: facebook twitter email reddit print if you try this comfort challenge, please share your experience in the comments below! i’d love to read them. it’s always a hilarious and valuable exploration of getting more comfortable with discomfort. note: due to concerns about the coronavirus, we are skipping comfort challenge #3 (“get phone numbers”), and we are going directly to comfort challenge #4 (“revisit the terrible twos”). here is the original text of the challenge from the 4-hour workweek: continue reading “comfort challenge #4: revisit the terrible twos” posted on march 5, 2020march 16, 2020 tyler cowen on rationality, covid-19, talismans, and life on the margins (#413) 39 comments topics: categoriesthe tim ferriss show share this: facebook twitter email reddit print “if you need to measure, you’ve failed.” — tyler cowen professor tyler cowen (@tylercowen) has a personal moonshot: to teach economics to more people than anyone else in the history of the world—and he might just succeed. in addition to his regular teaching at george mason university, tyler has blogged every day at marginal revolution for almost 17 years, helping to make it one of the most widely read economics blogs in the world. tyler cocreated marginal revolution university, a free online economics education platform that’s reached millions. he is also a bestselling author of more than a dozen books, a regular bloomberg columnist, and host of the popular conversations with tyler podcast, where he examines the work and worldviews of thinkers like martina navratilova, neal stephenson, reid hoffman, and many more. his latest project is emergent ventures, a $5 million fund to support entrepreneurs who have big ideas on how to improve society. please enjoy! listen to the episode on apple podcasts, spotify, overcast, stitcher, castbox, google podcasts, or on your favorite podcast platform. you can also watch the conversation on youtube. listen onapple podcasts listen onspotify listen onovercast #413: tyler cowen on rationality, covid-19, talismans, and life on the margins https://rss.art19.com/episodes/fd46e92f-170b-4fb3-b7ad-7e0157e8f967.mp3download this episode is brought to you by nutribullet. nutribullet is the affordable, easy-to-use, easy-to-clean blender that was first recommended to me by entrepreneur noah kagan when i interviewed him for the podcast. its signature blending process transforms high-fiber veggies, nuts, seeds, and fruits into silky, nutrient-dense smoothies (or protein shakes, savory soups, and dips) that are easy to digest and absorb. now, the engineers at nutribullet have created an incredibly convenient upgrade named the nutribullet blender combo. this device is their most versatile yet, allowing you to effortlessly switch between single-serve and full-size blending—everything that you know and love about the classic device, plus all the performance and capacity you expect from a full-size blender. don’t settle for blenders that leave your smoothies filled with chunks. get the nutribullet blender combo, and introduce your veggies and fruits to 1,200 watts. it easily gets the job done. and for you, my dear listeners, nutribullet is offering 20% off of all products on its website. to get your 20% off, just go to nutribullet.com/tim! this episode is also brought to you by expressvpn. i’ve been using expressvpn since last summer, and i find it to be a reliable way to make sure that my data is secure and encrypted, without slowing my internet speed. if you ever use public wi-fi at, say, a hotel or a coffee shop (where i often work and as many of my listeners do), you’re often sending data over an open network, meaning no encryption at all. one way to ensure that all of your data is encrypted and can’t be easily read by hackers is by using expressvpn. all you need to do is download the expressvpn app on your computer or smartphone and then use the internet just as you normally would. you click one button in the expressvpn app to secure 100% of your network data. use my link expressvpn.com/tim today and get an extra three months free on a one-year package! what was your favorite quote or lesson from this episode? please let me know in the comments. scroll below for links and show notes… continue reading “tyler cowen on rationality, covid-19, talismans, and life on the margins (#413)” posted on march 2, 2020march 2, 2020 comfort challenge #2: learn to propose 51 comments topics: categoriescomfort challenges share this: facebook twitter email reddit print if you try this comfort challenge, please share your experience in the comments below! i’d love to read them. it’s always a hilarious and valuable exploration of getting more comfortable with discomfort. here is the original text of the challenge from the 4-hour workweek: continue reading “comfort challenge #2: learn to propose” posts navigation page 1 page 2 … page 100 next page join 1.5m+ subscribers and receive exclusive tools, tips, and resources directly from tim: type your email address yes, sign me up for tim's free email newsletter. i agree to the privacy policy. get access twitter instagram facebook youtube linkedin click to subscribe apple podcasts spotify overcast popular podcasts brené brown — striving versus self-acceptance, saving marriages, and more (#409) how to support healthcare workers now — plus urgent suggestions for uber eats, hilton, amazon, and more (#416) jack kornfield — how to find peace amidst covid-19, how to cultivate calm in chaos (#414) the top 25 episodes of the tim ferriss show from 2019 most popular pages 11 reasons not to become famous (or “a few lessons learned since 2007”) podcast – the tim ferriss show the best books and articles i read in 2019 finding the one decision that removes 100 decisions (or, why i’m reading no new books in 2020) topics 30-day challenges (2) 4-hour case studies (50) automation (7) comfort challenges (4) dance (3) e-mail detox (23) entrepreneurship (60) fearless (2) filling the void (93) gadgets (15) geoarbitrage (8) interviews (29) investing (18) language (16) low-information diet (42) marketing (54) mental performance (42) mini-retirements (24) muse examples (9) nonsense (5) opening the kimono – otk (4) outsourcing life (17) physical performance (51) practical philosophy (39) presentations (3) protecting time (14) psychedelics (14) quarterly shipments (3) random (29) remote offices (7) rockstar living in… (5) rust and iron (2) science (5) the 4-hour body – 4hb (48) the 4-hour chef – 4hc (39) the 4-hour chef recipes (1) the book – 4hww (44) the slow-carb diet (4) the tim ferriss experiment – tfx (11) the tim ferriss show (394) the tim ferriss show transcripts (256) tim ferriss book club (6) tools of titans (8) travel (67) tribe of mentors (10) writing and blogging (35) books by tim ferriss the 4-hour workweek the 4-hour body the 4-hour chef tools of titans tribe of mentors we use cookies and similar technologies to run this website and help us understand how you use it. see our cookie policy here. sitemap site terms of service privacy policy copyright © 2007–2020 tim ferriss. the 4-hour® is a registered trademark of tim ferriss. all rights reserved. privacy policy proudly powered by wordpress | hosted by pressable send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.