wordpress.com menu features themes plans blog support sign up log in the wordpress.com blog the wordpress.com blog create with confidence — and better blocks the evolution of the block editor is packed full of features and ui improvements. start building! march 26, 2020 / 1 ramon how to move your classes online — and charge for them with tools like the recurring payments button and the calendly block, you can move your classes online today. / 3 artur piszek expert advice: how to make a great website for your small business – webinar in an upcoming webinar on april 2, learn tips on site design, seo, monetization, and mobile optimization. march 25, 2020 / 7 marjorie on working remotely: an automattic reader new to remote work? we’ve compiled some of the best resources automatticians have created on the topic. march 20, 2020 / 14 jeff rozic wpblocktalk: a free online event focused on the block editor join the wordpress community on april 2 for talks on the block editor, block development, and design in a world of blocks. march 18, 2020 / 20 cheri lucas rowlands announcing a new scholarship for lgbtq+ wordpress community members automattic announces a scholarship for the lgbtq+ wordpress community to provide financial support in attending a wordcamp flagship event. march 11, 2020 / 10 niesha sweet turning a page with page layouts need to add a new page to your site but don’t know where to start? making a brand new site on wordpress.com and want to design a homepage quickly? there’s a new addition to the wordpress experience that’ll help with exactly that. let’s take a look at page layouts! they’re … march 9, 2020 / 14 ian stewart a crash course in remote management curious about managing teams while working remotely? watch this free webinar for best practices. march 6, 2020 / 19 cate huston improved offline publishing the path to a better offline experience in our mobile apps. january 30, 2020 / 17 diegoreymendez the block editor is now supported on the wordpress native apps the block editor allows for a smoother drafting experience – now possible on any screen size. january 20, 2020 / 27 karen attfield power users rejoice: you’ve got sftp and database access three new hosting management tools give you direct access to your site’s files and data. december 18, 2019 / 14 ian m. all posts from 2020 search read our other blogs: discover wordpress.com vip news go by wordpress.com data.blog design.blog want to start a blogging habit or set up a business website? get step-by-step guidance from wordpress.com pros, right in your inbox. our email courses are free to all and there are no prerequisites. visit blogging university create your new blog or website for free get started get started create your own website do more features store themes developers community support forums wordcamps wordpress.org company f • t our story privacy terms of service matt mullenweg we are hiring php developers. join us! from our blogs broken all-time favorites retrospective a treasure trove of archives: our absolute favorite posts an automattic experiment