 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the best content creation tools 2020 written by anya skrba updated: january 06, 2020 the content of your blog or a website is the bait that attracts your readers. without great content, even the most well-designed, tightly-structured blogs will ultimately fail. so how do you decide which content creation tool best fits you? well, we have created a list of the best content creation tools for you to decide which content tool is down your alley. how to write blog content learn what content your blog should consists of, types of content you can create and blogging practices you should follow. read the guide why do you need content creation tools? you may have heard so many times that content is a king. if you try to provide high-quality content on a regular basis that helps your target readers solve their problems, then they will see you as a credible and trustworthy source of information. they will come back at your website whenever they need something only you can provide. you also may think that this is easier said than done but if you use the right tools from our list, you will know exactly what direction to take when creating content for your new blog. plus, you will be able to create compelling content that will satisfy every reader’s need. types of digital content some people have trouble deciding what type of content they could create and due to different content types it’s hard to decide what to choose. and there are new types of content coming out almost every day. 100+ types of digital content you can make how do you decide which type of content best fits you? well, we have created a list of more than 100 types of content for you. read the guide our recommended copywriting tool write better, right now! grammarly makes you a better writer by finding and correcting up to 10 times more mistakes than your word processor. get grammarly, it’s free! list of the most popular content creation tools this section provides a list of different content creation tools available on the web today. we analysed the ease of use of most popular tools and included them in our list. people are encouraged to make recommendations based on their user experience by voting for the specific tool. with this information, we hope that you will be able to pick the perfect tool. scoop.it scoop.it is a content marketing software company. they operate the scoop.it platform, a content curation service, and market their content marketing software to businesses. visit scoop.it coschedule’s headline analyzer free headline analyzer that will score your overall headline quality and rate its ability to result in social shares, increased traffic, and seo value. visit coschedule’s headline analyzer portent title maker portent title maker is a famous title generator you can use to come up with an array oftitles for your next blog post or presentation. visit portent title maker contently contently is a software business built by content creators. visit contently giphy giphy is an online database and search engine that allows users to search for and share animated gif files. visit giphy hubspot’s topic generator blog topic generator is a great tool that helps you produce a week’s worth of titles and topic ideas. visit hubspot’s topic generator buzz sumo buzzsumo is powerful online tool that allows any user to find out what content is popular by topic or on any website. visit buzz sumo copyscape copyscape is a free plagiarism checker. it lets you detect duplicate content and check if your articles are original. visit copyscape diigo diigo is the complete solution for online information workflow management, editing and sharing. visit diigo epicbeat epicbeat is tool created by epictions technology company, that helps you to zone in on trending content that’s generating engagement and starting conversations. visit epicbeat intellyo creator engine platform to plan, optimize and distribute content through digital platforms. it’s backed up by an seo analyzer, keyword research, grammar checker and different authority levels (editor in chief and copywriters). visit intellyo creator engine placeit video maker placeit video maker lets you quickly and easily make professional videos for your brand or business in seconds, no video editing skills or complicated software required. with hundreds of options and an easy to use interface, making professional videos – from slideshows to intros and even instagram stories – has never been easier. visit placeit conclusion in order for your blog or website to stand out from the crowd, you need to create content which provides your audience with relevant and useful information and gives them real value. 2 comments on “the best content creation tools 2020” ray april 13, 2018 at 9:22 am grammarly is an amazing tool! i really don’t want to know what my e-mails looked like before :)) reply dylan april 12, 2018 at 1:50 pm if the image is worth thousand words, how many words we can trade for a quality gif? 🙂 it is great to see that giphy made a place on such a prominent list! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.