skip to content college info geek the ultimate study music playlist menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search the ultimate study music playlist this is a playlist of my favorite study music. it’s great for homework, studying for exams, reading, and generally getting crap crossed off my many checklists. i’ve been working on this playlist for several years, and it contains music (all non-lyrical) from a wide variety of genres and sources, including video game/anime/movie soundtracks. at the moment, it’s got about 240 songs for you to choose from. listening on another app? i’ve worked to mirror this study playlist to other services. check them out below: spotify study music playlist apple music study playlist if you’d like, you can study with me in another tab while this plays. you can also listen to the playlist on youtube instead of on this page. by the way – i create my own study music as well! if you’d like to give it a listen, here’s a playlist: you can also follow me on spotify or on youtube if you want to be notified when new tracks are released. need even more study music? here are a few options. brain.fm – music designed specifically to help you focus more effectively. it works really well for me, and i use it for around 50% of my research, writing, and reading sessions – the other half are mostly done with the playlist above. this link will get you 5 free sessions, and you can get 20% off a subscription by using the code collegeinfogeek20 (which will also help support my work via a referral commission). piano study playlist – if you’re in the mood for a more consistent playlist, check out this one full of solo piano tracks. coffitivity – sometimes i’m in the mood for ambient noise instead of music, and the sounds of a bustling coffee shop are my personal favorite type. noisli – an ambient noise generator that lets you create your own mix using sounds like rain, thunder, fan, and white/brown/pink noise. more playlists work vibes – my personal playlist of “getting-stuff-done” music. most of the tracks here have vocals, so i wouldn’t read or study intently with them. but they’re great for crushing emails, working on design projects, or doing other work where i simply need to execute quickly. tom’s workout playlist – a collection of the tracks that usually accompany me to the gym. more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.