the americans | episodes | fx networks featured shows movies live news fxnow app alexa shop log out shows movies channels fx on hulu episodes cast/crew extras news downloads photos more tumblr social tumblr social fxnetworks shows the americans the americans season 6 official trailer about the show the americans is a period drama about the complex marriage of two kgb spies posing as americans in suburban washington d.c. during the reagan administration. the arranged marriage of philip (matthew rhys) and elizabeth jennings (keri russell) grows more passionate and genuine by the day, but as the pressures and demands of the job grow heavier, the personal toll becomes almost too exhausting to bear. having revealed their true identities to their teenage daughter paige (holly taylor), philip and elizabeth’s ability to protect their cover and their family’s safety deteriorates. after a particularly fraught mission, philip and elizabeth decide to end their tour and take their family home to russia. however, a game-changing development in one of their ongoing cases forces them to abandon those plans for the sake of the motherland. now, paige delves deeper into the family business, even as philip takes a step back from it. the jennings struggle to maintain a smokescreen of normalcy, especially around their son, henry (keidrich sellati), who remains blissfully ignorant of the spies in his midst. their neighbor and philip’s best friend, fbi agent stan beeman (noah emmerich), has also yet to discover their true identities. although he’s transferred divisions, stan remains their greatest threat since his friend and former partner, agent dennis aderholt (brandon j. dirden), leads the force tasked with uncovering the soviet illegals hiding in plain sight. with gorbachev in power in the soviet union, the winds of change are sweeping through both russia and america, creating new perils. a growing rift within the kgb draws disillusioned former officer oleg burov (costa ronin) back into the fray, and may set philip and elizabeth on opposing sides as the cold war reaches its boiling point. connect : #theamericans #theamericans “in this platinum age of television, right now the leader in the clubhouse is the americans” - the hollywood reporter “thrilling…the emotional danger makes it irresistible” - the new york times “still the best-kept secret on tv…the americans is increasingly the consensus ‘best show on tv’” - vox “the best show on television” - vulture “yes, the americans is still the best drama on television” - the washington post “the best drama on television…an exceptional case in today's tv landscape” - esquire you may also like devs the most dangerous animal of all mrs. america fargo see all shows get the fxnow app watch full episodes and movies on-demand from anywhere › find your channel do not sell my info press interest-based ads tv control updated privacy policy contact us advertise with us tv rating guide terms of use jobs your california privacy rights children’s online privacy policy find your channel tv control tv rating guide do not sell my info updated privacy policy terms of use press contact us jobs interest-based ads advertise with us your california privacy rights children’s online privacy policy ™ twentieth century fox film corporation and © 2020 fx productions, llc. all rights reserved. use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these terms of use and privacy policy. ™ twentieth century fox film corporation and © 2020 fx productions, llc. all rights reserved. use of this website (including any and all parts and components) constitutes your acceptance of these terms of use and privacy policy. download fxnow to watch full episodes of your favorite fx and fxx shows. download fxnow to watch blockbuster movies. to watch full episodes, download fxnow to watch full episodes, download fxnow to watch full episodes, download fxnow return to full site american horror story: cover "boy parts" ep.2 sn.3 this video is outside of your subscription package in order to wtach this episode of american horror story you will need to update your subscription package. contact service provider back sign in find your provider. sign in. watch full episodes. select your participating tv provider to access full-length shows. can't find your provider? sign in with your tv provider to unlock this episode to continue watching this episode, sign in with your tv provider user id and password. sign in now to access this episode and more, including all current season episodes of many shows! see all providers need help? unsaved changes you've made some changes which will be lost if you leave this page! leave page stay on page