see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login customer support salary calculator latest articles popular growth customer service culture product customer service salary data discover what you should be getting paid with our customer support calculator. the salary calculator simple calculator based on an annual survey of customer support professionals across companies, industries and the world. help desk software - customer support software how many years of experience do you have? less than 1 year 1 - 3 years 3 - 5 years 5 - 10 years 10+ do you work full-time (30+ hours/week)? no occasionally (regularly but less than 50% of the time) 50% of the time 100% of the time what's the cost of living where you live? $ (e.g. manila, delhi, hanoi) $$ (e.g. tallinn, san antonio, santiago) $$$ (e.g. nashville, birmingham (us), vienna, austin, las vegas, tel aviv) $$$$ (e.g. san francisco, hong kong, sydney, london, paris, new york) we don’t collect or share calculator info; results are anonymous. support professionals like you typically earn: $65,000 usd *results based on salary reported by participants with matching or comparable experience, type of support, location, and remote work status. use the calculator again 2018 customer support salary study learn more about what customer support professionals are earning in 2018. read the report customer support salary studies 2018 customer support salary study new help scout & support driven 2017 customer support salary study help scout & support driven 2016 customer support salary study help scout & support driven 2015 support driven compensation survey support driven about the studies each year, support driven and help scout team up to survey customer support professionals about what they earn relative to their experience, company size, location, gender and other factors. we then analyze that survey data and publish this study and the accompanying salary calculator. over the years, the customer support salary study has become an indispensable data point in a broader and evolving discussion about the value of customer service work — a critical discussion to have, when companies are increasingly competing on customer experience, and support professionals have greater choices among employers who value their skills and compensate accordingly. we continue to conduct and publish this study so that managers, employees and job seekers can have more informed conversations about compensation and professional development. tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout join 251,101 readers who are obsessed with delivering great customer service.