home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » plumbing » the app that saved my butt – diyz app review the app that saved my butt – diyz app review october 31, 2016 brittany bailey 15 comments 92shares facebook twitter pinterest just the other week we had a situation in the handy household. it was a recurring issue and was bound to get out of control resulting in a big mess sooner or later. fortunately, the situation happened while handsome guy was traveling so i had a few days to try to resolve the problem. ultimately i ended up doing some research to find a solution and that’s how i discovered the app that saved my butt: diyz app review. diyz app review i have to admit, when i first heard about this app it didn’t sound like anything revolutionary. you can get a ton of diy tutorials all over the web and youtube. but, when i tried the diyz app, my mind was changed forever. this is where i should mention that this is a sponsored post for diyz. but, i wouldn’t write about any app unless i truly thought it is a good resource for you, my loyal handy readers. now that we got that out of the way, here’s how the story unfolded. we have a toilet downstairs that has always been temperamental. it usually acts up when we have company and then it’s embarrassing for all parties concerned. but, this toilet was usually set right with a few healthy plunges. hopefully you understand that we put up with this cycle (clog-yell-plunge-solved) for nine years. fast forward to a few weeks ago as i tried unsuccessfully to clear that problem toilet once again. i plunged and plunged (while silently cursing my boys who were probably guilty of clogging it) until the plunger broke. i went over possible solutions in my head: hire a plumber – no, too expensive. replace the toilet – maybe as a last resort. search the web for ideas to unclog a toilet – free, but it’s hard to know which advice is good advice. i happened to remember the diyz app (that i downloaded this summer) and figured, what the heck. i found a tutorial for how to unclog a toilet. within the app, you can shop for all the tools you need for the job. i purchased an auger and tried to clear the clog, but still had no luck. drat! i knew it was time to take more drastic measures. i looked through the plumbing tutorials on diyz until i found the one i needed: the tutorial was a quality video that included a list of tools and materials i’d need. the required safety gear is well illustrated. (any tutorial that mentions the suggested safety measures gets a gold star from me!) a list of the steps were spelled out in the beginning. after watching the video i felt confident to take on the task by myself. (of course it would be easier with a helper, but no one was around to help me.) i starting by turning off the water. then i followed the step-by-step tutorial from diyz. thanks to this app, we had a working toilet downstairs within a few hours. and it saved my butt because i know handsome guy would not have been happy to come home from his trip to this sight: let me tell you why i really think the diyz app rocks. have you ever gotten stuck in the middle of a project and need an answer from a pro? or have you wanted someone to double check your work? this is the feature that sets diyz apart from the any other diy tutorial source: if you need a pro, you can have a licensed professional on the phone to help you in a minute. this is a revolutionary service. think about it — you can get instant advice. just send photos or switch to video chat to show the licensed pro the issues you’re dealing with. no more wondering who you can trust and who you can call. no more rushing back to the home improvement store to try to hunt down someone to answer your question. and no more watching youtubers who may or may not give you the answers you need. how much do you think this service costs? remember licensed contractors can charge up to $150 per hour. for that reason, you’ll be thrilled to hear that this service is free until the end of the year! in 2017, the get pro advice will begin charging $10 for the first 10 minutes and $1 a minute after that. definitely more cost effective than hiring a pro! the app is now available for free download in the apple app store for iphone and google play for android. diyz also has more than just plumbing tutorials. learn how to fix or update just about anything in your home from the diyz app. go ahead, download the app right now! what are you waiting for? it’s free and you have nothing to lose. you can watch lots of tutorial videos in your free time. educate yourself and learn how to complete your own home repairs and improvements. i can’t even begin to tell you how much money you’ll save doing it yourself. handy hints: if you do have to replace your toilet, i have a few tips for you if you are flying solo. have a large lawn and leaf bag sitting next to the toilet. set the toilet inside the bag to catch any drips as you escort your toilet out of the house. 2. if you are installing the toilet yourself, it can be difficult to line up the toilet on the bolts. cut a drinking straw in half and put a straw on each bolt. this makes it a little easier to line up the holes in the toilet base with the bolts. 3. add scrap boards on either side of the waste pipe to rest the toilet on top of before seating the toilet and compressing the wax ring. this will allow you to line up the bolts, then remove one board at a time to slowly lower the toilet while double checking that it is still lined up with the bolts. one last tip. don’t forget to remove the rag before setting the toilet (ask me how i know.) are you curious about what caused our toilet to clog beyond fixing? well, it was actually my fault. unbeknownst to me, my camera remote fell out of my pocket and into the toilet. for once i couldn’t blame it on any of the boys or men in my life. it was my fault! i had no idea, but it had wedged itself in the toilet. even though i could have re-set the old toilet and called it a day, i decided to replace the toilet with a newer dual flush toilet and save water in addition to saving our guests any more embarrassment. i’m happy to say the new toilet works perfectly! and that’s how a little app called diyz saved my butt! 😉 disclosure: this is a sponsored post for diyz. i was approached about working with diyz, but didn’t agree until after i found the app extremely helpful while replacing our toilet. i was not told what to write. all opinions are my own. i am particular about the brands i represent and will always let you know when you are reading a sponsored post. 92shares facebook twitter pinterest you might also like: plumbing, product review comments jen c. says november 1, 2016 at 3:41 pm awesome! where did you find the new toilet? what do you think so far? reply brittany bailey says november 1, 2016 at 4:55 pm jen, we bought the kohler cavata from lowe’s. things i don’t like are: the comfort height isn’t very comfortable. the soft close seat closes too slow for my impatience. things i like: the dual flush. it hasn’t clogged yet. https://www.lowes.com/pd/kohler-cavata-white-1-6-1-1-gpf-6-06-4-16-lpf-12-rough-in-watersense-elongated-dual-flush-2-piece-chair-height-toilet/4070737 reply jen m. says november 1, 2016 at 9:12 pm very cool! my guy does most of the diy around here–i’m more the designer/artist/girl–but i enjoy learning about this stuff, so that i can pitch in, too. i will definitely be looking into this app and suggesting it to him, as well! i love your blog! reply brittany bailey says november 1, 2016 at 9:51 pm thanks jen. definitely download the app, you’ll learn even more! reply julie k says november 1, 2016 at 9:40 pm this sounds like the perfect app for my guy, who seems to get right to the end of a project and then project fail! reply brittany bailey says november 1, 2016 at 9:48 pm yes! this would be perfect for him. reply pat says november 1, 2016 at 11:22 pm brittany. why no choose this instead of the wax ring? sani seal waxless toilet gasket http://www.truevalue.com//catalog/product.jsp?productid=57193&parentcategoryid=15&categoryid=2218&subcategoryid=1831&type=product&cid=gooshop&source=google_pla&9gtype=%7bifsearch:search%7d%7bifcontent:content%7d&9gkw=%7bkeyword%7d&9gad=%7bcreative%7d.1&9gpla=%7bplacement%7d&ctcampaign=4680&ctkwd=%7bproduct_id%7d&ctmatch=&ctcreative=%7bcreative%7d&ctplacement=154990-44622122499&gclid=cicl_vinidacfuy2gqodcjuc3a reply janis says november 3, 2016 at 5:06 pm oh my goodness i am going to be installing a new toilet in the next few weeks (after i install a glue-down lvt plank floor) in my 1/2 bath. i will also be doing this myself. this was so helpful. i am going to download the app as soon as i finish typing this 🙂 reply jenni says november 16, 2016 at 7:39 pm i will remember this for future diy projects. i have seen other women who replaced their own toilet, and it doesn’t really look that difficult. plus, i have a relative who’s a 3rd-gen master plumber so i could call him in a pinch! 🙂 reply will says november 9, 2017 at 4:26 pm sooooo…. did you really need to replace the toilet, then? reply brittany bailey says november 9, 2017 at 4:31 pm need is a strong word, but in this case i felt it was the best solution since this toilet was always clogging (even pre-camera remote clog) and occasionally overflowing (especially on guests.) i’m super glad i did because we haven’t had any clogs in the year since it has been installed. reply candy vivier says october 23, 2018 at 11:18 pm i am convinced that hell is actually the plumbing aisle at home depot. or purgatory. whatever. i am almost handy with most things home related, however i am convinced there are orcs and trolls lurking under the house. will not go near plumbing. kudos for braving the monsters. reply monique says february 6, 2019 at 1:52 pm diyz is gone 🙁 reply brittany bailey says february 12, 2019 at 11:04 am oh no! thanks for letting me know. reply leave a reply cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok