engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field latest in gaming capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 56m ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 3h ago view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field 3h ago view engadget podcast: how games (and animal crossing!) are keeping us sane 7h ago view image credit: the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field custom loadouts should be harder to obtain, and rage quitters may cause fewer problems. marc deangelis 3h ago comments 53 shares share tweet share sponsored links infinity ward/raven software/activision call of duty: warzone is the long-running franchise's attempt to jump on the free-to-play battle royale bandwagon, and according to critics and players, it's probably worth checking out if you're a fan of the genre -- the game has over 30 million players already. there are some issues, though, and a new patch should take care of a few of them. namely, custom loadouts will be harder to obtain, meaning players will have a more even selection of weapons -- or will have to play better to gain the advantage of using their favorite guns. warzone players used to pay $6,000 in in-game cash -- which is obtained by looting enemies -- for a loadout. less experienced gamers have far less of a chance of having enough funds for a loadout, which made the game noticeably unbalanced. warzone also allows those who have played 2019's call of duty: modern warfare to bring their hard-earned weapons with them, making it even more difficult for new players to stay competitive. the patch raises the price to $8,500, and will hopefully make custom weapon selections more of a reward than a standard part of the game. another tweak nerfs the game's shotgun, which previously could cause a one-hit-kill if fired at close range. the update will make it harder for shotgun users to go on killing sprees. players who purchase special ammo can still achieve one-hit-kills with the shotgun, though. rage quitters will hopefully cause fewer headaches, too -- the game will count certain quits as kills. call of duty: warzone is only a few weeks old, so it's encouraging to see infinity ward taking care of players' gripes so quickly. hopefully the changes help make the game more enjoyable to newcomers without turning off long-time modern warfare players. in this article: activision, av, battle royale, call of duty, call of duty modern warfare, call of duty warzone, free to play, games, gaming, infinity ward, modern warfare, patch, pc games, pc gaming, ps4, update, warzone, xbox one all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments 53 shares share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr