home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles travel prevnext the best road trips in europe for the family leyla preston wed 6th jun 2018 1shares share tweet pin seven million people decided to holiday in the uk last summer and (bar the unpredictable weather) it’s clear to see why. our green and pleasant land are dotted with beautiful landscapes, historical landmarks and welcoming town-folk. one of my favourite holidays involved a quaint one-night coastal cottage stay with the family in dorset and i had a great time with the family, just getting back to nature and enjoying a more simplified life – a far cry from the fast-paced london hustle and bustle. you can’t beat driving through europe with the family and, until three years ago, the longest road trip we had embarked upon was a 2 ½ hour journey to bournemouth, to bask in one of our home-grown beaches. however, in 2016, we had decided to set off on our longest and most arduous journey yet, an exhausting 13-hour road trip to switzerland (yes) and, even though i said i wasn’t going to do that again, we are actually planning to hire a car and make the journey to switzerland again in july for a wedding! driving around europe is really fun! we didn’t have to worry about baggage control, or waiting in the long stuffy queues at the airport. we could set off and stop at wherever we wanted and the towns and landmarks we saw on the way were magical. we captured so many memories on camera during our travels which we wouldn’t have been able to save if we flew by plane. despite the numerous pit stops, the boys (then 4 and 5) were absolutely fine and rode along the trip like warriors. if a long road trip isn’t for you, then, thankfully, the uk has tons of other awesome road trips to offer. deals and discounts company, www.myvouchercodes.co.uk has some top tips on what to see and do on your uk road trip, as well as the important issue of costs and how to plan for a summer road trip. they also have a really cool infographic, which lists the 5 uk road trips perfect for families and individuals alike! but if you do fancy planning a trip to europe by car then kwik fit have come up with some great routes for you in the form of an ebook. you can access the ebook here (or below), but here is a summary of the best road trips in europe for the family this summer: table of contents grossglockner hochalpenstrasse, austria length and time: closest airport: route 500, germany length and time: closest airport: trollstigen, norway length and time: closest airport: ring of kerry, ireland length and time: closest airport: route one, iceland length and time: closest airport: spoleto to norcia, italy length and time: closest airport: grossglockner hochalpenstrasse, austria the grossglockner hochalpenstrasse is a high alpine mountain pass that weaves through the austrian alps. at 48km and reaching more than 2,500m altitude, it’s not for the faint of heart but if you take a small, light car with you, you can witness the sheer beauty in the late spring, early summer, as the route is closed from november until may as it becomes dangerous during the winter. there is a toll charge of £35 per car and £25 per motorcycle. while you’re there, make sure to stop off at the hohe tauern national park, which is the largest national park in middle europe. length and time: 30 miles, approximately 1 hour closest airport: salzburg route 500, germany a particular favourite for motorcyclists, the oldest and most treasured route 500 road through germany’s black forest is purely magic, sending adventurous drivers deep into the midst of the forest and through the mountains. take a dip in the baden springs, stop off at hohenbaden castle, and take in the crystal clear air in freudenstadt at the eastern edge of the northern black forest. if you’re travelling by car, have some season tyres fitted so you’re covered in all weather conditions. motorcyclists are banned from certain parts of route 500 so check your route beforehand. length and time: 40 miles, approximately 1 hour closest airport: euroairport basel, frankfurt airport, stuttgart trollstigen, norway the ‘trolls path’ in norway has one of europe’s most winding roads, with a steep 10-degree incline and 11 hairpin bends. however, you can stop at the stunning views of stigfossen waterfall, which falls for more than 1,000 metres, and the famous national tourist route which leads you through the norwegian fjords and across one of the world’s most stomach-churning bridges. the challenging terrain would probably fit a smaller car with a four-wheel-drive that’s great for gripping the winding roads. the route is closed through late autumn and all of winter, so head over in the summer. length and time: 4 miles, 2-3 hours (including landmark stops) closest airport: molde airport, aro ring of kerry, ireland ireland’s picturesque iveragh peninsula, the ring of kerry, offers an unforgettable irish journey, where you’ll transition from forest to leafy upland to beach scenes to fishing harbours. experienced routers recommend starting the journey in killarney and then taking the n72 up to killorglin. from there you can join the n80 around the peninsula to kenmare before returning to killarney via the n71. always drive anticlockwise around the ring of kerry to avoid traffic issues in the narrower sections of the route. it would be handy to have a paper map to hand too if digital navigation fails as mobile signals will often dip through the forests. the lanes are narrow, so opt for a smaller car that will allow you to easily navigate the curves with ease. length and time: 110 miles, allow 1 – 2 days for full circuit during daylight closest airport: kerry route one, iceland iceland’s route one offers spectacular sights, from erupting geysers spurting boiling water metres up in the air, to volcanoes and lava fields of the blue lagoon and it’s so simple to book an iceland car rental. you can spot extraordinary waterfalls and even try your luck at whale-watching, as well as catching the northern lights. route one is accented with photo opportunities along the way, so leave plenty of time in your schedule to enjoy the detours and explore the track. stop at the solhelmasandur plane crash where a united states navy dc-3 plane crashed on the beach in 1974. make sure to fill up your tank before you head off as there aren’t many gas stations around. also, many of the stations are self-service so ensure to pack your credit card too. a good quality four-wheel drive will be able to take you through the elements on this route. length and time: 800 miles, 7 – 10 days closest airport: reykjavik spoleto to norcia, italy italy is well known for its scenery as well as it’s coffee and gelato, and this scenic route does not disappoint. sample the olives in spoleto as you start on your journey and take in the town before you hit the road towards valnerina. then head upwards towards norcia and grab yourself some fresh italian air where you can visit the benedictine monastery and the incredible views of the sibillini mountains. to make sure you witness the mass of floral nature at the piano grande, visit in late may to early june when it will be in full bloom. the castelluccio village is 1,452 metres high in the sky so even when the sun is shining down on your bonnet, prepare for snow and ice when you reach this point. make sure to pack sunscreen and sunglasses as well as a warm hat and glasses. consider driving an automatic car for greater ease of use and driver comfort. length and time: 101 miles. allow 4 – 6 hours to include photo opportunities closest airport: perugia this summer. bundle up your family into the car/van/caravan/rv, get your tyres kitted out (our favourite store is kwik fit) and head out onto the open road to see the best that europe has to offer by checking out kwik fit’s guide to europe’s top road trips and plan your europe trip with the family this summer! *collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:#roadtripsofeuropecareuropefamily road triprvsummervehicle related posts how to rv in the winter blackberry pie recipe 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... fieldlife ss14 boys drawstring shorts pr... summer berries crunch cake recipe top five family holiday destinations to ... how to make the most of the blackberry s... family car repairs that you can do yours... blackberry, strawberry and dark chocolat... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... get out and about this summer with muddy... tips on how to cope with the heat during... how to avoid damaging your family car th... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... protect your children’s eyes this summer... how to enjoy a proper sit-down family me... almond and blackberry biscuit squares re... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... why we decided to use an airport car par... july summer 2017 degustabox review about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok