skip to main content css-tricks articles videos almanac snippets newsletter jobs guides back to top contact about archives advertise jobs license subscribe forums guest posting facebook twitter youtube instagram rss search for: search open search open navigation the css-tricks license super important legal document ------------------------------ i don't give two hoots what you do with any of the design or code you find in our articles, videos, and demos here. actually, i do. i hope you take it and use it, uncredited, on a super commercial website and get wicked rich off it. i hope you use it at work and your boss is impressed and you get a big promotion. i hope it helps you design a website and that website impresses somebody you think is super hot and you get married and have smart, chill babies. i hope you use the code in a blog post you write elsewhere and that website gets way more popular and awesome than this one. if you feel like telling me about it, cool. if not, no big deal. if you feel better crediting it, that's cool. if not, don't sweat it. if you copy an entire article from this site and republish it on your own site like you wrote it, that's a little uncool. i won't be mad at you for stealing, i just think you're better than that and want to see you do better. i'm not going to come after you though. i'd rather play ball with my dog. the only time i'll be mad at you is if you go out of your way to try and hurt me somehow. and again i probably won't even be mad, just sad. unless i'm having a bad day too, in which case i apologize in advance for my snarky replies. i want the web to get better and being all johnny protective over everything doesn't get us there. i understand other people feel differently about this and might have semi-legit reasons for protecting certain code, design, writing, or whatever. i work on some closed-source projects myself. css-tricks isn't one of them. go nuts. how do you stay up to date in this fast⁠-⁠moving industry? a good start is to sign up for our weekly hand-written newsletter. we bring you the best articles and ideas from around the web, and what we think about them. email address subscribe facebook @csstricks twitter @css youtube @realcsstricks instagram @real_css_tricks rss feed css-tricks* is created, written by, and maintained by chris coyier and a team of swell people. the tech stack for this site is fairly boring. that's a good thing! i've used wordpress since day one all the way up to v17, a decision i'm very happy with. i also leverage jetpack for extra functionality and local for local development. *may or may not contain any actual "css" or "tricks". other nav contact about guest writing jobs advertise license subscribe all authors codepen codepen is a place to experiment, debug, and show off your html, css, and javascript creations. flywheel logo flywheel css-tricks is hosted by flywheel, the best wordpress hosting in the business, with a local development tool to match. shoptalk is a podcast all about front-end web design and development. css-tricks presents 📅 upcoming front-end conferences css-tricks presents the power of serverless for front-end developers