the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop newswire the tonys have been postponed, which, duh you may also like news finally, good news: the extremely stylish new lupin iii movie will get a u.s. release sam barsantiyesterday 5:45pm news r.i.p. chef floyd cardoz, top chef masters season 3 winner britt hayeswednesday 11:13am news cbs all access releases all of star trek: picard for free through april sam barsantituesday 4:30pm more from g/o media read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba read on what you need to know about your federal government relief check [updated] subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe william hughes wednesday 4:55pm • filed to:aux auxthe tonys 8 save photo: kevin mazur (getty images) leaving hollywood egos to live, at least for the moment, without their precious, prestige-granting t, the tony awards have officially announced that they’re being postponed this year. per playbill, the ceremony—originally slated for june 7—has now been bumped back to an as-yet undetermined date, presumably on account of the entire industry they’re designed to celebrate having abruptly shut down. among the various industries kicked in their collective junk by the coronavirus quarantines, few were as susceptible as live theater, which literally exists in order to bring a bunch of human beings into tight quarters and then get them to weep all their fluids all over each other. (we’re exaggerating, but still—we know how act ii of hamilton can get.) broadway proper shut down earlier this month, and while there are murmurs that theaters might start trying to get up and running again in mid-april, that also seems like a great way to raise the availability of season tickets for whoever survives such a clearly short-sighted decision pretty damn fast. advertisement anyway: no tonys this year, at least for a few months. james corden will just have to find another way to occupy his time, now that this, and his precious carpool, have all been taken from him. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club revisit the 2005 virus that infected world of warcraft the fartman cometh: celebrating the many careers of wario, nintendo’s stinky, cheating genius jem from jem and the holograms knows the best way to be a superstar these days is to stay indoors meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit share tweet