/ jason weisberger / 11:22 am fri mar 27, 2020 the new lego star wars mandalorian battle pack! follow us twitter / facebook / rss the lego mandalorian battle pack comes with 4 mandalorian shock trooper minifigs! the speeder bike is cool, but 4 mando minifigs for this price is a steal. lego star wars mandalorian battle pack 75267 mandalorian shock troopers and speeder bike building kit; great gift idea for any fan of star wars: the mandalorian tv series, new 2020 (102 pieces) via amazon share / tweet / 2 comments #mandalorian / #themandalorian / entertainment / lego / mando / play / star wars / toys get the boing boing newsletter coronavirus: disneyland resort and walt disney world resort 'closed until further notice' on friday, disney announced that disneyland resort and walt disney world resort will remain closed until further notice. read the rest cirque du soleil launches online portal for viewing shows, explores bankruptcy in coronavirus shutdown: reuters cirque du soleil just launched ‘cirqueconnect,’ where you can view shows — it’s especially great for kids stuck indoors during the pandemic shutdown. all of the company’s live shows are canceled due to the coronavirus crisis, and they are exploring financial options that include bankruptcy, reports reuters. las vegas casinos and resorts, including the one […] read the rest boris and the bomb: a fast paced and funny indie flick that is now on amazon prime boris and the bomb was a fantastic way to spend a night not thinking about the coronavirus. boris is my kind of hero. he mostly just wants to be left the fuck alone. boris and the bomb is an absurd action-adventure, directed by david kronmiller and focused on a reluctant former kgb agent who just […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support