home tour customers templates mobile apps pricing logos developers feature index help & support answers workshops specialists about squarespace careers blog press & media environmental impact terms of service privacy policy contact us the official squarespace newsroom blog all company culture product search introducing squarespace scheduling january 30, 2020 welcome to winona january 28, 2020 introducing new commerce tools designed to help your business grow december 09, 2019 expand your business capabilities with squarespace extensions december 04, 2019 squarespace x sesame street november 25, 2019 sell in-person with point of sale in the squarespace commerce app november 07, 2019 introducing unfold, a toolkit for storytellers october 22, 2019 squarespace honors pride 2019 since the stonewall riots in 1969, the lgbtqia+ community and its allies have come together for a celebration of pride, love, diversity and acceptance all over the world. this year, in support of pride and in honor of the 50th anniversary of the riots, squarespace is excited to celebrate the lgbtqia+ community across all three of our office locations with a project called stand proud. june 21, 2019 manage your website on the go with the squarespace app may 01, 2019 squarespace email campaigns is better than ever, and now available on any plan april 24, 2019 acuity scheduling, the online appointment scheduling platform, joins squarespace april 23, 2019 squarespace brings snark park’s immersive experience online april 01, 2019 get more done in less time with squarespace and zapier december 10, 2018 introducing our new brand identity at squarespace, we believe in democratizing good design for the ambitious entrepreneur. december 03, 2018 9 things you can do to increase your online sales this holiday season the holiday season is a crucial time for your business. when it comes to making the sales you want, this is the time of year to optimize your strategies and get results. november 21, 2018 add beautiful new imagery to your website – for free – with unsplash november 16, 2018 introducing subscriptions for squarespace commerce: a new way to sell this holiday season whether your customers are shopping for others—or for themselves—this holiday season, we have the perfect gift solution for them: squarespace subscriptions. november 15, 2018 leaders with social heart: three companies on a mission to better the world at squarespace, we take special pride in customers who are not only working to make their own dreams come true, but are also focused on making the world a better place. that’s why we’re honored to be partnering with professional creative network, the dots, on their latest 10x10 project that celebrates 100 influential leaders who use their creative platforms to make a social impact. september 20, 2018 expand your reach with shopping on instagram august 21, 2018 pride 2018: squarespace x sarah lineberger for the third year in a row, squarespace is excited to celebrate our lgbtq+ community by sponsoring the official pride marches across all three of our office locations and creating a special installation for our new york office. june 22, 2018 january 30, 2020gavin zuchlinski introducing squarespace scheduling in april 2019, we shared the news that acuity scheduling joined squarespace to help our customers offer appointment scheduling and manage their bookings online. today, we’re happy to announce squarespace scheduling, a new product that integrates acuity’s online scheduling tools directly into squarespace’s all-in-one platform. with squarespace scheduling, you can easily manage your appointments directly within the platform, providing one central location to handle scheduling for every aspect of your brand. simply set hours for the services you offer, share your appointments and classes, and allow clients to book their own appointments. the nature of work is changing, and it’s essential to provide our customers with the tools they need to transact beyond selling physical goods. whether you’re a freelance photographer available for photo shoots, a hair salon booking appointments for multiple stylists, or a business offering classes in multiple locations, squarespace scheduling is built to meet your needs. if you are already an active acuity customer, you will not experience any changes to how you currently use the product and should keep using the appointment scheduling block with your acuity account. new squarespace scheduling customers can learn more about the different plans available and start booking appointments now.