home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the universe in verse: cosmologist and saxophonist stephon alexander reads “explaining relativity” by astronomer and poet rebecca elson figures of thought: krista tippett reads howard nemerov’s mathematical-existential poem about the interconnectedness of the universe in transit: neil gaiman reads his touching tribute to the lonely genius arthur eddington, who confirmed einstein’s relativity labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the universe in verse: regina spektor reads “theories of everything” by astronomer, poet, and tragic genius rebecca elson lyrical reflections at the crossroads of truth and meaning. by maria popova in her haunting ode to the hubble space telescope, adrienne rich serenaded “the ex-stasis of galaxies / so out from us there’s no vocabulary / but mathematics and optics / equations letting sight pierce through time / into liberations, lacerations of light and dust.” it is a peculiar meta-miracle, to fuse these complementary modes of sensemaking — mathematics, the language of truth, and poetry, the language of meaning — into something that enlarges both, expanding the horizons of beauty and understanding in the mind beholding the fusion. this miracle is what the universe in verse celebrates, and no person embodies it more exquisitely than the canadian astronomer and poet rebecca elson (january 2, 1960–may 19, 1999), who belonged to that rare species of genius with extraordinary talent in not just one but two, and thoroughly different, domains of creative endeavor. the daughter of a geologist, elson grew up as a keen observer of the natural world, spending large swaths of her childhood exploring the shores of a prehistoric lake. by the age of six, she could distinguish sandstone pebbles from limestone pebbles. by nine, she had grown besotted with the dazzling nocturnal skies of northern canada, with the way they emanated the infinite question of what it means for the universe to be infinite, beguiled by the cosmic wonders filling that infinity. by sixteen, she was in university, falling further in love with astronomy. her first glimpse of andromeda, our sister galaxy, dazed her with its “delicate wisp of milky spiral light floating in what seemed a bottomless well of empty space.” the spiral galaxy ngc 7331, located in the constellation pegasus about 45 million light-years from earth, discovered by william herschel in 1784. (nasa/esa hubble space telescope) at twenty-six, having completed her ph.d. at cambridge — newton’s hallowed ground — elson received a postdoctoral research fellowship at princeton’s institute for advanced study — einstein’s hallowed ground — to work with the first data from the hubble, which was about to launch later that year. but when the space shuttle challenger exploded before the grief-stricken eyes of the world, the horizons of space exploration darkened, the launch of the hubble was delayed, and elson’s research assignment vanished. trapped in princeton’s unwelcoming atmosphere of systemic sexism, without support and without a riveting project at hand, she found herself withdrawing as a researcher. one thing solaced and perhaps even saved elson as her astronomical career took this dispiriting dip — the lively tuesday evening gatherings of poets, whose company and camaraderie she found to be “far more expansive and congenial” than the stranglehold of the scientific patriarchy. verse opened up new frontiers of inquiry and observation — not of the universe without, but of the universe within. she came to cherish it and practice it with the same passion she had brought to astronomy. in her twenty-ninth year, just as she began teaching creative writing at radcliffe-harvard during a fellowship there and became the youngest astronomer to serve on a decennial review committee in the history of the u.s. national academy of sciences, elson was diagnosed with non-hodgkins lymphoma — a blood cancer that most commonly afflicts people in their sixties and seventies. she transmuted the brutality of the treatment into raw material for poetry — “not outer space, just space / the light of all the not yet stars,” she writes in “antidotes to fear of death” — and continued pursuing her first and greatest scientific love: galaxy formation and the study of how stars are born, live, and die. upon returning to cambridge in her early thirties, with her illness in remission, elson and her team used the deepest image of space the hubble had ever taken to determine the limits of how much regular stars contribute to the mysterious halo of dark matter enveloping the milky way — a major contribution to our understanding of the universe and a bittersweet metaphor for elson’s life and body of work, hovering in that liminal space between limit and possibility, darkness and light. rebecca elson, 1987 elson returned her stardust to the universe at only thirty-nine, leaving behind 56 scientific papers, a slender, sublimely beautiful book of poetry titled a responsibility to awe (public library), and the devastating question of what else a person of such uncommon genius would have given the world had chance granted her a longer life. at the third annual universe in verse, i invited regina spektor, one of the most intensely poetic songwriters of our time, to honor elson’s singular, tragic, transcendent genius with a lovely reading of her poem “theories of everything” — a meditation on our eternal struggle to discern the unfeeling laws of the universe, over which we have no control and by which we must abide, and to project ourselves onto them, creating cosmoses of beauty and meaning within their indifferent parameters, all the while ourselves remaining mere projections of these very laws. theories of everything (when the lecturer’s shirt matches the painting on the wall) he stands there speaking without love of theories where, in the democracy of this universe, or that, there could be legislators who ordain trajectories for falling bodies, where all things must be dreamed with indifference, and purpose is a momentary silhouette backlit by a blue anthropic flash, a storm on the horizon. but even the painting on the wall behind, itself an accident of shattered symmetries, is only half eclipsed by his transparencies of hierarchy and order, and the history of thought. and what he cannot see is this: himself projected next to his projections where the colours from the painting have spilled onto his shirt, their motion stilled into a rigorous design of lines and light. a responsibility to awe is a breathtaking read in its slim totality. for other highlights from the universe in verse, savor astrophysicist janna levin reading maya angelou’s cosmic clarion call to humanity, amanda palmer reading neil gaiman’s tribute to rachel carson, poet marie howe reading her stirring homage to stephen hawking, u.s. poet laureate tracy k. smith reading her ode to the hubble space telescope, and rosanne cash reading adrienne rich’s tribute to marie curie, then revisit regina spektor reading “the everyday enchantment of music” by mark strand — one of the most beautiful things ever written about the power of music. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published april 29, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/04/29/regina-spektor-reads-rebecca-elson/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturepoetryrebecca elsonregina spektorsciencethe universe in versewomen view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.