the friendly necromancer mmo and gaming blog from tom purdue. it's origins began in a journey through wizard101 and grew to be much much more. wednesday, march 25, 2020 raid shadow legends: it gave me the bird the game everybody loves to hate is raid shadow legends. i ain't kidding. i watched a 13 minute long rant video on youtube (which i won't link here due to language) that destroyed not only raid shadow legends, but the players who play it, and the advertising companies who continually hound him about being sponsored by raid shadow legends. oof. brutal. raid itself has inspired an entire truckload of memes simply based on its aggressive youtube advertising and sponsorship. fyi, this post isn't sponsored by raid shadow legends beyond that, the reviews have been scathing: "absolute hot mitigated garbage." or how about this one where it proclaims raid shadow legends is "the epitome of pay to win." so . . . now that we know all that . . . right? *deep breath* can we just appreciate the fact that sensortower estimated the game most likely generated 7 million dollars in profit in february 2020 alone? despite all of the hate and all of the warnings and all of the memes, mobile gamers are in fact playing it and paying for it; they're thoroughly enjoying their hot mitigated garbage and happily paying to win. none of the vocalized hate can stop the money making machine that is raid shadow legends from trying to get "you" to play, and i guess that does naturally feel invasive and like you're falling into a viral trap, but isn't that just marketing fallout from a game that generates much more money than it costs to make and advertise? i didn't let the furor stop me from downloading it. speaking of marketing furor, let's see what's behind door number one: anyway, a few work friends who enjoy mobile games are playing raid, and yup, i'm one of 'em. for me, however, the game is now headed to the downward side of my attention span. i have four level 60 heroes, completed the battle pass, completed the campaign map into brutal mode, and claimed all of the amazon prime rewards. i can now put a pretty sizable dent in the clan boss (for a new player at least), and i'm sitting in the gold ranks for pvp. i'm good now. i've played it pretty deep. i'd say my raid apex point was reached one day when i pulled yet another "trash rare" out of a shard. mind you, i've never won a legendary from this game that i didn't buy and then earn in the battle pass (and tbh that legendary isn't that great). every time you bust open a summoning shard hoping for the cooler edges of the gacha to happen, there's this feeling of . . . come on, come on, commmme onnnnnn . . . bam! ugh! no! hello there, c rank rare . . . but let me tell you it was also that exact moment when i discovered hal . . . my trash rare hero! now typically you're going to take a character like this and simply use it for food as you level up another character with more potential or maybe use it for a very specific case. but i looked at halberdier . . . and his helmet suddenly appeared more like something else thanks to a couple of well-placed ventilation holes in his helmet: hello there, halbirdier!! . . . and i fell in love. at that point i had found everything i ever really want in a game: dumb meme material. i mean, screw trying to get legendaries and s-rank heroes, halbirdier is here to save the day! "see" what i did there? now when my raid buddies were talking about min maxing and how to get the most bang for your buck with artifact efficiency, i would simply interject with a new statement from hal. hal has to eat too you know! he was right there to chime in when plarium gave us all 2000 energy to combat the coronavirus quarantined blues. it really was awesome to get all that free energy. hal was even there to chime in on things like love, happiness, and death at the start of every day. did hal sound a bit ironic quoting dr. seuss like that? so here's the moral of the story, kids, when life hands you c-rank rares in raid shadow legends, make bird-onade. whether you want to banish raid down to the depths of the deepest hell, actually enjoy playing it, or simply admire the revenue it makes . . . hal will be there for you to understand your uniqueness. some birds are not meant to be caged. happy dueling posted by stingite at 4:11 pm no comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: mobile games friday, march 20, 2020 finding the zen in overwatch i haven't talked much about it here on my blog, but i'm still playing overwatch every wednesday night with my coworkers. i first mentioned our group back in august 2019, but i'm pretty sure we've been at this for over a year now. (ki krushers never stuck as a team name *frown*) for most of our group, the wednesday night game has become our only time spent in overwatch for the entire week. because of this, our cr ratings have suffered or floundered a bit. i feel like you can't really really get good at this game unless you have a knack for being nimble-fingered, watch a ton of training videos, or play until the game just flows through your veins. i kind of feel like we're not alone here though. i'm sure they're more of us dirty casuals than there are overwatch adonis dopplegangers. that all said, man, we had some solid placement matches this week! things have really evolved in overwatch over the past year: new heroes, hero balancing, role locking, and now hero rotation (being the most recent change) to name a few. hero rotation can be really impactful, or not at all, depending on which character you typically play in game. now every thursday in competitive play, four or five characters get put out of play and are unable to be used. last week that took away several of the characters our team typically plays, and it had me doing something i typically don't do . . . playing zenyatta. throwing a fastball or two at orisa! talk to the hand! i have the "fastball" skin on zenyatta that turns him from looking like a robot monk into a robot shortstop, and it felt amazing to break him out for some reason. in fact, he was pretty much all i played for our comp games on wednesday! i was putting orb of discord on people and calling it out in our discord channel like it was made for that purpose. boom! and for the most part it worked really well. put discord on someone and they really start taking damage or flee until it goes away. after our matches i went back into the game to use another newer feature in overwatch that i love -- replays. i imagine most people use replays to watch their game play over so they can improve or really digest what happened in a match. me? i'm looking for screenshot moments! :) here's a few i snapped from our first game of the evening: velo looking as fierce as a hamster can. i fear the day that velo can't play on his hammond character. he really knows how to disrupt the enemy team . . . especially if there isn't a mei on the other side. ;) are you really not going to shield against kajind's hanzo? in our first match of the night, we believed we had a reinhardt player who was trying out sigma for the first time. it was pretty bad. he was consistently out of position without a shield, and boy did we take advantage of that. show 'em who's the better sigma, snarky! sigma's bare feet were a perfect target for my fastballs turns out. ;) some people go for headshots, not me! footshots ftw. figuring out when to drop zen's ultimate is all about the timing. transcendence makes me invulnerable, and everyone around me gets a ton of healing. typically you wouldn't want to use it for trying to save your team from rip tire, but i was nice and cozy here when i was obviously his first intended target. the blast has a radius, so you can typically save a few people, but at the epicenter of riptire is a 600 damage bomb, and no amount of healing will make you safe. the people on the fringes of the explosion will be good though. he circled me a few times with the tire hoping trans would end early. fastball coming in! it became kind of comical how out of position this guy was. this last screenshot i have for you today was of the enemy symmetra. i just loved how tech noir this shot looked. i mean, two seconds later she died a horrible death to hammond and pharah, but thanks to the replay feature, i got a shot i wouldn't mind using as a desktop background. ;) as a bonus she's wearing the new holi skin! i may have played a lot of zen in the games on wednesday, but i really found the "zen" by going through the replays after the matches. the ability to zoom around and pan to epic moments in replays is probably the coolest thing about overwatch for me. i wish replays like this were more a standard feature in all games . . . as impossible a request as that might be. happy dueling! posted by stingite at 6:20 am 2 comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: overwatch sunday, march 15, 2020 gw2: it's such a pretty (confounding) game about a week ago i was talking with a few of my old friends from team spode. we have our own discord channel, and i drop by to say hello once in a while to see how their adventures in dcuo and otherwise have been going. it was there that i started chatting with my old gaming pal, ellie aka clever clara, who has been thoroughly enjoying the world vs. world pvp in gw2 for several years now. lord spode of team spode also mentioned that he still drops in daily to collect his rewards in gw2 . . . and he's been doing this for 3 or 4 years. he logs in, he grabs his stuff, he logs off. amazing, the dedication on that one. the heart of thorns beckons you deeper into this tangled web of a blogpost. this got me to thinking about my necromancer in guild wars 2, so i loaded up the game and logged in. it immediately struck me all over again just how pretty this game is . . . especially after playing the visual mess known as project gorgon for so long. here it's as if i'm constantly running and jumping through a concept artist's portfolio, leaping from one page to the next. it's such a pretty game. the level of detail in lion's arch is staggering. it was also then that i remembered i haven't picked up the heart of thorns or path of fire expansions, and lo and behold a third expansion is now in development! that's a perfect storm: friends still playing, tons of content i haven't explored, a visual feast after a season of starving, and promises of a bright future. sold! so after picking up the hot/pof expansion bundle, i jumped into the new content only to remember . . . oh crap, combat in this game is lengthy, i don't remember anything, and there's a bunch of "things" now like wings and mounts. oh man, what have i done? in fact, i spent a few days just logging on, playing 15-20 minutes, and logging back off in frustration thinking perhaps i made a mistake . . . until last night. i'm in blue and that's my crew! clara gathered the troops yesterday, and soon i was playing gw2 with my old podcasting friends of ravenwood radio and spiral radio fame. yup, steve, icy, and john . . . all in one group! i can't even explain what a relief it was to get on a discord call and have john talk us through the ui, new features, and the world event in the verdant brink. a little handholding and laughs between old friends goes a long way to establishing some hope. we played around for a couple hours and broke the group for dinner, but i logged on later and did just a bit more of my story quest, just enough to take on this wicked vine beast. scary vine wyrm thingys are scary! so there you have it . . . i'm back in gw2 for a bit to explore new content, hang with some old friends, and learn new tidbits of information: things like, friendly necromancers can now wield giant two-handed swords! looks like it's the season of the reaper for me in guild wars 2. yup, that's about the size of it. happy dueling! posted by stingite at 5:42 am 2 comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: guild wars 2 sunday, march 8, 2020 dungeon keeper mobile: it wasn't made for you i'm continuing to look for good dungeon making games and decided to give the mobile version of dungeon keeper a download. what's interesting here is that back in 2014, this game was raked over the coals by fans and media who weren't ready for a free-to-play mobile version of the games they had grown to love: dungeon keeper 1 and dungeon keeper 2. games, which to be honest, i've never even played. (um, yeah, i uh, wanted to play them, but i was too busy with other games to give them a shot at the time. *grin*) because of this, i did a lot of reading when i downloaded the game, and i found some really good quotes . . . gems of thought about the release as it were. is your pocketbook ready to train all these monsters? to illustrate what i'm talking about, let me quote ign's review of the game: "the original dungeon keeper thrives on speed and the frantic rush to build your dungeons and set up traps before heroes arrive; under this model, clicking on the campaign maps that unleash the adventurers to face their doom feels more like a pulling the string on a wind-up toy and watching it until it slows down and dies all too quickly. attempt to play dungeon keeper at the pace of the 1997 version, and you'd find that your bank account drains faster than your dungeon's gold hoards after heroes reach them. having any fun in this game would cost a fortune. " probably the harshest of reviews came from eurogamer which gave the game and appalling 1 out of 10. it was so harsh that andrew wilson, ceo of electronic arts, sat down for an interview with eurogamer at e3. it's an amazing read to be honest . . . especially for someone in the business of making mobile games.. i especially like this particular paragraph: who is to blame for that? don't blame the developers, molyneux pleaded. they're just doing their job. instead, point the finger at "analytics people" who impose tried and trusted monetisation techniques on the gameplay, forcing players to do this and that at this time and then in order to get x and y number of gems. it's a carefully crafted, heavily researched dark art that players of many free mobile games are familiar with. indeed, for millions of gamers this kind of monetisation is all they know. this was even further discussed in a kotaku article that juxtaposed fans of a long standing pc title that had been converted into a free-to-play mobile game. the title of the article itself is amazing: "welcome to mobile gaming, angry dungeon keeper fans" lol! the article explains mobile gamers to pc gamers and why this game in particular caused things to come to a head: "these mobile gamers play for distraction instead of passion. they are passing the time. they aren't as emotionally invested in what they are playing, so when a meter or timer pops up, it doesn't affect them as strongly. they have no experience paying $60 to play a game — to them, microtransactions are the way these things are done. they're unwise to the ways of the greater gaming world, and they won't be wising up anytime soon. when they pick up their phone or tablet with gaming in mind, they're going to play. they aren't going to surf the web for forums. they aren't looking for a gaming site to see what new mobile games are on the horizon. they're in their own mobile gaming bubble. games pop up on their screens. if they look interesting, they will play them. if the game's got the right addictive formula, they'll pay to play. they're odd. they're casuals. they're also legion. " the article comes to a brilliant one-line realization within its apex: "the real problem with ea's new dungeon keeper — it wasn't made for us" it's funny . . . i see harsh reviews of mobile games by pc players and that line just resonates in my mind "it wasn't made for you." with all that in mind . . . the dungeon keeper i played over last week wasn't a terrible mobile game to be honest, and there was a lot i liked. it kind of seems like ea might have even backed away from the harsher monetization timers that were originally in the game. clicking on a wall of dirt to remove it didn't take an hour . . . it took 3 seconds. i was quite easily able to craft a couple of nice long walkways that would keep my opponents wandering around while the timer ticked away. welcome to my dungeon! muhahaha! i loaded it full of doors and traps and spent the week leveling up my traps and storage bins. yes, things could have gone a lot faster if i was paying, but i was taking it like i take most of my mobile games: casually and afk. there really is no rush here at all to be honest. you build a bit, click to collect your gold and stone, raid a couple other people's dungeons, and log off while your timers are ticking. and honestly, i'm not trying to be the biggest or the baddest in this game, but i must say i loved watching a couple replays where people couldn't 3-star my dungeon. muhahahaha! i'm sure i haven't "seen nothing yet" as this game has been around so long that the people at the top of the game who have been playing since 2014 must certainly have crazy impenetrable fortresses. i shudder to think of my skeletons and trolls trying to make it through more difficult player-crafted dungeons. all in all, this was a nice casual dungeon making distraction from last week. probably my favorite "feature" was that you were forced to slap an imp to even load into the game. slap that grin off his face! if anything, this experience made me more excited to download the old dungeon keeper games and play through them. since you can find 'em online now for pretty cheap, they're now on my list of things to play. happy dueling! posted by stingite at 10:56 am no comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: evil dungeons of evilness, mobile games sunday, march 1, 2020 legend of keepers: who's the dungeon master now? recently i've been craving a good dungeon-maker game. my first thoughts turned to old hits like dungeon keeper and the now defunct dungeon empires (too bad it's no longer around, i really liked that game), but in hunting for those games, i stumbled upon a little steam game called legend of keepers. this particular demo or "prologue" is of a game in development and was pretty fun! it feels like you should be fighting voltron, doesn't it? i call false advertisement! in essence, you've been hired to engineer dungeon room encounters to keep adventurers at bay. it plays a bit like the card game boss monster without the complexity. play inside your dungeon goes a bit like this: you place monsters in your dungeon. you place traps in your dungeon. adventurers proceed through your dungeon. trap rooms activate and do damage or reduce morale of adventurers. monster combat is turn-based and you play back and forth until the adventurers die (or run away in fear) or your monsters die. if the adventurers make it to the final room, they fight the boss of the dungeon and do damage. choose from 3 random rewards and complete the week. i really liked the ulazra's quagmire ability. think of your boss at the end of the dungeon as a tower in a tower defense game. if he takes damage from one group of adventurers, he'll still have the damage applied to him when the next group of adventurers attack him in the coming weeks. your boss is pretty tough, but can he make it through to the end? no problem! ultimately you'll be playing through 52 weeks of the dungeon's life cycle. in a way, the progression feels a little like another game i've talked about, slay the spire, but without the mystery and unknown of a branching path and definitely in reverse . . . you're the villain of the story here. after combat, you'll have a few weeks of random encounters, merchants, and monster therapist visits before the next group of adventurer's enters your dungeon. it's tough work . . . your monsters are gonna need some quality time to get through it. you use these "off weeks" as time to heal monsters, resurrect them from the dead, improve your traps, and buy new nefarious surprises for your dungeon. the circular saw trap is also one of my favorites. bzzzzzt! die adventurers! there can be a bit of strategy here. for instance, you can get an artifact that improves skeleton statistics and focus on skeletons in one room, which could lead to extra bonuses depending on your monster passive abilities. if you enjoy the thought of making your own dungeon, this is definitely worth the free download, but if you really enjoy the game you can go one step further and get the "supporter's edition" of the game for 5 bucks and unlock a new dungeon boss and dungeon theme. i'll be looking forward to a full release of the game in the future. consider yourself added to my watchlist, legend of keepers! gg! happy dueling posted by stingite at 4:39 pm no comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: evil dungeons of evilness, legend of keepers, other games friday, february 28, 2020 playing lost and found in rift i did it! i found my old level 42 cleric in rift! he was buried away in a "trial" server with about 10 other characters. i just needed to shift my "shard" at the selection screen and track him down. once i did that and renamed him, it was as simple as shifting him over to a playable shard. i loaded him up, logged in and found myself in the beautiful wintry world of iron pine peak. looking at the map also told me i was over-leveled to be in this location, so all was well . . . i could mostly wander around and not have to worry too much about getting into a scrap i couldn't handle. i even killed a cat while not knowing my skill points were all reset. iron pine peak . . . that's a pretty decent sized chunk of land to explore! then pressing b for bags revealed something terrifying . . . a 9 year old stash of goods where i had no idea what was what. if you're an old time gamer that loves to revisit mmos, i'm sure you've felt the same panic and fear. what in the world is going on here? oh no . . . buff scrolls?!?! crafting supplies?!?! help! what in the world are these full bags and mishmash-ed skill bars? i'm terrified! my ability bars were a tragic mess and come to find out i needed to completely respec my character. it was an absolutely terrifying 10 minutes that resulted in me finding a lot of lost and forgotten items. i imagine it's like someone renting a storage shed, leaving the country, and coming back nine years to find a pile of strange microwaves and coffee pots they had completely forgotten about. my favorite "lost coffee pot" that i found was a cosmetic pet i had named "lil' wally" since i bought a card that came with him at walmart. i think it's a frog? yes, you're alone, but you've got a frog and a pixie, so things can't really be that bad can they? i ended up choosing an "easy" build with a healer pet and we spent some quality time killing mobs and completing quests in my immediate vicinity . . . things like winter wolves, mountain cats, evil cultists, fire elementals, and six-legged basilisks. it was a good couple hours of fun last night re-experiencing this old world. it seems an unlikely place to find a fire elemental, but what the hey. and i must say . . . my dude could totally be in a fantasy k-pop band with his purple faux-hawk and perfectly pixie-like features. look at this hotness! go ahead . . . swipe right. i also spent some time just "looking around" at things, like this swirling air rift (at least i think it's an air rift?) in the cold mountain tops. giant swirling chunks of rock with uber looking griffons prowling around. wow! just super visually stunning . . . especially since i bumped my graphics up from low to ultra. i could have never experienced this game in all its splendor on my old rig, that's for sure. really this should be video footage to show how amazing this swirling meteor field looked. i'd say i still need to experiment with all my skills a bit before i can say this character is fully ready to rock in a level appropriate zone, but i had fun wandering around here and rediscovering things like my mechanical horse mount and lil' wally. i think i at least have another couple play sessions in me for rift. no pressure, just a big world to explore and more lost things to find. sounds like fun, right? happy dueling posted by stingite at 7:10 am no comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: rift thursday, february 27, 2020 was there a rift between us? the other day i decided to download and check out a "now" older mmo, good ol' rift. you remember rift, right? look, a rift that's undulating like a giant octopus in the sky! sure you do! so did i! i was there during "beta 5" for rift and it was full of people, and twitter was annoyingly barking out screenshots for every achievement you made. it was crazy, and it seemed like anyone who was anyone was out there playing rift. i even made a special blog i was going to devote to rift that . . . never really took off. oh well. let's just forget i mentioned that. 2011 was a crazy time when mmos were still all the hotness and the term "wow-killer" was a thing. every new mmo that came out was going to be the next wow-killer and promised to be full of fun and interesting people . . . and they were! they just didn't kill wow. that time really felt like the peak of mmo production to me. what did we get out of that time frame? swtor! gw2! aoc! lotro! eso! and so many more cool acronyms! i'm not sure what happened to my old (level 40? level 50?) character, but it's probably hiding on either a different account or a different shard. either way, kicking up a new character and running through the old intro zone was almost exactly as i remembered it, but with a few differences. gotta love this first rift boss battle in the rift tutorial the first big difference of course was that the game didn't have as many new players like me running around in the tutorial area. that's to be expected. rift is a nine-year-old game at this point and from the looks of their community landing page, all that's being talked about are the new mounts and things in the shop. i'm just happy to see the game servers are still running and i can log on and play for free. the second thing i noticed was that it all seemed a bit easier than it was when i was playing back in 2011. agro radius was smaller, and things didn't feel like they presented as big of a challenge as they did back at the day. that's also to be expected. when something is too punishing too quickly, people just tend to check out of the game and say #sorrynotsorry #imaudihere. the third thing that had changed was me . . . great, i feel old now. thanks a lot, rift! but, seriously, i've changed a lot as a person and as a game-consumer, but that said . . . the actors were all standing in the right spots and i was there playing the hero of the game, mr. ascended himself. i remember chain whip guy and in my memories, he's a lot scarier than this with more adds. it was good to log in and at least look at the starting area of rift again. i'm not sure if i'll keep poking around or not, but it's good to see this is still alive and kicking. here's to you, rift! here's to you. happy dueling posted by stingite at 8:32 am 4 comments: email thisblogthis!share to twittershare to facebookshare to pinterest labels: rift older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) have a question? name email * message * have i talked about it before? keep up with the convo! blog archive ▼ 2020 (16) ▼ march (5) raid shadow legends: it gave me the bird finding the zen in overwatch gw2: it's such a pretty (confounding) game dungeon keeper mobile: it wasn't made for you legend of keepers: who's the dungeon master now? ► february (4) ► january (7) ► 2019 (63) ► december (7) ► november (4) ► october (6) ► september (5) ► august (31) ► july (3) ► june (2) ► may (1) ► march (1) ► february (3) ► 2018 (40) ► november (3) ► october (3) ► september (19) ► august (15) ► 2017 (8) ► july (4) ► march (4) ► 2016 (17) ► august (2) ► july (2) ► june (8) ► april (1) ► march (1) ► february (2) ► january (1) ► 2015 (54) ► december (3) ► november (1) ► october (1) ► september (4) ► august (31) ► july (4) ► may (1) ► april (1) ► march (2) ► february (4) ► january (2) ► 2014 (59) ► december (1) ► november (3) ► october (1) ► september (1) ► august (2) ► july (3) ► june (18) ► april (1) ► march (3) ► january (26) ► 2013 (64) ► december (18) ► november (2) ► october (14) ► august (4) ► july (1) ► june (4) ► may (2) ► april (3) ► march (3) ► february (3) ► january (10) ► 2012 (124) ► december (10) ► november (2) ► october (6) ► september (5) ► august (5) ► july (8) ► june (6) ► may (8) ► april (22) ► march (16) ► february (18) ► january (18) ► 2011 (212) ► december (28) ► november (18) ► october (13) ► september (18) ► august (17) ► july (5) ► june (10) ► may (9) ► april (9) ► march (25) ► february (30) ► january (30) ► 2010 (490) ► december (31) ► november (29) ► october (35) ► september (30) ► august (26) ► july (51) ► june (52) ► may (44) ► april (51) ► march (46) ► february (43) ► january (52) ► 2009 (612) ► december (49) ► november (50) ► october (48) ► september (55) ► august (57) ► july (76) ► june (71) ► may (59) ► april (47) ► march (46) ► february (18) ► january (36) ► 2008 (64) ► december (18) ► november (11) ► october (21) ► september (14) join the club! want to be a part of the blogger's club? then click here and leave me a message! friendly's mmo bloggers club frostcaller wizard101's spring 2020 update teasers 5 hours ago around the spiral with edward lifegem be positive! 4 days ago swordroll's blog wizard101 zafaria hoard pack review 1 week ago stars of the spiral 1 week ago tish tosh tesh elegoo mars lcd troubleshooting 2 months ago the dragonspyre pirate pirate101 in 2020 2 months ago paige's page tenth annual best little dorm in wizard city-- winners 8 months ago careful with that fire! thoughts on the ice deckathalon, now that i've done it 10 months ago bluetail's tales the future of bluetail's tales 2019 1 year ago secrets of the spiral stream renaming contest winners 1 year ago tales of the spiral the party completed 1 year ago sonja marcus apples and honey: a jew-ish new year's testimony 1 year ago valerian's school for wayward wizards 10 years of magic 1 year ago james lifemancer's blog i'm still here! 1 year ago soultamer gaming d&d: the three-foot-tall dragonborn 2 years ago wizard101 central - blogs the untold spiral friendly's vip links yaffy interview lish mcbride interview todd rogers interview jason durall interview terry dietz interview kiersten samwell interview cheyenne darkwhisper interview super death wizard interview nelson everhart (composer for w101) nelson everhart's studio handy wizard101 links wizard101 main site wizard101 central wizard101 central wiki pirate101 main site pirate101 fansites kingsisle's blog mercenaries for hire petnome ravenwood radio wizard101 on facebook beyond the spiral facebook page legends of the spiral wizard101 on warcry skillpoint planner wizard101 news wizard101 videos on youtube kingsisle free kid games rss feed twitter feed twitter updates follow me on twitter about me who is this friendly necromancer? view my complete profile total pageviews labels #oneweekdailyblogging about me adventures in team spode adventures in wandering alphacat amber deathsong ambrose angus animal cove announcements answers to google searches april is for fools aquila (w101) ask friendly a question avalon awesome things azteca bad pedro pace beckett big hits blaughust blaugust blaugust 2019 board games bundles c call for spell of the week card packs cartography celestia charity check this out cheyenne darkwhisper classic gaming commercials community manager cons crab alley crafting crown shop d&d dcuo ddo diablo diapermancer discussion point dj friendly necromancer dreams empyrea epic mickey everclicker everquest evil dungeons of evilness evil twin chat cartoons famous peeps fan fiction fan-juju favorite things final fantasy 13 fire emblem fishing flintstone foreign w101 fred trollfinder free realms friendly norris friendly thomas friendly's tcg fun with bugs gardening gdco gems of war grizzleheim guest writers guild wars 2 hearthstone holidays house item of the day i've got the twitters ideas interviews iridian legend isiah taleslinger jason durall jason durall interview khrysalis kiersten samwell interview kilive kyle skystaff lbp life at kingsisle lish mcbride interview lore lotro magic the gathering match-3 miitomo minecraft mistakes are painful moba mobile games moira drake molly earthsong money monstrology mounts mr. personality myrna lionblood mytheon nautical nelson everhart interview neverwinter new jams other bloggers other games other wizard101 bloggers overwatch paladins partayz pet of the day petnome pets pirate101 player housing podcast poland polaris privateer professor greyrose project gorgon pvp raffle random newbie adventures random screenshots ravenwood radio real life regeant locations rift rise and destroy roblox rolled & told rowan ravenshard rumor shso sly kai smarmy spell of the week steam stingite sunday night game super death wizard swtor terry dietz collection terry dietz interview test realm the art of the rant the evil twin the good work of wikia the wife plays wizard101 thomas lionblood throwback thursday todd rogers trading cards turtles twitch unicorns unplugged gaming video journal videos wands wildstar wintertusk witchdoctor wizard101 wizard101 central wow wysteria youtube zafaria awesome inc. theme. powered by blogger.