skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments if you’re managing a blog, you’ll be aware how difficult it is to post fresh content regularly. relevant and valuable content is necessary for a blog to have good readership. sometimes, when you want to ease up on writing fresh articles, you can resort to autoblogging. if you have an aggregator website, you can completely automate content creation and publishing. wordpress autoblogging plugins can help you to find quality content for your site on complete autopilot. they are helpful tools to create a niche website, where a user can find articles from multiple sites relating to the same niche at one place. an autoblog is any website that automatically pulls content from other sources using rss or other feeds and publishes them. there’s also a negative connotation to the word as many content scrapers and spam blogs use this method. however, it’s also possible to use autoblogging to create genuine blogs that are profitable, such as a curated website that collects information on specific subjects and presents it in an easy-to-read manner. an autoblog is ideal as an intranet for any organization or as a private blog. creating fresh content on a regular basis is difficult work requiring time, effort, and research. autoblogging plugins can help find fresh content to present readers with something new to read every day. however, you should take care that you’re not infringing any copyrights, especially if you’re using it for a publicly available blog. as always, we’ll take a look at both free and premium autoblogging plugins. free plugins wp rss aggregator wp rss aggregator is a popular and easy-to-use rss feed aggregator plugin for wordpress. with the plugin active on your blog, you can aggregate as many feeds as you want from multiple sources. not only that; you can also stagger the feeds to optimize performance. without knowing the exact url of a source, you can find content using auto discovery. using a shortcode, you can then display the feed anywhere on your site. the feed items can be displayed using the display function of your theme. you can adjust the settings to import feed items with specific titles and set the limits on the number and age of items, as well as the update interval on a per source basis. when it comes to display, you can choose to link back to the original posts, select the way in which the links open—new window, popup, and lightbox, and opt to hide the date and author of each post. the plugin enables users to open youtube, dailymotion, and vimeo videos directly, and you can even blacklist select feeds. moreover, the plugin is multilingual-ready. in addition, a number of premium add-ons let you do things like display job listings and import youtube videos. the plugin is a good fit if you’ll be working with multiple feeds as it allows you to manage each feed individually. more info / download rssimport rssimport is a lightweight and straightforward wordpress plugin that uses standard wordpress functionality to help display feeds on your blog. after installing the plugin, you need to use a shortcode, a widget, or a php function to make it work. it helps to keep your blog active all the time by pulling in feeds and displaying them on your blog. the plugin allows you to customize using shortcodes, and the many parameters in the shortcodes make the plugin quite flexible. to parse feeds, you’ll need to make a simple adjustment to enable the built-in simplepie library. more info / purchase wpematico wpematico is an easy-to-use autoblogging plugin that helps automatically create posts from rss or atom feeds. the user interface is similar to that of the wordpress post editor, so you can mange your feeds in a familiar environment. you can use categories to manage your feeds. the plugin uses native wordpress functions to process images and supports multiple categories, tags, and feeds. the auto discovery feature allows you to add feeds even without knowing the exact url. moreover, you can publish in any public wordpress custom post type, status, and format. any image from among the first three images in the post can double as the featured image. you can also choose to upload only the featured image and ignore the others. images and other media files can be uploaded as attachments to posts, and you can upload remote images or simply link to the source. it supports the rewriting of phrases and is multilingual-ready. a professional add-on includes features to parse and filter feed items, filters for featured and other images, automatic tag generation, insertion of custom fields with every post, and much more. more info / download feedzy rss feeds lite whoever out there is looking to create an excellent rss feed for their website, feedzy rss feeds lite is one of the plugins to consider. you can benefit from its outstanding rss aggregator and autoblogging functionality and form an experience like none out there. with this wordpress autoblogging plugin, you can fetch the best content from all around the web and create a feed so dope no one will be able to resist it. of course, there is also the pro version of the plugin available which brings to the table even more goodies. not only is feedzy rss feeds lite quick to install and simple to use, but the outcome also looks appealing to the eye. the feed will be fully responsive and cross-browser compatible, working on all devices and platforms like a dream. more info / download wp content pilot instead of you creating all the content for your website, you can let wp content pilot do the hard work for you. this wordpress autoblogging plugin runs on auto-pilot, publishing fresh and compelling content to your blogs 24/7. once you set things up, you can forget about it and keep wp content pilot delivering the material that will engage your visitors. quick hint, you can also use the tool for affiliate marketing. in just a few short steps, you can have wp content pilot live and running full-tilt. first, you install and activate it. second, you set the desired keyword and feed links which wp content pilot will use to fetch content. third, pick from campaign types, like feed, article, envato, flickr and youtube. four, set up frequency and target. and fifth, wp content pilot goes on the hunt for the articles and even attaches your affiliate id to them. more info / download auto post scheduler auto post scheduler is a wordpress autoblogging plugin with a twist. to be frank with you, auto post scheduler is a post scheduler which works with both new and old content. that said, you can keep your blog looking fresh all the time even if you have not published a fresh article in a while. so far, you were probably setting up post schedule manually. well, from now on, you can set it up in advance and forget about it. auto post scheduler works fantastically well especially when it comes to importing loads of different content. you can start publishing posts with auto post scheduler at any frequency you choose. after you go through the settings, which just happen to be very beginner-friendly, you can start seeing auto post scheduler do its work immediately after. more info / download accesspress anonymous post accesspress anonymous post is something slightly different compared to all the wordpress autoblogging plugins you find on this list. instead of you setting up rules and letting the machines do the work, it’s other folks who are interested in publishing articles on your page that make it happen. for instance, accesspress anonymous post is a fantastic tool that lets guest bloggers create articles on the front-end. hence the name, they could be members of your blog or even those who are not logged in, anyone can create a post for your page. besides, they can even attach a featured image. when it comes to accesspress anonymous post, the features are numerous. speaking of which, the plugin allows tags, category selection, title, author and url. it also sends the admin a notification once they submit the article for manual approval. while the free version of accesspress anonymous post already sports a ton of amenities, the pro version is also available. more info / download category specific rss feed subscription category specific rss feed subscription is quite different from the other plugins on this list. it allows your readers to choose to subscribe to category-specific feeds on your blog. they can subscribe to each category separately. in the settings page of the plugin, you’ll see the list of categories from which you can select. you can also opt for up to eight custom categories and set links to external sources. these features make the plugin ideal for you if your blog covers a wide range of topics and if you want to allow your readers to select categories to subscribe to. you can also guide them to other links that are of interest to them. more info / download cybersyn cybersyn is lightweight and aggregates and curates content for wordpress sites. what takes it a notch higher than other plugins is that it allows you to import full-text articles. what’s more, this convenient feature is built into the plugin and can be used without any api keys or third-party services. it automatically generates posts from rss feeds. once you enable the option to embed videos, the plugin will help you embed videos from youtube, vimeo, and dailymotion and other feeds right into your posts, along with descriptions. it generates featured images from post images or media attachments. it also allows you to upload images to the server and to translate articles from and to a hundred languages. more info / download premium plugins with so many free plugins available, it may seem unnecessary to look for premium options. however, some wordpress users may prefer premium plugins for the additional features they offer, as well as for the greater support levels. autoblog autoblog uses rss feeds to repost content from multiple blogs to one place. using this plugin, you can completely automate posting to your wordpress blog or website, including multisites. you’ll not need to mess with code; you need to simply identify suitable blogs to source content from and paste a feed url. thereafter, autoblog will start importing content to your blog. you can import content from youtube and facebook as well and schedule your wordpress to auto publish the posts. the plugin helps to identify suitable content by using filters, can link back to original posts, and strips image tags from images. you can set categories, tags, and custom author information. scheduling imports, replacing author information, and opening post links in a popup are some of the other features that are included. not only that, but it also offers you a number of add-ons to use original featured images, auto tweet, or embed videos. the autoblog plugin comes free with the membership package from wpmu dev, though there’s a 30-day free trial available. more info / purchase wp robot wp robot is among the top-selling wordpress autoblogging plugins. it allows you to start building your blog automatically and enhances it by drip feeding fresh and regular content. packages start at $99 for the basic plan that allows you to source content from 32 sites for use on any three sites. the plugin is compatible with most wordpress themes and offers flexibility in finding feeds depending on your niche or keyword. another nice feature is that it allows the insertion of affiliate links from ebay, amazon, and many other affiliate sources automatically into your posts. this means that you’ll be able to make money on complete autopilot. the plugin also offers powerful templates and automatic translation and is regularly updated, having undergone about 80 major updates since its release in 2009. more info / purchase feedzy rss feeds feedzy rss feeds uses shortcodes, and you can add rss feeds wherever you wish from the wordpress editor. once active, you simply have to click on the feedzy icon on the post or page where you want to add the feed. from the popup window, you can customize the post. thereafter, copy the shortcode that is generated into any post, page, or custom post type that you want. you can filter articles using keywords as well as post your feeds as widgets. the plugin is easy to use and, at the same time, allows for some customization. the feeds are also cached automatically, so website speed is not affected. besides, it includes the affiliate and referral id to the feed links. more info / purchase youtubomatic youtubomatic is a new plugin that will be particularly helpful if you’re a video blogger. when this plugin is active on your website, it can automatically import videos from youtube and post them to wordpress using the youtube native api. once you enable this feature, you can upload a video to your channel from youtube merely by linking to it. you can import both the posts and the comments on youtube to provide engaging content on your blog. the plugin cuts down on duplicate content with some advanced features, like a random sentence generator and text synonymizer that make your post different from the source. the text spinner support enhances seo value. google bots are likely to treat the content generated by this plugin as unique for search purposes. you can define the rules based on which posts are generated and search for content using filters and options. shortcodes are available to include videos in a post to display a list of videos suggested by a keyword-based search or to display videos from a playlist. more info / purchase video blogster pro video blogster pro is a full autoblogging solution that allows you to add and schedule any number of video feeds to automatically create new content. each video is imported as a new post with its own title, description, tag, category, author, and comments, so seo is taken care of. you save on bandwidth because the videos are embedded in your post, not streamed. what’s unique about this plugin is that whenever a video is removed from an original site, the post that includes the embedded video is automatically flagged. the plugin supports all wordpress oembed players, is easy to use, and allows a good amount of customization. you can source videos using keyword phrases and filters and order results by date, relevance, rating, view count, and more. many ready-made templates are available for layout besides numerous options to import and process the videos. it ensures that there’s no duplicate content and works seamlessly with wordpress to create posts, sort into categories, and use the date of publication as the date of the posts. the plugin is a good fit for big projects. more info / purchase autoblog iframe extension you can now take content curation to a whole different level with the implementation of autoblog iframe extension. in short, this wordpress auto blogging plugin helps you showcase other websites’ content on your page in an iframe. for your information, autoblog iframe extension keeps your header, footer and ads intact. if this is the type of auto blogging approach that you would like to take, now you know how to make it happen without really needing to sweat. moreover, due to the iframe that autoblog iframe extension creates, there is no duplicate content penalty that you can face. in other words, when you use autoblog iframe extension, your seo will not, in any way, be impacted negatively. avoid the auto blogging that the majority practice and step things up a few notches with the use of autoblog iframe extension plugin. more info / purchase wp auto poster once you already have hundreds or thousands of posts published or even if you are starting afresh, with wp auto poster, you can help yourself save time and energy. it is a great plugin that will offer a helping hand when it comes to scheduling and republishing posts, keeping your blog always fresh and alive. even if you leave for vacation and you do not plan to work on your blog much, wp auto poster will still keep things operating in the background for you. with wp auto poster, you can publish several drafts per day, recycle old posts, change tags and categories, remove sticky posts after a particular timeframe and publish promotional posts during specific events and holidays. of course, you can customize the rules and tailor them to your needs precisely. more info / purchase etsyomatic etsyomatic, as the name suggests, is a wordpress auto blogging plugin that turns your website into an etsy affiliate. if you run a diy blog or a general blog about handmade and craft products, with etsyomatic, you can now push amazing goods from creatives from all over the globe. this plugin helps you create posts with your etsy referral id in them. with little work necessary, you can publish a ton of posts on a daily basis and help potential buyers find the right products. etsyomatic comes with an array of features that will help you make it work for you exactly how you want. some come in the form of custom url redirect, automatic text generation with text spinner, specifying post status, automatically generating featured images and hiding link using bit.ly link shortener. more info / purchase wordpress automatic plugin wordpress automatic plugin is another premium plugin that helps you target and find content from various sources, like amazon and walmart products, youtube, vimeo, and dailymotion videos, feeds posts, ebay auctions, flickr and instagram images, pinterest pins, reddits, twitter tweets, facebook posts, craigslist classifieds, itunes podcasts, envato items, and soundcloud. when it comes to articles, the plugin can extract categories and tags, as well as specific parts of original articles, and convert parts of articles into complete posts. there are options to strip all links before publishing, set post status to draft or published, exclude words and phrases, translate content before posting, and automatically set featured images. you can adjust the settings so as to skip posts without images, non-english posts, and duplicate titles. it supports multisites and adds custom fields to the posts automatically. these fields can contain details like title, author, content, image, price, and rating. more info / purchase to wrap up autoblogging is a nice way to collate information and to present them to readers in a single place. it allows readers to simply consume content without having to search for it. you can combine autoblogging with some quality affiliate wordpress themes to increase traffic to your site and make money through ads and affiliate links. these blogs need very little by way of maintenance. using a great wordpress theme for your blog can help, too. autoblogging keeps your blog active all the time and makes sure that your readers have something new to read each time they visit your site. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress autoblogging pluginswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts top 26 wordpress plugins for freelancers to improve their workflow being a freelancer has huge benefits, but it also comes with a lot of challenges.… top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 wpbakery page builder was the first-ever wordpress plugin for building pages that support addons/plugins. wpbakery… 14 best wordpress plugins for selling digital products 2020 in the age of the internet, you can buy literally anything you like online with… top 14 free shopping cart e-commerce plugins for wordpress after spending months of planning and weeks of preparation to set up a business, how… 10 safe-to-use idx plugins for your website real estate agents are having a struggle when it comes to finding the right client… the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2019 any person who is marketing any product or service online understands the value of an… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii 16 free wordpress advertising plugins to boost revenue we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (122) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 22 fantastic wordpress booking plugins 2020 next post: top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×