got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos the nastiest celebrity divorces! johnny depp vs amber heardwhen amber heard left johnny depp in the summer of 2016, she did so with the claim he struck her with a thrown cell phone. then came a restraining order, blackmail claims, financial disputes -- they don't get much uglier than this. years later, court docs revealed depp was also accusing heard of abuse, alleging she punched him twice in the face following a night of drinking and severed the tip of his finger with a thrown bottle -- painting a very different story from the one she described in which he would suddenly go mad out of nowhere and beat her. not only that, it was reported their housekeeper would testify alongside "strong photographic evidence" that amber played a nasty prank on depp by taking a s**t in his bed. her team insists it was dog poop, though his team claims the poo was too big to be her pup's. as outlandish as those claims were, for many months the world largely took amber's side. however, in early 2020 audio tapes of their private conversations began to leak; in these tapes amber not only admitted to being violent toward johnny, she also told him no one would believe him if he went public. he also seems to acknowledge her references to moments of violence towards her, though both continue to publicly deny the other's claims. this has probably become the messiest celeb divorce of our lifetime. [image via brian to/wenn.] … next » share this categories amber heard angelina jolie brad pitt breakups britney spears hulk hogan jennifer aniston johnny depp katy perry kelsey grammer kevin federline khloe kardashian kim kardashian lamar odom love line mel b photos! russell brand violence related galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy