for honest money and social progress home articles literature primer download bookstore links contact us sign up about our vision our approach our team european fellows academic fellows our advisory board our thanks privacy policy by max rangeley announcements20 december 17 cobden centre seminar at the oecd and meeting at the imf read more by the cobden centre announcements28 april 16 the cobden centre organises first digital currencies conference in any parliament worldwide read more by steve baker economics, money24 september 15 the bank of england’s one bank research programme – how to truly challenge the orthodoxy? read more by max rangeley economics24 july 15 steve baker treasury select committee compilation read more what is the cobden centre? what is the austrian school of economics? latest articles economics27 march 20 the fear factor of europe’s public debt by other writer by elisabeth krecké global debt has surged spectacularly in recent years and now stands at an all-time high of more than 322 percent of… read more economics25 march 20 the global economy won’t bounce back soon by other writer in february, the general consensus between large investment banks and supranational entities was that there would be a one-time hit to gdp in the… read more economics23 march 20 weeks where decades happen by tim price “there are decades where nothing happens; and there are weeks where decades happen.” lenin “my daughter just said to me, ‘daddy, the stock… read more economics20 march 20 to kill markets is the worst possible plan by dr richard m. ebeling omentous events usually leave strong memories on those who have lived through them, and those memories often become passed on to later generations in… read more economics16 march 20 epidemics, economic growth and stock-market performance – an historical perspective by colin lloyd as the covid-19 pandemic gathers momentum, history offers too few data points the spanish flu is the nearest comparison – similarities are matched… read more economics13 march 20 stockman: coronavirus the ‘catalyst’ for popping the ‘mother of all bond bubbles’ by other writer read more economics11 march 20 artificial intelligence and emerging technologies speech in the european parliament by max rangeley in january the cobden centre worked with the ludwig von mises institute to organise an event in the european parliament on artificial intelligence and… read more economics9 march 20 the questionable role of quantitative methods in economics by dr frank shostak most economists consider the use of sophisticated mathematical and statistical methods key towards understanding the complexities of economics. they are of the view that… read more economics6 march 20 government budget deficit and economic growth by dr frank shostak the us budget had a deficit of $32.6 billion in january compared with a deficit of $13.3 billion in december and a surplus… read more economics4 march 20 prof. huerta de soto’s seminal course in the austrian school translated into english by jesús huerta de soto prof. huerta de soto would like to dedicate his university lectures to all the members, followers and friends of the cobden centre. these lectures… read more economics2 march 20 the european stability mechanism is critical to the future functioning of the euro by gordon kerr in the ten years since the first iteration of the european stability mechanism (esm) emerged, its status has changed markedly. initially, it was just… read more economics28 february 20 why banks are not lenders as such? by dr frank shostak according to the popular way of thinking the subject matter of lending is banking activity. it is banks, so it is held that… read more economics26 february 20 happy 90th birthday, professor israel kirzner! by dr richard m. ebeling even in an era when modern medicine and technologies are adding to people’s lifetimes, along with the gains in general human economic betterment, it… read more economics24 february 20 get to the chopper ! by tim price “‘get to da choppa !’ “short for the whole phrase that dutch (played by arnold schwarzenegger) says in the movie predator, which goes: “run!… read more march 2020 m t w t f s s « feb 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 categories categories select category announcements book reviews cobden centre radio economics ethics events free trade interviews law media money peace politics press richard cobden society tcc development authors abhinandan mallick adrian ash alan hamilton alasdair macleod alex malt allan stevo andrew osborne andy duncan anita acavalos anthony j. evans antoine clarke antonio pancorbo b. chandrasekaran ben davies ben dyson ben lodge billy walsh bruno prior caitlin long caleb mcmillan chris neal colin lloyd damien phillips david campbell david conway david howden dean buckner detlev schlichter dominic frisby dominik schönenberger douglas carswell dr frank shostak dr richard m. ebeling dr tim evans dylan grice europol ewen stewart gary galles george murray george reisman gerard casey gerardo coco godfrey bloom gordon kerr ingolf eide ivo mosley jake matthews james hickling james tyler jamie whyte jan skoyles jeffrey tucker jesús huerta de soto john butler john cochran john phelan john tomlinson jonathan catalán jonathan escott jörg guido hülsmann joseph t. salerno juraj karpiš keith weiner krzysztof nedzynski lewis lehrman liam halligan mark garnier mp mark goodhand mark littlewood mark mahaffey mark skousen max rangeley morgan reynolds nick ottens nikolay gertchev oecd contributors other writer otto von schwamendingen patrick barron patrick crozier paul birch paul f. cwik paul tustain philip booth philip vander elst prof kevin dowd prof peter j. boettke prof philipp bagus ralph benko richard wellings robert blumen robert p. murphy robert sadler robert thorpe ronald-peter stöferle sam bowman sean corrigan stephen davies steve baker syed kamall the banker the cobden centre thomas paterson thorsten polleit tim lawson-cruttenden tim lucas tim price toby baxendale tom burroughes tom clougherty tony greenham vincent wolters vipin veetil vishal wilde will bancroft latest articles on economics economics27 march 20 the fear factor of europe’s public debt by other writer by elisabeth krecké global debt has surged spectacularly in recent years and now stands at an all-time high of more than 322 percent of… economics25 march 20 the global economy won’t bounce back soon by other writer in february, the general consensus between large investment banks and supranational entities was that there would be a one-time hit to gdp in the… economics23 march 20 weeks where decades happen by tim price “there are decades where nothing happens; and there are weeks where decades happen.” lenin “my daughter just said to me, ‘daddy, the stock… view the category latest by format the fear factor of europe’s public debt the global economy won’t bounce back soon weeks where decades happen latest articles on money money16 september 19 treascomm: steve baker, mark carney and the future of the monetary system by max rangeley economics, money19 june 19 mises on 100-percent reserve banking by other writer by edward w. fuller economists debate whether ludwig von mises advocated free banking or 100 percent reserve banking. this debate is significant. mises states, “the… money31 may 19 the world is growing tired of government-controlled fiat currencies by other writer source: https://mises.org/wire/world-growing-tired-government-controlled-fiat-currencies listen to the audio mises wire version of this article. here in the u.s. the financial markets are focusing on fed chair jerome powell’s herky-jerky monetary… view the category learn what causes the business cycle click here to change your understanding of the crisis why are we interested in bitcoin? click here to find out more how can you learn more about what causes financial crises? we have one of the best economics newsletters on the web march 2020 m t w t f s s « feb 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 categories categories select category announcements book reviews cobden centre radio economics ethics events free trade interviews law media money peace politics press richard cobden society tcc development authors select author... abhinandan mallick adrian ash alan hamilton alasdair macleod alex malt allan stevo andrew osborne andy duncan anita acavalos anthony j. evans antoine clarke antonio pancorbo b. chandrasekaran ben davies ben dyson ben lodge billy walsh bruno prior caitlin long caleb mcmillan chris neal colin lloyd damien phillips david campbell david conway david howden dean buckner detlev schlichter dominic frisby dominik schönenberger douglas carswell dr frank shostak dr richard m. ebeling dr tim evans dylan grice europol ewen stewart gary galles george murray george reisman gerard casey gerardo coco godfrey bloom gordon kerr ingolf eide ivo mosley jake matthews james hickling james tyler jamie whyte jan skoyles jeffrey tucker jesús huerta de soto john butler john cochran john phelan john tomlinson jonathan catalán jonathan escott jörg guido hülsmann joseph t. salerno juraj karpiš keith weiner krzysztof nedzynski lewis lehrman liam halligan mark garnier mp mark goodhand mark littlewood mark mahaffey mark skousen max rangeley morgan reynolds nick ottens nikolay gertchev oecd contributors other writer otto von schwamendingen patrick barron patrick crozier paul birch paul f. cwik paul tustain philip booth philip vander elst prof kevin dowd prof peter j. boettke prof philipp bagus ralph benko richard wellings robert blumen robert p. murphy robert sadler robert thorpe ronald-peter stöferle sam bowman sean corrigan stephen davies steve baker syed kamall the banker the cobden centre thomas paterson thorsten polleit tim lawson-cruttenden tim lucas tim price toby baxendale tom burroughes tom clougherty tony greenham vincent wolters vipin veetil vishal wilde will bancroft tags 100% reserve banking austrian school bank credit banking bank of england ben bernanke blog central banking china deflation ecb economic cycles economics essentials euro f a hayek federal reserve financial stability fractional reserve banking free trade gdp gold gold standard greece honest money huerta de soto inflation insight keynes keynesianism king world news lending markets mises monetary policy money money supply paul krugman peter schiff quantitative easing reform regulation risk sean corrigan sovereign debt powered by wordpress. created by themesindep back to top this site uses cookies more infofine