home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog the cutest wedding place cards idea – diy seating chart august 19, 2019 by erin weiss leave a comment i’ve been meaning to show you guys some of the creative pieces i added to our wedding recently but have been so darn busy it’s been tough to post. one of my favorite diy wedding projects of my recent wedding was my wedding place cards idea. i’m so excited to share it with you! if you’re looking for a creative diy project for your wedding to organize and display your guest’s tables, you’ve come to the right post! first off, my wedding was magical! it was the best day ever! we got married at the charleston harbor resort and our reception was at the charleston harbor resort fish house – yacht club. the views of the reception overlooked beautiful charleston, sc, the ravenel bridge, ocean and the uss yorktown. here are a few photos of my reception at the charleston harbor fish house yacht club. i had a photo booth at our wedding and i wanted to create some kind of way to incorporate both the photo booth photos, place cards for table assignments and a wedding favor all in one. i was able to do this by creating a magnetic wedding place card board that was a huge hit. above is a picture of the final product on display at our reception. we had it on a separate table as guests walked in. it says “please find your seat” and each person has an individual place card on the board. guests just found their name from the board, pulled it off and headed to the table number on their place card. magnetic wedding place cards: each guest’s name was in a 2x6 clear plastic magnetic photobooth frame each frame had a custom printout inserted into the frame that says their name, table number and a personal note. i chose to write “thank you for joining us on our special day! please visist our photobooth! take a print home in this frame as a gift to you. thank you for making our day picture perfect! love erin & brad” you can get a template for a 2×6 insert on etsy.com. there are a lot of different options. once you buy the template from a seller on etsy, you’ll just open up the file and add your own message and guest names. i printed mine on regular office printer paper (nothing fancy). i knew our guests would just be taking the inserts out and replacing them with their photobooth picture so there is no need to spend on high quality paper/ink! the magnetic board the hardest part of this whole project was finding a magnetic board that would not only look nice but be the appropriate size for the amount of guests we were having. we had around 55 guests and i went with 48″ x 36″ this magnetic chalk board. we had a lot of room in between name cards so we could probably have fit many more on this size board. they also sell a 36″ x 24″ option if you have fewer guests. it ended up being absolutely perfect. i scoured the internet reading amazon reviews for days trying to find a perfect magnetic board that would actually hold magnets well. this specific board was a great purchase. the vinyl lettering as far as the lettering on the board, i just went on etsy.com again and found someone who would do custom vinyl. it was really cheap to have them create stick on vinyl lettering. i went with white vinyl and the size i purchased was 11″h x 15″w. once the vinyl arrived in the mail, i just stuck it on the board where i wanted it. easy peasy! once guests grabbed their place card from the magnetic board, they were able to know what table to go to. i had beautiful gold table numbers on each table. wedding table numbers custom engraved name place cards once our guests found their table, each place setting had a gold (plastic) name cut out placed on each table setting. this allowed our so guests to know what seat to sit in. these were really hard to find at a reasonable price! i ended up purchasing them from etsy from a seller in bulgaria. i was nervous about the turn around time from the time i finalized my guest names to the date of our reception but they ended up shipping pretty fast. in the end i ended up ordering extra names for the people who weren’t confirmed yet on my guest list. unfortunately, i ended up wasting a bit of money on this decision but i chose to order earlier to make sure they arrived in time instead of waiting to save some money. the photobooth frame was multi purpose. it allowed guests to know their table number and as well as where to sit at the table. it was perfect and i got so many compliments on the creativity of it as well as the frames being a party favor as well. later on in the night, guests enjoyed our photobooth and placed their pictures in their frames and took them home as a wedding favor. this was a very easy diy wedding project and a relatively cheap option for wedding favors as well! i’d love to hear your feedback of this diy wedding place cards idea. leave a comment below! xoxo, erin filed under: diy, personal tagged with: wedding place cards you may also enjoy: comment here! facebook wordpress please enable javascript to view the comments powered by google+. loading facebook comments ... please enable javascript to view the comments powered by facebook. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in