petapixel news equipment tutorials archives send a tip links about contact advertise privacy policy full disclosure search type here what you are looking for search 500 k 1 m facebook 500 k / likes twitter 1 m / followers the supreme court just decided that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement mar 23, 2020 dl cade share tweet 0 earlier today, the supreme court of the united states dealt a major blow to photographers’ copyright protections when it declared that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement because they have “sovereign immunity.” the opinion came down as part of a writ of certiorari regarding the case of allen v cooper. a writ of certiorari is basically a review of a lower court’s decision, and in this case, the supreme court has upheld the decision by the court of appeals for the fourth circuit, which decided that states are immune from copyright infringement lawsuits. the case began in 2013, when videographer frederick allen sued north carolina for using his videos of the salvage of queen anne’s revenge, a shipwreck discovered off the north carolina coast in 1998, without permission. the state claimed “sovereign immunity,” and though they initially lost this argument in the eastern district of north carolina, the us court of appeals for the fourth circuit reversed the ruling. allen appealed one final time, which is how we ended up with today’s decision by the supreme court. you can read the full opinion below: in essence, the supreme court agreed with the fourth circuit, ultimately striking down the copyright remedy clarification act (crca) of 1990. this 30-year-old amendment to the copyright act of 1976 tried to strip states of their sovereign immunity where copyright was concerned, and it was at the core of allen’s lawsuit. if states can’t claim sovereign immunity to get out of copyright infringement, then north carolina had no defense. unfortunately, the supreme court agreed with the fourth circuit, stating that congress lacked the authority to take away state’s immunity in the crca, passing the buck back to congress and giving states carte blanche to infringe with impunity (or, as it were, immunity). the nppa warned against this very outcome late last year, when they filed an amicus brief with the supreme court in this case. “the decision, in this case, will ultimately determine whether states can be held liable for damages under the copyright act,” wrote the nppa at the time, “or whether sovereign immunity clears the way for states to infringe with impunity everything from photographs to hollywood movies.” now this warning has become harsh reality. “we are extremely disappointed in the court’s opinion as being another blow to photographers’ copyright protections,” mickey osterreicher, nppa general counsel, told petapixel earlier today. “while scotus held that congress ‘lacked authority to abrogate the states’ immunity from copyright infringement suits in the crca,’ we are hopeful that at some point soon the congress will appropriately address this inequity.” that hope lies, primarily, with the big hollywood studios, who have plenty of reason to get after congress to make this right, and pass a version of the crca that strips states of their copyright immunity, without violating the constitution at the same time. “in the meantime,” says osterreicher, “we worry that this ruling will only embolden states to further infringe the works of others.” works like rick allen‘s videos: one shred of hope—a workaround if you will—does exist however. j. michael keyes, an intellectual property attorney and partner at the law firm dorsey & whitney, tells petapixel that photographers could still go after any third party that the state may have used to perpetrate the infringement. “while states are immune from suit, others that may be involved in copying or reproducing the work at issue are not,” says keyes. “for example, if a state uses the resources of a third party to copy or distribute the work at issues, those parties would still be potentially on the hook for infringement claims.” maybe this will give some photographers and videographers recourse—or keep states in line—while we wait for congress to react to this ruling and address the issue properly. image credits: photo by joe ravi, cc-by-sa 3.0 tags: allenvcooper, congress, copyright, copyrightinfringement, infringement, northcarolina, shipwreck, statesrights, supremecourt share tweet 0 please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus. prev these are the finalists of nikon’s surf photo of the year 2020 next why are we so sentimental about photos of mom? trending posts photos of the robots living among us mar 25, 2020 sony spins off camera business into separate company mar 26, 2020 adobe is giving everyone 2 months of free creative cloud — here’s how to get it mar 18, 2020 a boston event photographer shares her story of contracting covid-19 mar 24, 2020 21 portrait photography lessons from 21 great photographers mar 25, 2020 nat geo: those viral animal photos you’ve been seeing on twitter are fake mar 24, 2020 the library of fake ‘travel photos’ in asia mar 24, 2020 photographer died protecting his film during the 1980 mt. st. helens eruption sep 07, 2011 ilford: stockpile rolls of film, not toilet paper mar 25, 2020 70 inspirational quotes for photographers may 29, 2014 polaroid originals reclaims ‘polaroid’ name, unveils polaroid now camera mar 26, 2020 i used my drone to take fun portraits of people in self-isolation 7 hours ago drone photos of singapore shot at 1,640 feet mar 23, 2020 nikon z vs nikon d: a comparison mar 24, 2020 portraits in the time of coronavirus: shooting free front porch photo sessions mar 25, 2020 the supreme court just decided that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement mar 23, 2020 how to turn your bedroom into a giant camera and use it to make pictures mar 24, 2020 eerie drone footage of an empty san francisco during quarantine mar 26, 2020 adobe offers students free at-home access to creative cloud apps amid coronavirus closures mar 13, 2020 this obstacle avoiding drone is so fast it can play dodgeball mar 25, 2020 archives news gear inspiration tutorials reviews archives podcast copyright © 2020 petapixel subscribe our newsletter to stay up to date 500 k 1 m