the shulman law group digital marketing | local business seo & ppc think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 the shulman law group marketing the shulman law group helps more clients with their immigration cases with seo. the shulman law group is recognized as one of the best immigration law firms in the united states. this law firm helps resolve immigration issues including spousal/family petitions, deportation and removal defense, naturalization applications, work visas, and much more. logo web design seo pay per click the challenge the shulman law group’s current website was on a custom cms which made it difficult to update and optimize. in addition, a majority of the services they offered were not outlined on the website which meant they were not reaching their target audience. the plan research the local market and identify new content opportunities create content based on specific keywords to improve ranking on google migrate current website onto wordpress for ease of use run a link building campaign to increase search rankings the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in conversions 0% increase in average time on site 0% increase in average page views per session shulman law group website design by smartsites shulman law group website design by smartsites shulman law group website design by smartsites get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha phone this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated smartsites showed me great results fast and now they run google adwords, bing ads, and facebook ads for me. smartsites also manages the website and seo initiatives. we recently expanded our third location and continue to drive appointments through the digital marketing. studio esthetique vladimir byhovsky view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials they have a team approach that allows them to efficiently work on your projects. their methods of communication is efficient as well. in the midst of working on our project now and already impressed! i would suggest smart sites to anyone looking for an all around great web development company. easw andy holst view 100+ more testimonials after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials i had a great experience working with smartsites and wouldn’t hesitate to recommend them. the level of customer service, marketing skills, and efficiency was beyond the scope of my expectations! perfect dashboard bartek jaz view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies the shulman law group recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect