home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads against aloneness in the web of life: ernst haeckel, charles darwin, and the art of turning personal tragedy into a portal to transcendence proteus: ernst haeckel at the intersection of art & science natural histories: 500 years of rare scientific illustrations from the american museum of natural history archives labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks the otherworldly beauty of jellyfish: how ernst haeckel turned personal tragedy into transcendent art in the world’s first encyclopedia of medusae a story of transmuting the grief of one life into a celebration of the grandeur of life. by maria popova “i hope you are able to work hard on science & thus banish, as far as may be possible, painful remembrances,” charles darwin wrote in the spring of 1864 to a young and obscure german correspondent who had just sent him two folios of his stunningly illustrated studies of tiny single-celled marine organisms — a masterwork that enchanted darwin as one of the most majestic things he had ever seen. but ernst haeckel (february 16, 1834–august 9, 1919), who would go on to coin the term ecology and become a preeminent champion of evolution, could not banish the unbanishable: months earlier, on his thirtieth birthday, anna, the love of his life, had been snatched from him by a sudden death medicine failed to explain; the couple were about to be married that summer after a long engagement, having finally scraped together enough to start a family when ernst received his first academic appointment. anna sethe and ernst haeckel shortly before her death. in the wake of his fathomless bereavement, the young marine biologist applied the joan didion method of dealing with grief by motion and headed for france. pacing the beaches of nice, his mind on an irretrievable elsewhere and his heart a menacing vacuity, he stopped mid-stride — something had clutched his attention with the claim only wonder can lay on the worst-stung soul: afloat near the surface of the tide pool was a jellyfish — a medusa species he had never seen before. thamnostylus dinema (available as a print) haeckel had fallen under the spell of medusae ten years earlier, at twenty, while accompanying a mentor on a fishing and research expedition. he had exulted in a letter to his parents: you cannot believe what new things i see and learn here every day; it exceeds by far my most exaggerated expectations and hopes. everything that i studied for years in books, i see here suddenly with my own eyes, as if i were cast under a spell, and each hour, which brings me surprises and instruction, prepares wonderful memories for the future. aequorea, orchistoma, zycocanna, olindias (available as a print) pectyllis arctica (available as a print) polybostricha (available as a print) the jellyfish the boat pulled up staggered haeckel’s imagination with both their otherworldly beauty and the unsolved scientific mysteries they held: he knew that polyps were thought to develop from jellyfish eggs and wondered whether this might suggest that these complex translucent marvels themselves evolved from such simple organisms. but when he posed “this rather forward question” to his mentor, he was surprised to receive only excited bafflement — the elder scientist admitted that the origin of the species was completely unknown. dipurena, euphysa, steenstupia (available as a print) cannorhiza, versura (available as a print) now, a decade and a devastation later, haeckel surrendered to this early enchantment to steady himself on the parallel bannisters of wonder and discovery, of aesthetic splendor and scientific challenge. in the tragic sense of life: ernst haeckel and the struggle over evolutionary thought (public library), robert j. richards argues that “haeckel’s science and his legacy for modern evolutionary theory display the features they do because of his tragic sense of life,” and considers how this young man’s deeply human coping mechanism for his personal devastation shaped his scientific outlook and his artistic imagination: ernst haeckel experienced the passion for transcendence through a love that lifted him to ecstasy and then crushed him in despair. this experience invaded his insistently rational attitudes, even transforming his science into a means for escaping the grasping hand of mortality. […] with the extinction of love came emptiness, a void that quickly filled with the miasma of great stridency, bitterness, and ineluctable sadness, which not even friends… could clear away. through this acid mist, haeckel resolved to devote himself single-mindedly to a cause that might transcend individual fragility. he would incessantly push the darwinian ideal and oppose it to those who refused to look at life, to look at death, face on. haeckel spent the next fifteen years studying and illustrating these strange and beautiful creatures — creatures evocative of trees and mushrooms, of ovaries and spaceships — naming the most beautiful of the species he encountered for his lost beloved: mitrocoma annae — “anna’s headband.” mitrocoma (available as a print) a generation before his marine biology colleague and compatriot carl chun hired an artist to illustrate the world’s first encyclopedia of deep-sea cephalopods, haeckel himself illustrated the world’s first encyclopedia of deep-sea jellyfish — a multi-part catalogue of more than six hundred medusa species. tucked into his otherwise coolly scientific prose is a deeply personal ember of his grief: mitrocoma annae belongs to the most charming and delicate of all the medusae. it was first observed by me in april 1864, in the bay of villafranca near nice… the movement of this wonderful eucopide offered a magical view, and i enjoyed several happy hours watching the play of her tentacles, which hang like blond hair-ornaments from the rim of the delicate umbrella-cap and which with the softest movement would roll up into thick short spirals… i name this species, the princess of the eucopiden, as a memorial to my unforgettable true wife, anna sethe. if i have succeeded, during my earthly pilgrimage in accomplishing something for natural science and humanity, i owe the greatest part to the ennobling influence of this gifted wife, who was torn from me through sudden death… ulmaris, undosa, aurosa (available as a print) floscula, floresca (available as a print) cunarcha aeginoides (available as a print) ephyra, palephyra, zonephyra, nausicaa (available as a print) pectis antarctica (available as a print) polycolpa forskalii (available as a print) tesserantha connectens (available as a print) periphylla mirabilis (available as a print) leonura terminalis (available as a print) tetranema, dissonema, thaumantias, cosmetira, melicertella, polyorchis (available as a print) tessera, depastrella (available as a print) pericolpa (available as a print) periphylla (available as a print) when haeckel, almost fifty, was able to built a house of his own in jena, he adorned its walls with frescoes of medusae and called it villa medusa. codonium, sarsia, dicodonium, amphicodon, amalthaea (available as a print) drymonema victoria (available as a print) anyone who has suffered savaging personal loss knows intimately that moment — a moment that can last months, years, a lifetime — when it seems like the only way to lose one’s suffering is to lose oneself. perhaps what drew haeckel to these particular creatures was their particular evolutionary biology, which dissolves the very notion of a self. in their complex life-cycles, the concept of individuality ceases to make sense — the psychological reality of our human existence, in which we spend our lives trying to discern where we end and the rest of the world begins, is a physiological reality for jellyfish. (the great scientist and poet lewis thomas would explore this a century after haeckel in the medusa and the snail — one of the profoundest, most beautiful things ever written about the paradoxes of the self.) some jellyfish species pulse into existence via a process of alternating generation — the adult animals swim untethered and reproduce sexually, but the larvae that emerge from their fertilized eggs become hydra-like creatures that root to the seafloor, asexually sprouting buds that then restart the cycle by developing into the drifting, mate-seeking grown jellyfish. some exist as specialized parts of a vast colonial animal, in which individuals become organs — reproductive, digestive, motive — of this collective being. for haeckel, much of the medusae’s enchantment and consolation radiated from this very unselfing. likening them to bouquets of flowers endowed with “an intricate structure indicating a most interesting and rather advanced division of labor,” he wrote: think of a delicate slim bouquet of flowers, the leaves and colored buds of which are as transparent as glass, a bouquet that winds through the water in a graceful and lively fashion — then you’ll have an idea of these wonderful, beautiful, and delicate colonial animals. in this flowering collectivism haeckel found not only solace for the aches of the self but affirmation of the central ideas that animated him into becoming one of the most ardent and effective advocates for darwin’s evolutionary theory against the era’s ferocious tide of dogmatic opposition. darwin, who had waded through his own fathomless loss when his daughter annie died despite his every effort to save her, placed at the center of his scientific work the notion of natural selection — the survival and improvement of the species through the demise of the individual. such an understanding, scientific or personal, renders death not a slight by fate but an ally of nature, part of the impartial laws holding the universe together — mortality unmoored from morality and metaphysics. “there is grandeur in this view of life,” darwin whispered to himself in the closing pages of a book bellowing a new scientific truth that forever changed humanity’s understanding of nature. pteronema, gemmaria, ctenaria, dendronema (available as a print) a century later, picking up where haeckel left off and wresting ecology from the insular vernacular of science to embed it into the popular lexicon, rachel carson — another visionary marine biologist who lived between the tragic and the transcendent — reaffirmed that grandeur in a pioneering masterwork of scientific poetics, writing that “the lifespan of a particular plant or animal appears, not as drama complete in itself, but only as a brief interlude in a panorama of endless change.” pectanthis asteroides (available as a print) donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published march 26, 2020 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2020/03/26/ernst-haeckel-medusae/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artcultureernst haeckelphilosophyscience view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.