the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: rapelling down el capitan in yosemite posted on march 19, 2020march 19, 2020 by kraig becker if you’re looking to get your heart pumping today, this video might come in handy. it takes us to el capitan in yosemite national park where we join climber steven donovan as he rappels down the face of what is arguably the most iconic climbing wall in the world. as you can imagine, the experience… read more paraplegic rower sets sights on the pacific ocean posted on march 19, 2020march 19, 2020 by kraig becker we could all use a dose of inspiration right now and i think we may have found one in the form of angela madsen, a long distance rower who is gearing up for a very big challenge. madsen hopes to set out on a solo and unsupported crossing of the pacific ocean later this spring,… read more unsurprisingly the north pole expedition season is in jeopardy due to coronavirus posted on march 19, 2020march 19, 2020 by kraig becker as the world continues to struggle with containing the still quickly-spreading coronavirus, another staple of the spring expedition and exploration season seems likely to be cancelled. normally at this time of the year, eager travelers and adventurous researchers are planning to head to the arctic to embark on a number of different journeys. but, as… read more video: summits of my life ii – déjame vivir posted on march 18, 2020march 18, 2020 by kraig becker yesterday i shared one of kilian jornet’s videos from his summits of my life series. today, we have a second one, released online for free to help provide a bit of an adventure fix in these weird and unsettling times. in this video, which is more than an hour in length, kilian sets out to… read more video: more than just forests — the ashley national forest of utah posted on march 18, 2020march 18, 2020 by kraig becker in time when none of us are probably getting outside as much as we’d like, this video is a welcome respite from our “social distancing” and “self quarantine.” brought to us by the team that makes all of those spectacular more than just parks videos, this clip takes us to the ashley national forest in… read more the adventure podcast episode 98: trekking across papua new guinea with james campbell posted on march 18, 2020march 18, 2020 by kraig becker after taking last week off due to travel, the adventure podcast returns this week amidst weird and uncertain times. as you can imagine, the coronavirus is a major topic of discussion for myself and my co-host dave adlard as we get up to speed with everything that has been happening in the world since our… read more iditarod 2020: norwegian thomas waerner wins the race! posted on march 18, 2020march 18, 2020 by kraig becker as expected, the first musher has reached nome, alaska today as part of the 2020 iditarod sled dog race. norwegian thomas waerner complete the course early this morning, arriving at the finish line 12:37 am local time to claim his first victory in this iconic endurance challenge. his total race time was 9 days, 10… read more is the worldbig3 the next major adventure challenge? posted on march 18, 2020march 18, 2020 by kraig becker the outdoor adventure and exploration community has always looked for big, bold new challenges. for years, it was all about climbing the seven summits or reaching the top of all 14 8000-meter peaks. then there was the explore’s grand slam, which added skiing to the north and south pole to the mix. now, comes a… read more video: summits of my life — a fine line posted on march 17, 2020march 17, 2020 by kraig becker we all have to find ways to contend with the current coronavirus pandemic. this can be especially hard for those of us who love our outdoor adventures. to help us make it through however, spanish endurance athlete and mountaineer kilian jornet has made his summits of my life series free to watch for the first time…. read more video: survivorman les stroud breaks down survival scenes from movies posted on march 17, 2020march 17, 2020 by kraig becker there once was a time when the outdoor community was divided into those who loved bear grylls and his over the top antics and those who were fans of les stroud and his more realistic approach to survival. both men had their supporters and detractors, and each made for interesting television. but in recent years,… read more previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 1,378 next search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog