before you go... check out the bestselling books of all time see the list 2 cart: 12 books authors series about us read an excerpt buy look inside | reading guide read an excerpt buy look inside | reading guide read an excerpt buy reading guide read an excerpt buy reading guide read an excerpt buy reading guide the nickel boys a novel a novel a novel a novel a novel by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour by colson whitehead on tour read by jd jackson and colson whitehead by colson whitehead on tour read by jd jackson and colson whitehead by colson whitehead on tour read by jd jackson and colson whitehead by colson whitehead on tour read by jd jackson and colson whitehead best seller category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks paperback $27.00 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9781984892249 buy hardcover $24.95 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537070 buy ebook $12.99 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537087 buy cd $35.00 jul 16, 2019 | 420 minutes buy audiobook download $17.50 jul 16, 2019 | 406 minutes buy all formats + hardcover jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537070 buy paperback jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9781984892249 buy ebook jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537087 buy cd jul 16, 2019 | 420 minutes buy audiobook download jul 16, 2019 | 406 minutes buy see all formats (4) + paperback + paperback buy $27.00 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9781984892249 hardcover – hardcover buy $24.95 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537070 ebook + ebook buy $12.99 jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537087 audio (2) + cd buy $35.00 jul 16, 2019 | 420 minutes audiobook download buy $17.50 jul 16, 2019 | 406 minutes buy the audiobook download: apple audible downpour emusic audiobooks.com add to cart add to cart add to cart about the nickel boys new york times bestseller national book critics circle award finalist one of time magazine’s 10 best fiction books of the decade winner of the kirkus prize longlisted for the national book award in this bravura follow-up to the pulitzer prize, and national book award-winning #1 new york times bestseller the underground railroad, colson whitehead brilliantly dramatizes another strand of american history through the story of two boys sentenced to a hellish reform school in jim crow-era florida. as the civil rights movement begins to reach the black enclave of frenchtown in segregated tallahassee, elwood curtis takes the words of dr. martin luther king to heart: he is “as good as anyone.” abandoned by his parents, but kept on the straight and narrow by his grandmother, elwood is about to enroll in the local black college. but for a black boy in the jim crow south of the early 1960s, one innocent mistake is enough to destroy the future. elwood is sentenced to a juvenile reformatory called the nickel academy, whose mission statement says it provides “physical, intellectual and moral training” so the delinquent boys in their charge can become “honorable and honest men.” in reality, the nickel academy is a grotesque chamber of horrors where the sadistic staff beats and sexually abuses the students, corrupt officials and locals steal food and supplies, and any boy who resists is likely to disappear “out back.” stunned to find himself in such a vicious environment, elwood tries to hold onto dr. king’s ringing assertion “throw us in jail and we will still love you.” his friend turner thinks elwood is worse than naive, that the world is crooked, and that the only way to survive is to scheme and avoid trouble. the tension between elwood’s ideals and turner’s skepticism leads to a decision whose repercussions will echo down the decades. formed in the crucible of the evils jim crow wrought, the boys’ fates will be determined by what they endured at the nickel academy. based on the real story of a reform school in florida that operated for one hundred and eleven years and warped the lives of thousands of children, the nickel boys is a devastating, driven narrative that showcases a great american novelist writing at the height of his powers. about the nickel boys new york times bestseller national book critics circle award finalist one of time magazine’s 10 best fiction books of the decade winner of the kirkus prize longlisted for the national book award in this bravura follow-up to the pulitzer prize, and national book award-winning #1 new york times bestseller the underground railroad, colson whitehead brilliantly dramatizes another strand of american history through the story of two boys sentenced to a hellish reform school in jim crow-era florida. as the civil rights movement begins to reach the black enclave of frenchtown in segregated tallahassee, elwood curtis takes the words of dr. martin luther king to heart: he is “as good as anyone.” abandoned by his parents, but kept on the straight and narrow by his grandmother, elwood is about to enroll in the local black college. but for a black boy in the jim crow south of the early 1960s, one innocent mistake is enough to destroy the future. elwood is sentenced to a juvenile reformatory called the nickel academy, whose mission statement says it provides “physical, intellectual and moral training” so the delinquent boys in their charge can become “honorable and honest men.” in reality, the nickel academy is a grotesque chamber of horrors where the sadistic staff beats and sexually abuses the students, corrupt officials and locals steal food and supplies, and any boy who resists is likely to disappear “out back.” stunned to find himself in such a vicious environment, elwood tries to hold onto dr. king’s ringing assertion “throw us in jail and we will still love you.” his friend turner thinks elwood is worse than naive, that the world is crooked, and that the only way to survive is to scheme and avoid trouble. the tension between elwood’s ideals and turner’s skepticism leads to a decision whose repercussions will echo down the decades. formed in the crucible of the evils jim crow wrought, the boys’ fates will be determined by what they endured at the nickel academy. based on the real story of a reform school in florida that operated for one hundred and eleven years and warped the lives of thousands of children, the nickel boys is a devastating, driven narrative that showcases a great american novelist writing at the height of his powers. about the nickel boys new york times bestseller national book critics circle award finalist one of time magazine’s 10 best fiction books of the decade winner of the kirkus prize longlisted for the national book award in this bravura follow-up to the pulitzer prize, and national book award-winning #1 new york times bestseller the underground railroad, colson whitehead brilliantly dramatizes another strand of american history through the story of two boys sentenced to a hellish reform school in jim crow-era florida. as the civil rights movement begins to reach the black enclave of frenchtown in segregated tallahassee, elwood curtis takes the words of dr. martin luther king to heart: he is “as good as anyone.” abandoned by his parents, but kept on the straight and narrow by his grandmother, elwood is about to enroll in the local black college. but for a black boy in the jim crow south of the early 1960s, one innocent mistake is enough to destroy the future. elwood is sentenced to a juvenile reformatory called the nickel academy, whose mission statement says it provides “physical, intellectual and moral training” so the delinquent boys in their charge can become “honorable and honest men.” in reality, the nickel academy is a grotesque chamber of horrors where the sadistic staff beats and sexually abuses the students, corrupt officials and locals steal food and supplies, and any boy who resists is likely to disappear “out back.” stunned to find himself in such a vicious environment, elwood tries to hold onto dr. king’s ringing assertion “throw us in jail and we will still love you.” his friend turner thinks elwood is worse than naive, that the world is crooked, and that the only way to survive is to scheme and avoid trouble. the tension between elwood’s ideals and turner’s skepticism leads to a decision whose repercussions will echo down the decades. formed in the crucible of the evils jim crow wrought, the boys’ fates will be determined by what they endured at the nickel academy. based on the real story of a reform school in florida that operated for one hundred and eleven years and warped the lives of thousands of children, the nickel boys is a devastating, driven narrative that showcases a great american novelist writing at the height of his powers. about the nickel boys new york times bestseller national book critics circle award finalist one of time magazine’s 10 best fiction books of the decade winner of the kirkus prize longlisted for the national book award in this bravura follow-up to the pulitzer prize, and national book award-winning #1 new york times bestseller the underground railroad, colson whitehead brilliantly dramatizes another strand of american history through the story of two boys sentenced to a hellish reform school in jim crow-era florida. as the civil rights movement begins to reach the black enclave of frenchtown in segregated tallahassee, elwood curtis takes the words of dr. martin luther king to heart: he is “as good as anyone.” abandoned by his parents, but kept on the straight and narrow by his grandmother, elwood is about to enroll in the local black college. but for a black boy in the jim crow south of the early 1960s, one innocent mistake is enough to destroy the future. elwood is sentenced to a juvenile reformatory called the nickel academy, whose mission statement says it provides “physical, intellectual and moral training” so the delinquent boys in their charge can become “honorable and honest men.” in reality, the nickel academy is a grotesque chamber of horrors where the sadistic staff beats and sexually abuses the students, corrupt officials and locals steal food and supplies, and any boy who resists is likely to disappear “out back.” stunned to find himself in such a vicious environment, elwood tries to hold onto dr. king’s ringing assertion “throw us in jail and we will still love you.” his friend turner thinks elwood is worse than naive, that the world is crooked, and that the only way to survive is to scheme and avoid trouble. the tension between elwood’s ideals and turner’s skepticism leads to a decision whose repercussions will echo down the decades. formed in the crucible of the evils jim crow wrought, the boys’ fates will be determined by what they endured at the nickel academy. based on the real story of a reform school in florida that operated for one hundred and eleven years and warped the lives of thousands of children, the nickel boys is a devastating, driven narrative that showcases a great american novelist writing at the height of his powers. about the nickel boys new york times bestseller national book critics circle award finalist one of time magazine’s 10 best fiction books of the decade winner of the kirkus prize longlisted for the national book award in this bravura follow-up to the pulitzer prize, and national book award-winning #1 new york times bestseller the underground railroad, colson whitehead brilliantly dramatizes another strand of american history through the story of two boys sentenced to a hellish reform school in jim crow-era florida. as the civil rights movement begins to reach the black enclave of frenchtown in segregated tallahassee, elwood curtis takes the words of dr. martin luther king to heart: he is “as good as anyone.” abandoned by his parents, but kept on the straight and narrow by his grandmother, elwood is about to enroll in the local black college. but for a black boy in the jim crow south of the early 1960s, one innocent mistake is enough to destroy the future. elwood is sentenced to a juvenile reformatory called the nickel academy, whose mission statement says it provides “physical, intellectual and moral training” so the delinquent boys in their charge can become “honorable and honest men.” in reality, the nickel academy is a grotesque chamber of horrors where the sadistic staff beats and sexually abuses the students, corrupt officials and locals steal food and supplies, and any boy who resists is likely to disappear “out back.” stunned to find himself in such a vicious environment, elwood tries to hold onto dr. king’s ringing assertion “throw us in jail and we will still love you.” his friend turner thinks elwood is worse than naive, that the world is crooked, and that the only way to survive is to scheme and avoid trouble. the tension between elwood’s ideals and turner’s skepticism leads to a decision whose repercussions will echo down the decades. formed in the crucible of the evils jim crow wrought, the boys’ fates will be determined by what they endured at the nickel academy. based on the real story of a reform school in florida that operated for one hundred and eleven years and warped the lives of thousands of children, the nickel boys is a devastating, driven narrative that showcases a great american novelist writing at the height of his powers. read an excerpt reading guide read an excerpt reading guide read an excerpt reading guide read an excerpt reading guide read an excerpt reading guide listen to a sample from the nickel boys also by colson whitehead see all books by colson whitehead also by colson whitehead see all books by colson whitehead also by colson whitehead see all books by colson whitehead also by colson whitehead see all books by colson whitehead also by colson whitehead see all books by colson whitehead about colson whitehead colson whitehead is the #1 new york times bestselling author of the underground railroad, which in 2016 won the pulitzer prize in fiction and the national book award and was named one of the ten best books of the year… more about colson whitehead about colson whitehead colson whitehead is the #1 new york times bestselling author of the underground railroad, which in 2016 won the pulitzer prize in fiction and the national book award and was named one of the ten best books of the year… more about colson whitehead about colson whitehead colson whitehead is the #1 new york times bestselling author of the underground railroad, which in 2016 won the pulitzer prize in fiction and the national book award and was named one of the ten best books of the year… more about colson whitehead about colson whitehead colson whitehead is the #1 new york times bestselling author of the underground railroad, which in 2016 won the pulitzer prize in fiction and the national book award and was named one of the ten best books of the year… more about colson whitehead about colson whitehead colson whitehead is the #1 new york times bestselling author of the underground railroad, which in 2016 won the pulitzer prize in fiction and the national book award and was named one of the ten best books of the year… more about colson whitehead product details category: historical fiction | literary fiction paperback | $27.00 published by random house large print jul 16, 2019 | 352 pages | 5-1/2 x 8-1/4 | isbn 9781984892249 category: historical fiction | literary fiction hardcover | $24.95 published by doubleday jul 16, 2019 | 224 pages | 5-1/2 x 8-1/4 | isbn 9780385537070 category: historical fiction | literary fiction ebook | $12.99 published by doubleday jul 16, 2019 | 224 pages | 5-1/2 x 8-1/4 | isbn 9780385537087 category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks cd | $35.00 published by random house audio jul 16, 2019 | 420 minutes | isbn 9781984891372 category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks audiobook download | $17.50 published by random house audio jul 16, 2019 | 406 minutes | isbn 9781984891389 people who read the nickel boys also read ‹ › inspired by your browsing history people who read the nickel boys also read inspired by your browsing history praise new york times bestseller winner of the kirkus prize chosen by publishers weekly as one of the 10 best books of the year longlisted for the national book award “a necessary read.” —president barack obama “this is a powerful book by one of america’s great writers. . . . without sentimentality, in as intense and finely crafted a book as you’ll ever read, whitehead tells a story of american history that won’t allow you to see the country in the same way again.” —toronto star “colson whitehead continues to make a classic american genre his own. . . . the narration is disciplined and the sentences plain and sturdy, oars cutting into water. every chapter hits its marks. . . . whitehead comports himself with gravity and care, the steward of painful, suppressed histories; his choices on the page can feel as much ethical as aesthetic. the ordinary language, the clear pane of his prose, lets the stories speak for themselves. . . . whitehead has written novels of horror and apocalypse; nothing touches the grimness of the real stories he conveys here” —the new york times “inspired by a real school in florida, the nickel boys is a haunting narrative that reinforces whitehead’s prowess as a leading voice in american literature.” —time “[the nickel boys] should further cement whitehead as one of his generation’s best.” —entertainment weekly “were whitehead’s only aim to shine an unforgiving light on a redacted chapter of racial terrorism in the american chronicle, that would be achievement enough. what he is doing in his new novel, as in its immediate predecessor, is more challenging than that. . . . he applies a master storyteller’s muscle. . . . the elasticity of time in the nickel boys feels so organic that only when you put the book down do you fully appreciate that its sweep encompasses much of the last century as well as this one. . . . a writer like whitehead, who challenges the complacent assumption that we even fathom what happened in our past, has rarely seemed more essential.” —the new york times book review “a masterpiece squared, rooted in history and american mythology and, yet, painfully topical in its visions of justice and mercy erratically denied . . . a great american novel.” —maureen corrigan, npr.org “whitehead’s brilliant examination of america’s history of violence is a stunning novel of impeccable language and startling insight.” —publishers weekly, starred review “whitehead’s magnetic characters exemplify stoicism and courage, and each supremely craftedscene smolders and flares with injustice and resistance, building to a staggering revelation. inspired by an actual school, whitehead’s potently concentrated drama pinpoints the brutality and insidiousness of jim crow racism with compassion and protest. . . . a scorching work.” —booklist, starred review “[a] stunning new novel. . . . the understated beauty of his writing, combined with the disquieting subject matter, creates a kind of dissonance that chills the reader. whitehead has long had a gift for crafting unforgettable characters, and elwood proves to be one of his best. . . . the final pages of the book are a heartbreaking distillation of the story that preceded them; it’s a perfect ending to a perfect novel. the nickel boys is a beautiful, wrenching act of witness, a painful remembrance of an ‘infinite brotherhood of broken boys,’ and it proves beyond a shadow of a doubt that whitehead is one of the most gifted novelists in america today.” —npr “magnificent. . . . whitehead’s prose is meticulous; he nimbly shifts between the 1960s and present day, creating a fully fleshed-out picture of violence and (in)justice.” —buzzfeed “colson whitehead’s follow-up to the underground railroad is devastating and powerful, a harrowing novelization on another dark aspect of american history. . . . never didactic, but always illuminating—even in those darkest of places in our collective story—the nickel boys is a brilliant, horrifying look into the legacy of jim crow, and the ways in which racism and oppression don’t exist in defiance to the american dream, but rather as its fuel.” —nylon “[the nickel boys’s] dialogue, the efficient character sketches and the unobtrusive but always-advancing plot are evidence of mature ability . . . spry and animated and seamed with dark humor . . . [with] a dazzling final twist that mr. whitehead stages with such casual skill that one only begins to unpack its meanings well after the book has ended. . . . the excellence of the nickel boys carries an added feeling of hope because it’s evidence of a gradual, old-fashioned artistic progression that fewer and fewer writers are allowed the time to pursue. . . . the nickel boys demonstrate the versatile gifts of a writer who is rounding into mastery. the impression left is that mr. whitehead can succeed at any kind of book he takes on. he has made himself one of the finest novelists in america.” —the wall street journal “whitehead’s new novel . . . is in many ways a continuation of his reassessment of african american history. but the nickel boys is no mere sequel . . . it’s a surprisingly different kind of novel. . . . whitehead reveals the clandestine atrocities of nickel academy with just enough restraint to keep us in a state of wincing dread. . . . it shreds our easy confidence in the triumph of goodness and leaves in its place a hard and bitter truth about the ongoing american experiment.” —the washington post “again [whitehead is] wrestling with american history’s reverberations. . . . since its moral concern is multigenerational anguish, the sense of mourning in the nickel boys is subvisceral—not detached, but restrained. . . . we are called to remember, ‘the past is never dead. it’s not even past.'” —o: the oprah magazine “possibly the single most anticipated novel of the year.” —los angeles times “a powerful meditation on suffering and injustice. . . . his subject could not be more demanding, but whitehead’s writing is spare and stately. he handles elwood’s and turner’s suffering—and questions—gently. and he holds the reader carefully. . . . for the darkest of tales, that is the most a writer can do.” —winnipeg free press “whitehead’s signature knack for creating unforgettable characters and spinning compelling stories out of even the darkest places is on display once again—and while it’s not always an easy story to read, we’d venture to say it’s essential.” —town and country “if you thought colson whitehead’s pulitzer prize-winning novel the underground railroad was a tour de force, wait until you get your hands on the nickel boys.” —harper’s bazaar “the nickel boys is straight-ahead realism, distinguished by its clarity and its open conversation with other black writers: it quotes from or evokes the work of langston hughes, james baldwin, ralph ellison and more. whitehead has made an overt bid to stand in their company—to write a novel that’s memorable, and teachable, for years to come. the nickel boys is its fulfilment.” —usa today “the nickel boys is a strictly realist work, albeit still ripe with whitehead’s signature deadpan wit. . . . the heart of the nickel boys is this extended dialogue between elwood and turner . . . [and] often feels like whitehead’s conversation with both the idealistic forerunners of the civil rights generation and, by implication, the woke youth of today. like perhaps his single greatest influence, ralph ellison, whitehead negotiates a tightrope walk between the need to depict the experience of race and racism and a stubborn individualistic resistance to the claims of collective identity.” —slate “[whitehead’s] prose here is elegant yet straightforward . . . these short sentences spur the action on, creating a pace that’s almost as breath-taking as the novel’s depiction of cruelty. . . . whitehead’s novel is certainly revelatory, but more for the ways in which it traces these atrocities to the past and present, weaving tragedy into multiple lifetimes. the nickel boys isn’t just a testament to systemic racism; it’s an archaeology of pain.” —a.v. club “[the nickel boys is] a marvellous play between the real situation and a novelistic artifice—one which, in the end, proves to be inherent in the human story. . . . this is a heartbreakingly good novel. its excellence doesn’t lie in the attitude it takes to a social problem. . . . rather, this is a book which should last because of the elegant refinement of its treatment, and the harmonious and deeply affecting balance it strikes between real-life conditions, and the requirements of the finest and most penetrating art.” —the spectator “[a] remarkable novel.” —roxane gay, bestselling author of bad feminist “a gripping and brilliant novel based on a true story about a boys’ reformatory school in florida in the 1960s. whitehead is one of the most daring and gifted authors writing these days, and i will never miss one of his books.”—elizabeth gilbert, author of city of girls “[whitehead] is a splendidly talented writer, with more range than any other american novelist currently working—he can be funny, lyrical, satirical, earnest—whatever is needed by the work.” —george saunders, author of lincoln in the bardo, awards ala alex award winner 2020 kirkus prize for fiction winner 2019 los angeles times book prize finalist 2019 national book critics circle awards finalist 2019 aspen words literary prize longlist 2020 related articles looking for more great reads? discover book picks from the ceo of penguin random house us close download hi res close the nickel boys category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks category: historical fiction | literary fiction | audiobooks the nickel boys buy now hardcover jul 16, 2019 buy paperback jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9781984892249 buy ebook jul 16, 2019 | isbn 9780385537087 buy cd jul 16, 2019 | 420 minutes buy audiobook download jul 16, 2019 | 406 minutes buy see all formats (4) + close back to top connect sign up for news about books, authors, and more from penguin random house stay in touch about news careers contact us faq email preferences terms of use privacy policy do not sell my personal info resources shopping & shipping faq for educators penguinrandomhouse.biz media queries subrights permissions speakers bureau company reads global.penguinrandomhouse.com © 2020 penguin random house books series about us visit other sites in the penguin random house network brightly raise kids who love to read taste an online magazine for today’s home cook litflash the ebooks you want at the lowest prices read it forward read it first. pass it on! stay in touch sign up please enter a valid email address we are experiencing technical difficulties. please try again later. by clicking sign up, i acknowledge that i have read and agree to penguin random house's privacy policy and terms of use.