wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » how to choose the best domain registrar in 2020 (compared) how to choose the best domain registrar in 2020 (compared) last updated on january 2nd, 2020 by editorial staff 257 shares share tweet share pin are you looking for the best domain registrars of 2020? domain registrars are the companies responsible for registering and managing domain names for all websites around the world. choosing the right domain name registrar is very important because there are so many ways to get tricked. in this article, we will show you how to choose the best domain registrar by comparing their pros and cons. bonus tip: if you want to register a domain name for free, then skip to the #2 provider in our list. here is a quick overview of things you will learn in this guide. what is a domain name registrar what domain registrars really do? how to choose the right domain registrar things to watch out for when choosing a domain name registrar best domain name registrars what is a domain name registrar a domain name registrar is a company that allows you to purchase and register domain names. all domain name registrars are accreditated by icann (internet corporation for assigned names and numbers), a non-profit organization responsible for managing domain names. domain names make the internet easy to use for everyone. without domain names, you’ll have to enter long strings of numbers called ip addresses to visit websites. domain names solve this problem by allowing websites to choose addresses using easy to remember words, for example, wpbeginner.com or google.com. to learn more, see our beginner’s guide on what is a domain name and how does it work. to make domain names widely available, icann allows companies to apply for accreditation and become a domain registrar. these companies then compete with each other to sell domain name licenses which allows you to get better service and tools when you purchase your domain name. what domain registrars really do? all domain name records are stored in a centralized database called registry. for a domain name to be recognized, it needs to be added into that database with all related information about it. a domain name registrar is given permission by icann to make changes to your domain name’s information in the database on your behalf. a domain name registrar also provides easy to use tools to make those changes using your web browser. that being said, let’s take a look at how to easily choose the best domain registrar for your website address. how to choose the right domain registrar not all domain registrars have the license to sell all domain name extensions. for example, some domain registrars can only sell domain names with country-specific extensions (like .io, .in, or .ly). each domain registrar may offer different services along with the domain name registration. some registrar may offer cheap domains as their promotional offer while others may give free add-ons to attract customers. when choosing the best domain name registrar, we look at the following four criteria: 1. pricing and registration period the first thing you want to check is the domain name prices. for example, some domain registrars may offer lower prices for the first year registration, but their renewal prices can be different and significantly higher. you can register a domain name for a minimum period of 1 year. however, some companies may require a higher registration period like 2 years minimum. you can register a domain name for up to 10 years at a time. if you are buying a new web address, then we recommend registering your domain name for 1 year. you can turn on automatic renewal, so your domain does not expire. you also need to check for any additional fees for domain transfers, renewal, and other charges. 2. domain transfers domain names can be moved from one domain registrar to another. normally, you wouldn’t need to transfer your domain name right away, but if you’re unhappy with your domain registrar, then this option should be easily available. the first thing you need to keep in mind is that you cannot transfer a domain name during the first 60 days of the registration. this initial period is decided by icann. after that, you are allowed to move it to any other registrar that you want. most domain registrars make it easy to transfer domain names without any extra fee. however, some may try to make it complicated or charge an extra fee. make sure that you review the domain transfer policy before you buy a domain name from a registrar. 3. domain expiration policies domain names are registered for a specific duration. you can renew your domain registration before its expiration date. however, if you forgot to renew your domain name, then it expires and anyone can register it. for businesses, this means someone can take over their domain name. to make sure that this doesn’t happen, you can set up automatic renewals for your domain name. even if you use the automatic renewal feature, it is a good idea to check your domain registrars expiration policy. some domain registrars offer a grace period even after the expiration. this grace period allows you to renew your expired domain name. we have heard dozens of horror stories of business owners losing their domain name because their credit card expired, and their registrar did not have a grace period. this is one of the many reasons why it’s extremely important to choose the right domain name registrar. 4. add-on services you may also want to review what other services are offered by your domain registrar. while you may not need these services right now, it is good to know that they have them. these add-on services may include domain privacy, domain parking, extended expiration protection, and more. some domain registrars may even sell wordpress hosting service, email hosting service, website builders, email marketing services, and more. top 3 things to watch out for when choosing a domain name registrar due to the competition in the domain registration business, you will come across companies with some very attractive offers. while these offers may look good, there may be some downsides that you may not notice right away. following are a few things to watch out for when choosing a domain name registrar. 1. add-on pricing some domain name registrars can automatically pre-check add-on services when you purchase a domain name. if you don’t uncheck those options, then this would increase your bill significantly. typically a .com domain name should not cost you more than $14.99 / year. if it does, then it should raise a red flag. you must pay attention to the checkout page and uncheck any add-on services that you don’t need. on top of that, it’s always a good idea to double-check the total amount you are charged in your credit card statements. 2. bad user experience most domain registrars try to make their website easy to use, so they can keep you as a customer. however, some domain registrars do the exact opposite. this would make it difficult for you to change your domain name settings. you will need to do that if you wanted to transfer domain to a new host, or a new domain registrar. the easiest way to look for this is by searching for domain registrar’s online reviews. keep in mind, that very few happy customers leave online reviews, so it’s important to read the reviews thoroughly. 3. hidden fees you may also need to look for the hidden costs and fees when choosing a domain registrar. some domain registrars may have special offers for cheaper domains for first-time registrations. most beginners don’t realize it, but the renewal cost of the domain are often quite different and even higher. all good domain registrars make it easy to transfer your domain name to a different company. however, some will put an additional fee. that being said, let’s take a look at some of the best domain name registrars, and how they compare against each other. best domain registrars to buy a domain name choosing the right domain registrar saves you from possible future problems. it not only helps you protect your brand name but also makes it easy to move your website to a new host or service provider. based on the criteria we discussed earlier, these are the top domain registrars to buy your domain name from. 1. domain.com started in 2000, domain.com is one of the most popular domain name registrar on the planet. they allow you to register all top level domain name extensions (tlds) and even dozens of country code top level domains (cctlds). domain.com has a quick domain search tool that you can use for your domain name research. their search also shows you premium domains as well. you get access to all domain management tools that you would expect from a top domain registrar including private registration, whois privacy protection, free whois, bulk registration, easy transfers, easy dns management, email account, and other additional services. you can even purchase web hosting from them if you like. if you have any questions, then you can contact their helpful support via live chat or email. domain.com is offering wpbeginner readers 25% off discount on domain products. all you have to do is either click on the link from our website, or use our domain.com coupon code: nameboy if you only need to register a domain name without web hosting, then we highly recommend domain.com. however, if you’re looking to start a blog or website, then option #2 might be better for you because you can get a free domain name. 2. bluehost bluehost is one of the largest hosting companies in the world, and they are an official wordpress hosting partner. as part of their web hosting service, they also offer domain name registration. bluehost is offering wpbeginner users a free domain name, ssl certificate, and a discount on web hosting which is a perfect deal for anyone looking to make a website. basically, you can get started for $2.75 per month, and get a free domain name. → click here to claim this exclusive bluehost offer ← 3. hostgator hostgator is another popular company offering website owners a one-stop shop for domain names and shared website hosting. they offer a nice selection of extensions, domain privacy, and easy to use dns management tools. they have an easy to use domain search tool that helps you quickly find a suitable domain name for your business. their domain management area is beginner friendly and well documented which makes it easy to transfer domains if you need to. aside from domain name and hosting, they have also introduced a brand new drag & drop website builder called gator. they’re offering free domain name and hosting with all of their website builder plans. 4. godaddy godaddy is one of the oldest and most popular domain registration company. they manage more than 77 million domain names for over 18 million customers. they offer a wide variety of popular domain name extensions to choose from. their prices are highly competitive, and you may even get a significant discount on the first year of your domain’s registration. godaddy has a powerful easy to use domain management interface which allows you to transfer your domain name or change its settings. related: see 7 best godaddy alternatives that are cheaper and more reliable. 5. namecheap namecheap is another top domain registrar on the market. they have a powerful domain search tool that helps you find the right domain name and makes suggestions when your preferred domain name is not available. they also offer domain add-on services like domain privacy and premium dns. their domain management area is clean, but it’s not as user-friendly as godaddy’s new interface. one nice thing about namecheap is that they offer free domain privacy with all their domain names. we used to use namecheap but ended up transferring our main domains to other providers because we simply had too many issues logging into their domain management panel. 6. dreamhost dreamhost is another popular domain name registrar and web hosting service provider. they are offering our readers a free domain name with domain privacy included for anyone signing up for their shared unlimited hosting plan. you can also register a domain name without buying hosting through them for $8.99 / year which also includes free private registration. dreamhost offers 400+ tlds and comes with all domain management tools that you can expect from a large domain provider like dreamhost. 7. shopify shopify is a popular ecommerce platform which allows anyone to easily start an ecommerce store without any technical skills. they are also a popular domain name registrar and allow you to quickly set up a store using your custom domain name. shopify also comes with a powerful business name generator which helps you pick up an available domain name for your business. you can move your domain name away to any other service if you want. one downside is that they don’t offer email addresses for domain names. instead, you can use email forwarders or use a third-party email service like g suite or office365. bonus premium domain registration 8. buydomains buydomains allow you to search for premium domain names matching your search terms. premium domain names are domain names that are already registered but are available for sale from third-party. these domains are often more memorable, shorter, and brandable which is why they are more expensive. if you cannot find a suitable domain name, and you have the budget, then you can use buydomains to search for a premium domain name. final thoughts – best domain registrar there are literally hundreds of other domain registrars and resellers in the market that we have not included in the list including hover, google domains, tucows, 1&1 ionos, network solutions, etc. the reason is because they all primarily offer the same services, and we want to make it easy for our users to pick the best and most secure domain registrar without causing choice paralysis. in our opinion, domain.com is the best domain registrar in the market for small businesses as well as large companies. they offer the most reasonable pricing and has all the features. if you’re looking to build a website, then you can get a free domain name from both bluehost and hostgator when you signup for their web hosting. we hope this article helped you learn how to choose the best domain registrar for your business. you may also want to see our guide on how to get a free business email address for your website. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 257 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 23 commentsleave a reply jeeson says: mar 3, 2020 at 12:20 pm thank you for your article, helped me a lot reply wpbeginner support says: mar 4, 2020 at 8:48 am you’re welcome, glad our guide was helpful reply mike says: jan 12, 2020 at 12:52 pm if i use one of the hosting sites that provide the domain. do i own the domain name or do they? i don’t want to be trapped into their service i’ve not owning my domain. reply wpbeginner support says: jan 13, 2020 at 11:40 am you would own your domain name and be able to transfer it after the 60-day transfer restriction that all domains are currently under. reply merion rebeca says: dec 2, 2019 at 7:16 am thank you for your article. i had some confusion. after reading your article it helps me to clear my ideas. reply wpbeginner support says: dec 4, 2019 at 10:19 am glad our article was helpful reply julian says: sep 30, 2019 at 2:29 am the promo code for domain.com doesn’t work any more . do you have a new one ? reply wpbeginner support says: sep 30, 2019 at 9:20 am the coupon code should still work at the moment, you may want to ensure there are no typos or you didn’t copy a space before the code when pasting it in reply umair asghar says: aug 30, 2019 at 10:52 am this article is very helpfull for choosing right domain reply wpbeginner support says: aug 30, 2019 at 3:21 pm thank you, glad our article was helpful reply amy says: jun 14, 2019 at 11:07 am thank you so much for the domain.com code! just bought my domain name! have a great day! reply wpbeginner support says: jun 17, 2019 at 10:53 am you’re welcome, glad the discount could be useful reply helen mitchell says: may 5, 2019 at 4:45 pm thanks for the article. i’ve had some problems with godaddy and i’m thinking of switching to hostgator. the customer support at godaddy is not impressive – i rarely get through and they will add things to my cart that i don’t need or want. i already have office360 and don’t need it again for e-mail. plus they limit email accounts. reply wpbeginner support says: may 6, 2019 at 2:27 pm glad our article could be helpful reply betty hahn says: may 2, 2019 at 1:54 pm hello, i just opened a real estate investment business. i am new to domain/hosting. can someone recommend a domain for beginners? i also need to set up a email for my business. thank you! reply wpbeginner support says: may 3, 2019 at 10:31 am for selecting a domain you would want to take a look at our article here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/tips-and-tools-to-pick-the-best-domain-for-your-blog/ and for a custom email we have a guide for that here: https://www.wpbeginner.com/beginners-guide/how-to-create-a-free-business-email-address-in-5-minutes-step-by-step/ reply dan says: may 2, 2019 at 10:18 am isn’t it interesting how life can be? i’ve never had any issue with namecheap for almost ten years now but you did. godaddy is cool with domain and not their hosting services but what i don’t like is the lack of 24/7 live chat support system. anyways, good collection you have there! reply wpbeginner support says: may 2, 2019 at 11:12 am thanks for sharing your experiences with these providers and glad you like our article reply dennis says: mar 27, 2019 at 1:00 am on the host, does a host provide an ssl certificate even when the domain name is registered with a different domain registrar? another question about bluehost: does bluehost offer domain privacy options and if yes, what would be the price of your discounted offer of $2.75/month in case one required that they offer domain privacy or does the package still come with domain privacy as an option to choose from? reply wpbeginner support says: mar 27, 2019 at 11:23 am you would want to reach out to the host, in this case bluehost, and they can let you know the specifics on how they handle ssl and their current pricing for domain privacy reply dennis says: mar 27, 2019 at 3:13 pm okay, i will see what i’ll do about it. thanks though and do have a great time. reply marco says: jul 30, 2018 at 8:44 am we use namecheap.com not only the good price but for the dns management panel and moreover for the support 24/7. we used rarely but when we had the needs they were there, also the weekend and at late hours during the week. for an agency this is very important. reply kingsley felix says: jul 23, 2018 at 7:46 am domain or hosting which one are you comparing? reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin seedprod jump start your website with viral coming soon pages. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) designevo coupon get 25% off on designevo premium logo making service. monsterinsights coupon get 50% off monsterinsights, the best google analytics plugin for wordpress. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.