australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 16:57 edt the coronavirus bill's anti-layoff provisions companies can reduce hours instead of doing layoffs, and the government will pay part of the missing wages. by arthur delaney, huffpost us the big coronavirus relief bill congress passed this week will deliver cash payments to practically everyone in america and supercharge unemployment insurance for people who lose their jobs due to the pandemic. but it’s also got provisions to prevent people from losing their jobs in the first place, so that their employers remain their main source of income. the bill creates a $350 billion “paycheck protection program” that essentially pays small businesses not to lay off their workers for the duration of the outbreak. it’s supposed to work by lending money to firms to cover their payroll and other costs for eight weeks, and then forgiving the loan if the firms avoid layoffs. it’s a huge part of the bill. the unemployment compensation, by contrast, amounts to about $260 billion, according to an estimate by the committee for a responsible federal budget, while the rebate payments to households amount to $290 billion. employers who lose business or are ordered to shut down because of the outbreak can also get a refundable tax credit for part of their payroll costs. the house passed the bill on friday in the wake of an unprecedented surge of unemployment claims. businesses have shuttered as local governments order social distancing to limit the spread of the virus, which has infected tens of thousands and already killed more than 1,000. once the president signs the bill into law, even more people will be eligible for unemployment, including people who need to quit to take care of a family member or because they have to quarantine themselves. for firms that can’t avoid reducing payroll, there’s another option besides layoffs. it’s an existing program called short-time compensation or work sharing. instead of laying off a portion of its workers and the government replacing their wages, a firm can keep its workers, but cut their hours and let the state unemployment agency pay a portion of the missing wages. dean baker, a labor economist with the progressive center for economic and policy research and a visiting professor at the university of utah, said keeping workers attached to their employees should be a top priority. “from the workers’ standpoint, it means they have a job to go back to and that they can continue to receive work-related benefits, most importantly health insurance,” baker said in an email. “that’s a big deal right now, and even if you can get cobra, we don’t want to force tens of millions of people to have to deal with their insurers right now to stay covered.” the coronavirus aid, relief, and economic security act pays the full cost of short-time compensation benefits for the rest of this year. but it’s not clear how many businesses will make use of the program, as it has existed for a while and is not widely used. not all states even have programs. enrollment peaked in 2009 with 288,618 workers receiving partial unemployment benefits to offset their reduced hours. it’s important for employers to avoid laying off their workers, baker said, so that they have a ready workforce when strict social distancing is less of a necessity and business picks up. “we will have a total disaster if, when this ends, employers try to start up and suddenly have to hire and train much of their workforce,” baker said. “i am amazed that this did not seem to be more of a concern to congress when they worked out their bill, although the small business loan system is pretty much along the right lines.” huffpost readers: are you a business owner looking to take advantage of the paycheck protection program or short-time compensation? tell us about it — email arthur@huffpost.com. please include your phone number if you’re willing to be interviewed. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction arthur delaney senior reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus unemployment budget, tax and economy unemployment benefits trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.