search join our facebook community the blogger’s guide to online marketing “you see ninja, i’ve got this blog, and the traffic’s growing, but it’s just not making any money – can you help?” if this sounds like you, i’m glad you stopped by… discover how to turn your passion into profit today turning your passion, your blog, into something truly profitable can be quite a challenge. you’re following all the marketing advice you can find online, implementing ‘proven’ promotional tactics. you’re scrambling for the latest books, ebooks, courses, consulting… forget the scattergun approach. transform your blog into a real business the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog is a comprehensive, 31 chapter blueprint for your blog’s ongoing profitability – right from the ground up. backed by an extensive library of practical templates, printable worksheets, and in-practice example documents, this kit delivers all you need to make your blog turn a profit now, and over the long term. if you’re serious about generating income from your blog, you’ll find this product indispensable. a blueprint for a profitable blog the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog has two parts (and a bonus): 1. the 31 chapter ebook this clear, practical ebook includes 31 chapters focused on practical profit-generating strategies. each detailed, insightful chapter encapsulates the web marketing ninja’s wisdom, honesty, and extensive experience creating profitable and sustainable online brands. there’s also plenty of examples and activities for you to tackle. conduct a brand audit understand your target audience create customer personas understand the competition write your elevator pitch conduct the “three-second” test ensure your blog is on-brand edit your content create a framework for measuring success get email-enabled get set to a/b test conduct an seo audit build your core support team understand your monetization options understand advertising understand affiliate programs organize and plan products create a launch plan master the campaign manage a launch price products understand discounting define your sales funnel make pr contacts promote someone else’s product run a competition survey your customers run an advertising campaign understand the long tail know when to stop marketing review your strategy together, these chapters guide you on a step-by-step journey to online marketing success. 2. the comprehensive resource library your downloadable, practical resource library contains more than 21 documents, templates, worksheets, and examples to help you put the ninja’s advice into practice immediately. it includes: sample sales pages performance tracking template measurement framework campaign planning proforma affiliate performance measurement tool customer life-cycle analysis example joint venture email template presentation example survey plan example launch plan and email templates testing templates plus many more get a head-start on the path to blog profitability with these usable, hands-on resources. 3. bonus: 1 hour webinar recording early buyers of this kit were invited to a q&a webinar with chris garrett, darren rowse and the web marketing ninja where they answered frequently asked questions on the topic of making money blogging. you’ll get access to a recording of this webinar which goes for around 70 minutes to listen to in your own time. who’s this kit for? the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog is designed for bloggers who want to get more out of their blogs. more readers, more advertisers, and more profits. you may be: just starting to think about monetizing your blog seeking to leverage your blog’s audience to boost revenue eager to try new marketing techniques, but unsure where to start hoping to create an income that sustains your blog—and your lifestyle if you’re the kind of blogger who wants to build their blog to its full potential, the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog is the guide you’ve been waiting for. the ninja behind the kit the web marketing ninja is the most mysterious of the problogger team. like a true ninja, he uses a combination of skill, judgment, discipline, and more than ten years of industry experience to drive his approach or online marketing. the web marketing ninja helped me sell my first million dollars’ worth of my own products. he’s helped launch three multi-million dollar digital start-ups. and he successfully launched a million-dollar campaign in a company’s worst month ever. all up, he’s launched over 50 online products, all of them profitable. with a reputation for professionalism and profits, it’s no surprise that the web marketing ninja is practical, to-the-point, and applies a strong set of values to everything he does. he’s delighted to be able to help bloggers build lasting businesses with proven digital marketing techniques. a word from darren about the ninja… on that warm november morning in 2002 when i hit publish on my first ever blog post i had no idea that i was doing something that would shape my life for the next decade and beyond. that first blog did ok and i began to explore ways of making it sustainable with a few adsense ads. that worked out well so i added another blog to that first domain… and another… and another and in the coming years i began to realise that i was in fact a professional blogger. my hobby had become something of a business. it was a fun ride but as i look back on it now – i wish i’d been just a little more strategic in those early days because what i ended up with was profitable but… a bit of a mess. there came a time for me when i realised that i needed to take this hobby business to the next level and to do so i needed to get more strategic. i also needed to find a mentor to help me with that task. and into my life the web marketing ninja stealthily crept. there have been a number of factors that have helped me to turn my hobby business into a proper one.perhaps the biggest of these was a change of attitude. if you want your blog to be a business you need to start treating it as one. but one of the other big factors was the ninja. don’t be put off by his stealthy ninja suit and mask – once you get past that you’ll find a warm heart and a sharp mind. he’s literally helped me to add 0’s to the end of my revenue and more importantly to me – he’s become a friend. i trust he’ll do the same for you too. download your kit today the blogger’s guide to online marketing kits comes to you in an easy to download bundle – 23 files in all. the ebook, 21 templates, examples and documents plus a file with details of how to get access to the 70 minute webinar recording. this is our most comprehensive product yet and retails for $49.99 usd – a price that could pay for itself many times over. money-back guarantee if you’re not satisfied with the blogger’s guide to online marketing—31 steps to a profitable blog after 60 days, let me know and i’ll refund your money. that’s how confident i am that this is a resource that will help you create a truly sustainable blog. recently at the job board email marketer - reach a big audience and make a positive impact expert tech blog writer finance or seo specialist writer wanted fitness & lifestyle bloggers wanted! [european] content writer for adult toy website problogger top articles how to start a blog how to create great blog content how to find readers for your blog 7 strategies to build community on your blog how to make money blogging 5 ways to make your blogging life easier top resources 31 days to build a better blog problogger’s guide to your first week of blogging problogger’s guide to blogging for your business blog wise: how to do more with less the blogger’s guide to online marketing recommended blogging resources about blog podcast ebooks resources jobs courses speaking privacy terms contact copyright © 2020 problogger.com · all rights reserved