home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. home top 10 apps take down request photography accessories about us uncategorized the advancement of technology through the years: smartphones uncategorized the advancement of technology through the years: smartphones by shashank jain - february 17, 2020 169 0 - advertisment - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp think about the launch of a product, any product. now think of all the changes that have been followed through overtime in order to make sure that the product grows to be the best it can be, while still being in touch with its core technology. we’ve seen the growth in video games, laptops, recording systems, and even mobile phones. however, none of the growth would be deemed valuable without repair companies like zee mobi solutions. as technology has advanced, so has the skill set needed to perform the repairs of mobile phones and laptops. https://zeemobisolutions.com/ is capable of giving you precisely that. starting from the invention of a wireless device that allowed you to simply connect with people away from you in the form of a comically large box, mobile phones have grown to be smartphones that are capable of doing much more than just a call. originally, it wasn’t just the phones that were lacking services. mobile phone connectivity used to be available in only a handful of areas and as time went by and the demand for a cellular connection increased, so did the cell service. now, in modern times, we have the availability of mobile service globally and even mobile data which allows us to access the internet at any given time. the quality of the voice calls grew day-by-day, slowly advancing into video calls through different portals of social media. now, you could sit in your office, give your friend a video call, talk about life and even hang up, all within the span of 10 minutes. however, every pro has its con, and in the case of smartphones, the answer lies within the durability of the same. the first few mobile phones that took over the world by a storm were some of the most sturdy and durable phones that ever came to existence. however, these problems come with due reason. as smartphones came into existence and touchscreens became more and more common, so did the problems. touch screens were an unexpected invention and as others began to recreate it, they began to notice how vulnerable it made the programming of the phone as well. beginning from the invention of the iphone, even now, the highest level of control and comfort in a touchscreen continues to lie in apple products, however, the phones are liable to damage as well. water damage, lcd damage, battery issues, mobile’s speaker issues, and even charging cables issues grew to become more and more common day by day. thus, as the technology of mobile phones outgrew the rest, the same was expected out of all the surrounding industries. companies like zee mobi solutions that are centered around the repair services of mobile phones and laptops propelled, working to grow and provide services whenever needed, be it a simple mobile battery replacement in melbourne or even a screen repair. smartphones today are nothing without technical support. most smartphones tend to last a total of 2-3 years on average and to be fair, judging by the number of advancements that can occur over the span of a day, keeping a phone for any longer simply puts you behind the rest. besides, smartphones are developing to become the ideal replacement for laptops. with business calls, trips and even projects available at a simple touch, mobile phones are vital for the growth of a company. needless to say, they’re also the first access point for social media where most of today’s market resides. thanks to smartphones, we’ve been able to see the highest advancement in the development of technology over the past 2 decades, and yet, the future awaits our arrival! - advertisement - share facebook twitter pinterest whatsapp previous articletop 5 best scheduling apps for for better time management on iphone next articleiphone not connecting to internet – how to solve it shashank jain shashank jain, founder of iphone-s, a young and energetic entrepreneur has always been fond of technology. his liking for technology made him go for engineering in computers. during his studies, he learned & worked on different computer languages & os including hbcd, linux, etc. he also has a keen interest in ethical hacking. leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. must read chatroulette apps for android & ios anshi - modified date: march 19, 2020 0 full guide on satisfactory save game location anshi - modified date: march 18, 2020 0 how to use cxbx emulator – way to play on cxbx ashish lavania - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 how cryptocurrency works: a complete guide by hedgespots anshi - modified date: march 14, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? shashank jain - modified date: march 7, 2020 0 - advertisement - sponsored postshashank jain - march 7, 2020 0 apple airpods review – is it best true wireless earbuds? it’s perfectly normal to think that apple doesn’t make mistakes when it comes to technology. however, they do. when first... read more uncategorizedshashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote your brand, products or services, you are missing out on... read more must read itunes errorshashank jain - february 2, 2016 1 how tо ѕоlvе itunеѕ errоr 54 & errоr 50 how tо ѕоlvе itunеѕ errоr 54 & errоr 50... read more apps for mothershashank jain - february 24, 2018 0 top 10 ios smart thermometers to measure body/environment temperature the thermometer is a device that becomes more advanced... read more trending tech 8 amazing yoga and meditation apps for iphone users shashank jain - december 13, 2017 0 top 4 pocket wod free app for ipad/ iphone – crossfit app shashank jain - january 7, 2017 0 top 6 nature & wildlife mobile apps shashank jain - november 20, 2016 0 - advertisement - you might also likerelated recommended to you uncategorized 6 email marketing trends that make it a must-use marketing strategy if you are not using email marketing to promote... shashank jain - march 5, 2020 0 read more uncategorized top 5 best scheduling apps for for better time management on iphone today, in this fast-moving world, more and more people... shashank jain - february 4, 2020 0 read more uncategorized best iphone storage cleaning apps for 2020 there is nothing in the world more frustrating than... shashank jain - january 30, 2020 0 read more uncategorized how to keep track of self employment expense and income if you're self-employed but new to self employment, then... shashank jain - january 4, 2020 0 read more © copyright 2018 - iphone-s.com factspress