looks like you’re using a browser we don’t support. to improve your visit to our site, take a minute and upgrade your browser. close latest politics culture magazine climate books photography newsletter subscribe donate about advertise contact press jobs rss masthead privacy subscriber services menu magazinesubscribesign in two weeks in an oligarchy a 14-day tour through government malice, open stupidity, and capitalist excess by j.c. pan subscribe includes unlimited access for less than $2 a month darling, let’s do coronavirus in the hamptons this year by kate aronoff protecting native elders in a pandemic by nick martin the climate crisis will be just as shockingly abrupt by melody schreiber why politicians can’t stop talking about “folks” by john patrick leary the deranged push to get americans back to work by osita nwanevu the other latif and the radiolab problem by josephine livingstone america’s eldercare system is a tinderbox by j.c. pan america’s diseased politics the republicans are confronting the coronavirus with nihilism—and the democrats are responding with impotence. by david roth how andrew cuomo became a media darling by alex shephard tnr podcasts: an emergency decades in the making by the new republic the ethical failures of modern architecture by kate wagner give me capitalism or give me death by nick martin against productivity in a pandemic why are we being told—by bosses, by fitness apps, by ourselves—to optimize this “new” time to get things done? by nick martin what happened to jordan peterson? a philosopher, a medical crisis, and a mystery by lindsay beyerstein the cult of the shining city embraces the plague by jared yates sexton what climate grief taught me about the coronavirus by mary annaïse heglar right-wing ghouls with graduate degrees take on the pandemic by libby watson toward an economic democracy by christopher mackin the un-american hoda muthana left the u.s. to join isis. now she wants to return home to stand trial, but the trump administration won’t let her. she is a test case for the future of birthright citizenship. by saul elbein support independent journalism unlimited access for less than $2 a monthsubscribe now tnr newsletters. must reads. 5 days a week.sign up now copyright 2020 © the new republic. all rights reserved.privacy policy