english 日本語 deutsch english español português français contact sales log in get hubspot free home software software free hubspot crm all your contacts and companies, 100% free. marketing hub all-in-one marketing software, starting at $0/month. sales hub all-in-one sales software, starting at $0/month. service hub all-in-one customer service software, starting at $0/month. app marketplace find hubspot apps for the tools and software you use to run your business. pricing resources resources blog read marketing, sales, agency, and customer success blog content. customer stories hear from the businesses that use hubspot to grow better every day. developers create apps and custom integrations for businesses using hubspot. ebooks, guides & more get access to hubspot’s most popular marketing resources. onboarding & services find training and consulting services to help you thrive with hubspot. research & reports get up-to-date research and data on hot business trends. free courses & certifications take courses on the latest business trends, taught by industry experts. what is inbound? get a primer on how inbound helps your business grow better. customer support get help if you have questions about using hubspot software. partners partners hire a partner find a partner in our global community of service providers who can help you grow. partner with us explore our sales, agency, and app partnership programs. about about company about us contact us management team board of directors careers news hubspot news press resources speakers investors investor relations get hubspot free log in marketing sales service website subscribe subscribe to our blog stay up to date with the latest marketing, sales, and service tips and news. subscribe via email subscribe on slack subscribe via email marketing sales service website email address we're committed to your privacy. hubspot uses the information you provide to us to contact you about our relevant content, products, and services. you may unsubscribe from these communications at any time. for more information, check out our privacy policy. back to other options thank you! you have been subscribed. get hubspot free sales | 3 min read the 4 most common sales org structure [+ pros/cons] written by emma brudner @emmajs24 the structure of a sales force has significant bearing on its success. for example, a rep used to selling to a given region might flounder when asked to concentrate on just one industry nationwide. if each of your company's products require deep and specific technical knowledge, it might not make sense to have reps sell all products by territory. it's simply not true that sales talent translates into all situations. take a software representative who sells exclusively to manufacturing companies, and ask them to start selling hardware across all verticals. they're probably not going to be as good at one of these assignments as the other. salespeople who excel get very good at excelling in a particular environment, and organizational structure is the bedrock of that environment. sales organization structure sales organization structure refers to the design of the sales team. businesses may use an inside or outside sales model, geographic or industry territory approach, product model (split by product line or type), smb/mid-market/enterprise split, or some combination of the above. in his book aligning strategy and sales, frank v. cespedes, senior lecturer of business administration at harvard business school, explains in depth how organizational design impacts selling effectiveness, and emphasizes the importance of choosing a structure carefully. in the chart below, he lays out the pros and cons of four commonly used structures. accounts and opportunities can be divided by: geography/territory product/service line customer/account size industry/vertical segment take a look, and then think about whether a reorg is in order. sales team structures geography/territory org structure organizing your sales team by geography or territory allows each salesperson to develop familiarity with a specific geographic location. they can build rapport with local businesses, get to know regional competitors, and track target accounts. it can also be easier to evaluate your reps by taking into account the performance and market potential of a specific geographic location. one consideration of geography and territory org structure is that it can lead to sales reps working in silos, inhibiting their ability to develop cross-functional expertise. product/service line org structure if your company sells several different products or services, it can help to align salespeople to those products and services. similar to geographical expertise, it allows your reps to become the expert on a specific product you sell, thereby better able to communicate its value and use case for individual clients. a potential downside of implementing this structure is that reps may focus more on the features of the products they are selling, and not the best solution for the customer. customer/account size org structure organizing your sales org by account size is another popular structure. the skills a rep needs to sell to an smb are different than those of selling to an enterprise account. these businesses have different goals, will ask different questions, and have very different budgets. by allowing reps to become familiar with the intricacies of these accounts, you'll better meet the needs of the customer and your reps. with this org structure, teams should be aware that it may be more difficult to manage resources. to be successful, this structure requires constant communication with team members to ensure all clients receive the same quality of service. industry/vertical org structure different industries will use your product/service in different ways. make sure your reps are well-versed in how to position your offering to these various verticals by organizing your sales team accordingly. this can be one of the most expensive ways to structure a sales team. sales organization chart here's an example sales organization chart. this can be modified depending on which organizational structure you choose (i.e., by geography/territory, product/service line, customer/account size, or industry/vertical segment). source: lucidchart having a clearly defined visual representation of how your sales team is organized can help teams work well together, make communication more efficient, and help other departments identify exactly who to reach out to for better alignment. looking for more? check out the difference between sales and business development next. originally published mar 26, 2020 1:30:00 pm, updated march 26 2020 topics: sales organization structure don't forget to share this post! related articles download for later increase your traffic ad software blog software seo software social media software content management system connect with leads find new prospects email tracking sales email templates click to call your leads email marketing close and manage leads document tracking tool meeting schedule tool sales automation tool lead management tool pipeline management tool support and tools hubspot partners join a local user group piesync integrations free tools & generators get a free website report invoice template generator email signature generator marketing plan template generator blog ideas generator make my persona business templates hubspot templates contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium contact hubspot support facebook instagram youtube twitter linkedin medium english deutsch 日本語 español português français copyright © 2020 hubspot, inc. legal stuff privacy policy