skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about the ultimate facebook image sizes cheat sheet by jamie images are one of the most important elements when optimizing your social posts, and this is especially true on facebook, where great visuals get a lot of attention with in the news feed. posts with images capture a user’s attention and entice the person to interact by liking, commenting, or sharing your post. outside of those super-engaging news feed and post images, facebook offers a plethora of visual content options, all with their own image specs. your company’s cover photo, profile picture, ads, and more are all opportunities to make a great impression. with the recent news that facebook will no longer charge news feed advertisers paying on a cost-per-click (cpc) basis when a user likes, shares, or comments on an ad. they’ll only be charged when a user clicks to visit another site, install an app, or use a facebook-hosted app. if you like this graphic, you can even share it on your own blog by using the embed code at the bottom of this post. :) share this image on your site! facebook image sizes 2015 by the team at make a website hub the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories cheat sheets post navigation html 5 cheat sheet – including free pdf download codecademy review 5 thoughts on “the ultimate facebook image sizes cheat sheet” phillip crawley august 16, 2016 at 8:33 am | reply nice, i would love to help you create an updated version if your up for it? rombout versluijs may 11, 2016 at 10:42 pm | reply the ratio of a event cover has been changed again. its now 784×300 so their scaling from a 1200×444 size ratio is off again, so annoyed of them changing that often jamie may 12, 2016 at 9:57 am | reply thanks for letting me know rombout – i’ll get a 2016 version of this graphic made up as there have been more changes again! maribel february 3, 2016 at 4:34 am | reply thanks so much for this :) osterne feitosa january 2, 2016 at 9:32 pm | reply great job. thanks leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. recent posts interview – cameron james from anymail finder the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old how to write a blog post – a guide for new & experienced bloggers best social media management tools 2020 categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub