 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog the best social media management tools 2020 written by anya skrba updated: january 16, 2020 if you are online then you are on social media as well. it’s just the way things are, social networking platforms have become very popular and you will rarely meet a person that doesn’t have a single profile on these platforms. even business organizations have social media profiles and in most cases, they use more than one platform. this is because there are a lot of people on these platforms, and here they found their target audiences to whom they can advertise. to do this in an effective way, they need tools which offer a structured, systematic approach in order to maximize their efforts. the beginner’s guide to facebook advertising advertising on social media is not as simple as getting the right tools. you need to know how to use them and where to focus your efforts. all social media platforms are unique in their own way and require a different approach. here is a beginner’s guide to facebook advertising that can help you get off on the right foot. read the guide what is social media? social media is a popular term used for large sites where users can participate in various types of social activities. for example, linkedin is a business social network where professionals connect with each other, look to establish themselves as experts, find jobs, look for employees, engage b2b partnerships and so on. on the other hand, facebook is a general social network where people can do pretty much anything, from sharing status updates, videos, photos, join groups, and many other things. all of these activities which people take part in on social media open up many opportunities for advertising. however, the most important element is that in which people look to discover new content and view things on social media. this is why a lot of companies were successful in engaging people on social media and fuel their business efforts. why do you need social media management tools? once you start a website, you have to be present on multiple social media platforms to be able to reach as many people from their target audiences as possible. in these situations, webmasters and companies are unable to manage, update, and keep track of all of their profiles and not to mention doing proper analytics. this is where social media management (smm) tools come into play. not only that these tools allow you to manage all of your social media profiles on different platforms from a single dashboard, but they also have great features for accurate analytics, scheduled posts, and tracking impressions. our recommended social media management tool knowem knowem allows you to check for the use of your brand, product, personal name or username instantly on over 500 popular and emerging social media websites. learn more list of the most popular social media management tools not all smm tools are the same. all of them come with different features and some are more suitable for a certain type of advertising or actions. on the other hand, some are better for certain platforms. this is why you need to choose an adequate solution for your needs. buffer buffer is an intuitive social media management platform trusted by brands, businesses, agencies, and individuals to help drive social media results. visit buffer hootsuite hootsuite is a social media management tool that allows users to schedule and post updates to any page or profile for facebook, twitter, linkedin, google+, instagram, wordpress and other platforms from one place—the hootsuite dashboard. visit hootsuite knowem knowem is a social media brand search engine, a trademark protection service, a brand marketing platform and a social network all rolled into one! visit knowem clicktotweet click to tweet is a simple yet elegant service that allows you to get people to tweet your content. visit clicktotweet sprout social is a collaborative social media management platform that makes your social media management easy. you can save your time managing your socials, while creating remarkable brand experiences. visit sprout social post planner post planner is a system designed to enhance the social media marketing activities and campaigns of any business. it’s a platform created by social media marketers for social media marketers, that aims to get more engagement and reach on social media in the less amount of time. visit post planner edgar meetedgar is a tool that you can use to ensure that your audience is constantly seeing you and your message online. visit edgar agorapulse agorapulse is an social community and moderation tool that helps business manage all their social network profiles. the platform is built to enable businesses implement total management of their accounts in top social networking sites: facebook, twitter, instagram, linkedin, and google plus visit agorapulse tailwind tailwind is an end-to-end solution for that helps with saving time scheduling to pinterest and instagram. visit tailwind mavsocial affordable and easy-to-use social media management and advertising software with a focus on visuals. visit mavsocial lumen5 lumen5 turns text into stunning social media videos in minutes. it does this automatically by analyzing the text through ai and putting the best music, video, and images together accordingly. visit lumen5 conclusion accurately determine your social media marketing needs and go carefully through this list of tools that we prepared for you. these are the most reliable tools that you can find and you can rest assured that they will be available for a long time. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.