toggle navigation wording well about wording well resource kit services portfolio testimonials write/advertise donate contact blog january 17, 2017 \ lorraine \ 64 comments the essence of blogging (+ how to earn money online) last updated on: november 19th, 2019 someone on facebook messaged me the other day, asking “what is blogging?” i was a bit speechless. i didn’t know how to answer, because really, how can you explain what blogging is to someone who doesn’t really know? so i directed him to my post 5 things new bloggers need to know, and said, “this will help you.” yet… just four years ago, i had the same question. i was a newbie blogger back then. i was clueless. and i still remember the struggles i’ve endured over the years as i’ve journeyed from “newbie” to “pro.” it wasn’t easy. it was time-consuming. i was constantly learning. (i still am!) to help speed up my learning process, i followed these 8 action tips for guppy-bloggers in an ocean of sharks. i also followed these 30+ blogger-sharks spouting oceans of knowledge… and still follow some. i’ve come quite far in my blogging journey. i’ve practiced the 10 effective strategies to becoming a successful blogger. i’ve also built a solid business from it. the thing that really amazes me it that most people think blogging is a quick way to earn money. but blogging is not a quick way to earn money… not at first. in today’s post, i am going to share a few things i’ve learned about blogging and earning money online. i will reveal how i earn money through blogging, explain what blogging really is (the essence of blogging), and hopefully give you some ideas about how you can increase your blogging strategy and income streams. by the end of the post, you should have most of your questions answered! of course, chances are, you will likely have a bunch of new ones! lol but at least you will know more about how to earn money online! wtf is blogging? blogging is more than just writing articles (also called blog posts) and publishing them online. if you’re a blogger, you likely already know that blogging involves: creating and then running your own website — read blogging resources + how to start a blog (if you don’t already have one) learning how to install and update plugins moderating and replying to comments figuring out how to be noticed by search engines (hint: make sure you submit a sitemap to the search engines! you can use this free sitemap plugin to help you with this.) learning how to create images for your posts (hint: use canva or picmonkey to help you — they are both free to use!) learning how to take and then use screenshots in your blog posts learning how to use click-to-tweet links in your blog posts (hint: read how to use “click-to-tweet” links in your blog posts (for free)) figuring out who to link to within your posts (promote your friends, but also link to top posts in google that provide good information or complement your message) determining how to promote your posts on social media (hint: you have to have accounts everywhere!) learning why networking with other bloggers is important (especially “blogger-sharks” — the big bloggers who you constantly learn from — such as the ones in doing guest posting (and following proper guest posting etiquette) providing value to your audience growing your audience (usually by offering them an incentive to sign up to your mailing list, such as a freebie or a content upgrade) determining which email marketing platform to use (mailchimp, getresponse, aweber, madmimi, constant contact, etc.) figuring out how to monetize your site (hint: you can start by using adsense) creating content on a regular basis (remember, you can always hire someone to help you do this… such as me!) and so much more! wtf is blogging? and how can you earn money from it? #money #bloggingtips click to tweet please take a moment and pin me! the downside of business blogging blogging takes time. so does running and growing a business. the tasks pile up. there is no end. between checking emails, assembling newsletters, keeping accurate income/expense book-keeping records, writing content for my own sites, writing content for others, marketing my business, promoting my blog posts and interacting with others on social media, doing editing and other author assistant work for others, and forming relationships with my friends/followers, it easy to become exhausted! i sometimes wonder if i’ve made the right choice. i’m passionate about most of what i’m doing, but i have doubted myself a lot throughout the past four years. i was filled with a lot of unhappiness in november and december of 2016, too — so much so that i decided to quit blogging for a while. but… all i needed was a break. a long break! (i took one over the christmas holidays and also cut back on my blogging schedule.) i needed some time to evaluate my goals. i have many, both personal and business-related. yet some of my personal ones are related to my business ones. (for example, i’m currently working on a book about helping others overcome their suicidal thoughts. i plan on selling it from one of my top posts: i want to kill myself – what should i do?) there are other downsides to business blogging. many people make mistakes. read 7 common blunders to avoid when business blogging to find out what they are. once you fix these mistakes, you will be able to earn money from your business. (or should i say, more money?!) are you in the wrong biz? if you’re not passionate about what you’re doing, then you’re in the wrong business. sure, “work” is called “work” for a reason. it’s usually not fun. however, when you make a decision to do something with your life, you often don’t have all of the information required. you learn as you go. at least, that’s what i did. when i began blogging, i did it simply to “get my name out there,” because i wanted to do something with my writing abilities. i actually wanted to publish a book i wrote while i was in university. today, that book remains unpublished and is sitting on a shelf in my home office. it’s a scholarly book about canadian poetry. i’ll publish it someday. (i was planning on having it traditionally published, but now that i know about self-publishing, i will likely self-publish it… someday.) i made a video long ago about it… i have no excuse for not publishing this book, except that i got sidetracked along the way. you see, when i started blogging back in january 2013, i actually treated each blog post like a personal diary. i thought that’s what blogging was… writing in an “online journal”! (seriously… i did.) i never thought anyone would read what i wrote. sure, i knew my stories could be found online, but with millions of blogs on the internet, who would find me? and how? i didn’t think that anyone would ever read my stuff, much less be interested in what i had to say. but people found my honesty refreshing. i also got on google’s radar with the fourth post i ever wrote. why? because i provided value to others. i provided a solution that was extremely hard to find. this is the essence of blogging – to provide value to others, via solutions or tips on how to make life easier or better. this was my first lesson about the true meaning of what blogging is… and i’ve constantly attempted to provide value to my readers ever since! that is why i create such useful posts and resources. there is a lot of good stuff on my resource kit page! the essence of blogging click to tweet blogging has other benefits (including earning money) there are many benefits to blogging, depending on what your goals are. you can express your thoughts and feelings. you can network with others, making new friends in the process. you can establish yourself as an expert, and an online authority. you can grow your business. you can make a difference in this world, and/or make a difference in someone’s life. (you can even save a life!) and, of course, you can earn money. (in my old life, i earned money by doing different jobs. one was teaching high school math and english. another was prostitution. seriously. the money i earned was fast and easy… much like how i was when i was a drug addict. in fact, i even quit teaching high school to return to this field because it offered more flexible hours, less stress, and more money. i shared my true story about how i got into prositution after i was raped.) today, my life is totally different. i also have multiple, legitimate, respectable income streams. and most are from blogging! ways to earn money blogging i participated in a round-up post about ways people make money online. i included most of the ways i earn money online, too. the ways i earn money include: – selling my services. (i sell several of my services on wording well, including writing and editing services.) – selling someone else’s product and earning affiliate income by promoting it to your audience. (for example, i promote elna cain’s freelancing course write your way to your first 1k because it’s so awesome!) – selling my books. risky issues is a book of short stories. from nope to hope: how i overcome suicidal thoughts (and how you can, too) is my second one, and is available from amazon (search for it) and createspace (in print)… but the best deal is getting it directly from this website, on sale at 40% off! – i earn through adsense. (learn how you can earn through adsense.) – i earn through sponsored posts and link placements. (see my guidelines for this.) – i do website work for others. (this service is only offered to a few people, and by request only.) – i earn through social sharing. i found a new way to earn online through izea. you can get started with this easily! use my referral link! – i earn by coaching others. i also help others become authors. i’ve helped a blind man publish two books, and a lawyer publish one. i also helped a consultant/trainer publish a book, shaping paths: how to design and deliver practical training. because i’m always trying to add more revenue streams to boost my income, i recently signed up with swerve. (one of my business goals for 2019 is to work less and earn more.) in addition to these ways of earning, you can create something of your own to sell, whether it’s a book (or an e-book), an email course, a video course, or some other type of digital product or training. maybe you can develop an app that people will pay to use. you can also create a membership site and earn money from your monthly subscribers. really, with the way technology is nowadays, the sky’s the limit when it comes to earning money online! how you will earn will depend on your interests, your skills, and your financial situation. sometimes you need to invest some money in order to make money. for example, with blogging, you need to invest in reliable web hosting. if you want to be an author, you need to invest in editing and cover creation. there are other things you can invest in, such as paid plugins, paid marketing tools, and a million other things that you might not necessarily need but will make your life easier. because i am frugal, i try to limit my expenses while increasing my income! ways to earn $$$ online — #money #blogging click to tweet blogging resources and tools i recommend using i can, however, recommend the following tools and services — all links are affiliate links, which means that if you decide to buy them, i will get a small commission (you won’t pay more by using these links): for blogging, i highly recommend buying the plugin content upgrades pro. this will help you grow your email list and ultimately earn money. so will tweet dis . if you want some themes, check out the ones from thrive. for hosting, i suggest you use greengeeks, canspace, or bluehost. for course creation, take the course course. if you want to earn money as a freelance writer, i highly suggest you take elna cain’s course, write your way to your first $1k, or gina horkey’s course, 30 days or less to freelance writing success if you want to earn money as a virtual assistant, check out 30 days or less to virtual assistant success. blogging resources and tools i recommend using #blogging #bloggers click to tweet what’s next? get free stuff! get some free stuff from me! each of these posts offers you a freebie! grab one. grab two. grab them all! – 26 phone apps that make life easier (for blogging or business) – 5 self-editing hacks to boost your blog writing (+ a free checklist!) – how to find a good work-life balance (+ a free workbook/planner) –5 website changes you need to make asap (+ a #tutorial ) also, you can… follow my blog with bloglovin and grab your free e-book below! get a bunch of free #blogging and #business resources at the end of this post click to tweet i offer a free e-book to my blog subscribers, along with other goodies free of charge in some of my emails… so pick up your copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! and don’t forget that i’m a a freelance blogger, writer, and editor for hire. (and an author who can help you create an e-book to give away on your site, sell, and even turn into a print book… to help you earn passive income.) blogging \ blogging, blogging resources, earn money, earn money online, make money online, making money through blogging, money, newbie bloggers, pro bloggers, the essence of blogging about lorraine lorraine reguly, b.a./b.ed., is an author and english teacher-turned-freelancer for hire. her life journey is motivational and inspirational. lorraine's book, from nope to hope, is a self-help book designed to help anyone who wishes to lead a happier life, and contains a built-in workbook. lorraine offers 4 different services on wording well, including writing/blogging, and editing. she also helps others become published authors! check out her services and see what she can do for you. you can also visit her author site, laying it out there. and don't forget to pick up your free copy of 20 blog post must-haves today! 64 thoughts on “the essence of blogging (+ how to earn money online)” chirag darji says november 11, 2019 at 4:58 am hey lorraine, this is a piece of amazing information on making money online. thanks for sharing. chirag darji recently posted…affiliate marketing essentials – set of 8 pdf guides reply lorraine says november 12, 2019 at 12:31 am thanks, chirag! reply best hardware wallets says july 12, 2019 at 6:21 am hi lorraine, it’s an awesome post. i like the content. will you please tell me the best cache plugin for wp. i tried w3 but i feel it actually not giving that much performance. best hardware wallets recently posted…7 best aion wallets reply lorraine says july 13, 2019 at 10:40 am i don’t know which is best for you. my advice is it to try a few and see which one you like! reply ruchi arora says june 20, 2019 at 1:52 am blogging is the most ideal way to express feelings and thoughts. your tips are helpful to me and i enjoy reading your blogs they are superb. thank you, lorraine reply lorraine says june 26, 2019 at 7:10 am ruchi, you’re very welcome. i am glad they helped you! reply neetu says june 13, 2019 at 3:05 am your blog is extremely helpful for me you described everything in a perfect manner. reply lorraine says june 14, 2019 at 5:06 pm thanks, neetu! reply pablo says march 26, 2019 at 11:10 am great post, lorraine i definitely could not agree more regards you have to really be passionate about what you blog about and i think that this is where many people fail as they run out of steam after a year or two, or even sooner. motivation has to be there on the niche one chooses. i couldn’t imagine writing about cats for more than 1 month, for example! 🙂 pablo recently posted…how to greatly increase and improve your business or brand visibility online for free reply lorraine says march 31, 2019 at 11:57 pm pablo, passion and fun are key components of blogging. yes, most bloggers give up after the first year or so. it’s the stong who survive! thanks for chiming in! reply tansu says march 13, 2019 at 7:55 am thanks for the compliment and the encouragement. i’ll get around to publishing it eventually! 😉 you know, it’s kind of funny that i didn’t even think about writing skills being needed to build up a blog… (i guess that shows you how tired i am right now.) lol but you’re right. bloggers need to have writing skills! it’s nice that you pointed this out. thanks! tansu recently posted…pubg mobil, bilgisayar üzerinden oynanabilir mi ? reply lorraine says march 25, 2019 at 2:31 am of course, writing skills are needed to keep up a blog! reply philip v ariel says february 13, 2019 at 2:27 am hi lorraine, what a joy to be here again! an amazing update with a lot of information packed in. i appreciate your time to put together in such a way to use others. i am bookmarking this post and also i am glad to say that this post has been mentioned in my latest updated post, under the title: make money online lessons learned from others keep writing such useful post. thanks ~ philip philip v ariel recently posted…the power of blog comments and other stories reply lorraine says february 13, 2019 at 3:40 am thanks, philip! i appreciate that! reply varun sharma says november 30, 2018 at 3:05 am hi lorraine, very useful information. i think blogging is the best way to earn money online. your blog is really helpful for me, i appreciate your work. thanks for sharing this post with us! reply lorraine says december 3, 2018 at 6:10 pm varun, thanks for your comment. i am glad you found the post the useful. reply make money online says october 9, 2018 at 9:10 am best post ever i have seen for how to make money online. thanks for sharing reply lorraine says october 11, 2018 at 10:15 pm you’re welcome. 🙂 reply allat-home says september 7, 2018 at 1:51 pm hi.. i am a freelancer and a blogger i find your blog very helpful. its quite interesting and i really appreciate your work. reply lorraine says september 8, 2018 at 2:44 am thank you. 🙂 reply usman nasir says january 19, 2018 at 3:01 am blogging is really getting harder day by day unless you have something unique to offer. usman nasir recently posted…using composer create symfony application on cyberpanel! reply lorraine says january 22, 2018 at 2:51 am yes, that’s very true, usman. that is why google wants people to share their unique experiences on their blogs! reply usman nasir says january 22, 2018 at 3:15 am people always love to hear stories 🙂 usman nasir recently posted…using composer create symfony application on cyberpanel! reply lorraine says january 24, 2018 at 4:58 am true!!! reply saima masood says january 18, 2018 at 4:03 pm i have just one word for this post, ‘wow.’ great post, lorraine. how do you do this, girl? i mean so much information in each post. wel written post, nice graphics, well-placed links, free resources and what not! you are not only an amazing writer. you really know how to sell your work which makes you a professional blogger. best of luck with your blog and writing journey. take care. reply lorraine says january 18, 2018 at 4:05 pm thank you so much for visiting my blog! i appreciate the compliments too. 🙂 reply stefan ciancio says september 8, 2017 at 3:49 am great tips! such a great information. i agree with you that “blogging is more than just writing articles and publishing them online.” i have always been facing problems with making money and was trying to hire someone to help me. the way you have stated everything above is quite awesome. thanks a lot for sharing. stefan reply lorraine says september 10, 2017 at 3:32 am stefan, i’m happy to help. 🙂 reply dipen sajnani says september 4, 2017 at 11:15 am hi, first of all thanks for sharing tips and i’ve been struggling to earn money from blog but i hope i’ll do work on what i’m doing wrong. thanks 🙂 reply lorraine says september 4, 2017 at 4:16 pm dipen, good luck! i hope these tips help you! reply stefan ciancio says september 4, 2017 at 5:34 am great tips! such a great information. i agree with you that ”blogging is more than just writing articles and publishing them online.” i have always been facing problems with the essence of blogging and was trying to hire someone to help me. i will tweet your post. thanks a lot for sharing. thanks a lot! stefan reply lorraine says september 4, 2017 at 4:17 pm stefan, there is soooo much to blogging! this post might help you. 5 things new bloggers need to know reply anyaogu ikechukwu says august 14, 2017 at 10:52 am awesome post i love your writing style. i will try and take action to what you have shared reply lorraine says august 15, 2017 at 12:23 pm anyaogu, thanks for the compliment. i hope your actions yield amazing results! reply rohit verma says july 26, 2017 at 8:42 am hi, lorraine thanks for this informative blog.this includes all the topics related to new bloggers.keep writing these type of articles. reply lorraine says july 28, 2017 at 9:27 am rohit, i’m glad you enjoyed it. are you a new blogger? reply rohit verma says july 7, 2017 at 7:03 am hi lorraine, you really create an amazingly informative blog for newbie blog writer. such a helpful article for those who want to start their own blog! reply lorraine says july 11, 2017 at 3:17 am rohit, i’m glad you liked this article, and i’m glad i was able to help you! now, please go read this and set up a gravatar for yourself. it will help you! https://twinsmommy.com/blogging-basics-every-blogger-needs-gravatar-set-one/ reply coin says april 2, 2017 at 5:53 am hi lorraine , i like the way you explained basics and tips. thanks for sharing the post. reply lorraine says april 2, 2017 at 7:08 am thanks for your comment. 🙂 reply sathish arumugam says march 4, 2017 at 3:18 am hi lorraine, such an interesting post, this post will be very useful for all the newbies. nowadays most of them started their new blogs and tried to make money through blogging. though they have enough self-confidence, they don’t have that much patience and time to work on it deeper and to achieve the results. a person who loves blogging and having more passion on it only they can get made in this field. because we need to work a long time and at the same time we need patience about what we are doing. then only they can start earning money sooner. your blog post is unique and quality. thanks for sharing. reply lorraine says march 6, 2017 at 10:36 pm sathish, i always try to provide some value for everyone, regardless of where they are on your blogging journey. you’re right, though… blogging takes a lot of time and hard work before you can see results! i’ve been doing it for over four years now. this past year has been my best ever! (money-wise and networking-wise, too.) stay strong and persevere! you’re doing great! reply christy b says february 12, 2017 at 2:59 pm lorraine! you’re such a treasure. this post is a goldmine for anyone who is new to blogging or has gotten offtrack. it’s true that blogging is a not a get-rich-quick scheme and that it takes work. it’s a big job but for us who love to write it’s not an option to quit! like you, i took a long blogging break. i thought about shutting my blogs down. people said, no at least leave the content there even if you don’t feel like adding to the blogs right now.. and now here i am with new blog ideas. we don’t have to blog every day but we do have to have a business plan and that’s what i’ll have to work on. your post gets me excited about blogging again and that’s awesome. more hugs coming your way! reply lorraine says february 12, 2017 at 3:08 pm christy, blogging breaks are definitely needed. i have thought about quitting, too. but then i think of all the hard work and all the hours i put in… and come to my senses! lol. i worked so long and hard to grow to where i am now that i simply cannot fathom just giving it all up. i currently have over a year’s worth of blog posts as drafts, in various stages of completion. i won’t quit yet and i am glad you are not quitting either. your poetry is read — and needed — by many. and your other site inspires women everywhere — and they also need that. i am so glad you listened and didn’t shut them down! blogging is more than just a way for earning money. it gives us a chance to make an impact on others… and to change lives! what other “job” does that? not many. not like blogging does! reply sherman smith says february 6, 2017 at 7:04 pm hey lorraine, you’re bringing inspiration to the masses! there’s a lot of people out there who don’t know what a blog is and others who don’t have the confidence to try to make money through blogging. your story does give hope for all that don’t have self confidence. you didn’t know what a blog was just 5 years ago and now you have different streams of income coming your way. despite the fact that making money online with a blog isn’t easy, it is definitely possible and you’re a prime example of it. great share! sherman smith recently posted…adzbuzz ublock review: the best free and paid popup ad blocker reply lorraine says february 7, 2017 at 4:16 am hey, sherman, thanks so much for the compliment! it is amazing what can be accomplished once you get educated! 😉 reply jenny rev says january 29, 2017 at 2:15 am hey lorraine indeed a great post! i personally believe that blogging is all about passion, it is hard to succeed in this field without having passion as we need to work for longer period of time, which is not possible, if we are not focused enough and also patience is key. and all this comes automatically if we are passionate about our work. we will eventually start earning money sooner or later, but only thing that is needed for me is to love the work we are doing. correct me if i am wrong. cheers jenny jenny rev recently posted…welcome to the 100k factory revolution reviews blog reply lorraine says january 30, 2017 at 1:02 am jenny, you definitely need to have both passion and patience if you’re a blogger! it’s so much easier doing your work if you enjoy it. 🙂 reply nishant says january 26, 2017 at 2:36 am nice article lorraine, thanks for sharing your experience of traveling from a newbie to a pro blogger. i went through the article you wrote of aha-now “8 action tips for guppy-bloggers in an ocean of sharks” – it was amazing. i like these points 1)realize that blogging growth takes time and 2) position yourself properly and support others with gestures of appreciation. these two points seems to vital for a blogger to become successful. no blogger knows everything we should wade through the tides and keep us updated. creating high quality articles are te best way to get audience attention. reply lorraine says january 26, 2017 at 2:52 am hi nishant. thanks for the feedback. i appreciate it. it’s not always easy to learn things from scratch, especially blogging! it’s also really important to keep learning from one another. that is another important aspect of blogging — being a community! supporting one another and teaching one another is crucial to blogging success! reply bheru lal gaderi says january 18, 2017 at 3:48 am such a great post about blogging. i enjoy read to this article and i want tell you one thing than you write all fact that a new bloggers face. reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 12:53 am thanks, bheru. it’s hard to be a new blogger. heck, it’s even hard to be a pro blogger! one thing, however, that always helps is knowing that you’re not alone in the struggles you face. that is why i like to talk about my personal experiences so much… to teach others… and to help them. reply ryan biddulph says january 17, 2017 at 9:38 pm hi lorraine, nice breakdown of your blogging income streams. and yep, i dig you have streams 😉 gotta have msi to allow in increasing amounts of cash through increasing channels, as you keep on adding dem streams. i am up to 10 now – i think – and always toy around with new ideas to offer value, to have fun, and to be compensated for my having fun. i too had no idea what a blog was a while back. a decade ago for me. i swear i only knew how to check espn and my email 10 years ago. i wasn’t even on facebook much at all. yet in 2 weeks, kelli and i are traveling to qatar through blogging, and good old house sitting. crazy stuff. keep on prospering lorraine! ryan ryan biddulph recently posted…10 blogging income streams to explore reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 12:59 am hi ryan, i remember you mentioning how you were a broke security guard back then. lol isn’t it funny how life-changing blogging can be? i mean, really, it gives you soooo many opportunities that you would not have had otherwise. take the book i’m working on as an example (which i mentioned in this post). if i didn’t write about my personal experiences with suicide, i would have never known just how popular this subject is, and how many people are constantly looking for help in dealing with their suicidal thoughts (and depression). but by blogging about it, an opportunity arose. i can help others and earn money at the same time. you definitely gotta love things like that when they pop up! it’s always nice to add an unexpected income stream to your plethora of revenue streams! thanks for your comment, ryan. i know you and kelli are going to enjoy your next house-sit. you know we’ll be expecting pictures (on facebook) and/or in your blog posts! 😉 reply erika mohssen-beyk says january 17, 2017 at 7:40 pm hi lorraine, beautiful, now i have a post where i can send people who need to know what blogging is. i have to admit i did not know it as well when i started and i did only follow the suggestions of my friend lesly federici and monna ellithorpe. slowly i got to understand what is means. you did an amazing job with this post. thank you erika erika mohssen-beyk recently posted…5 reasons why you should bank on the internet to make money reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 1:01 am hi erika. yeah, it’s such an easy question but it has a complicated answer! it’s easy to understand it all if you’re a blogger, but if you’re never heard of the term “blogging” before, it’s easy to get confused. thanks for sharing this post, too, by the way. i appreciate it! reply gaurav kumar says january 17, 2017 at 8:48 am hi lorraine, it is really interesting to know that you have written a book. i must say you should get it published as hard copy or convert it into ebook and publish on amazon like ryan biddulph. i must say you have the essence of blogging in your soul. making money is always good and when you have some unique quality, why not monetize it. keep growing and share more. thanks! gaurav kumar recently posted…how to find popular keywords using google insight search in 2017 reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 1:28 am gaurav, there are still many things that people don’t know about me! lol i actually have several drafts of books (in various stages of completion) on my computer. it’s a matter of actually setting them as priorities and publishing them… which i will do eventually. of course, i’m known as a blogger, a writer, and a freelancer. and having multiple income streams is great, but being able to make money from my skills is even better. 🙂 that is why bloggers should focus on their unique skills and figure out how to best earn money from using them! reply lesly federici says january 17, 2017 at 8:20 am hi lorraine, nice, informative post! i think writing ebooks is a great way to earn money online … keep at it! and blogging is a good thing. it’s your personal online “storefront” of you. reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 1:42 am lesly, thanks a lot. if all goes as planned, i will have a few e-books published within a few months’ time. 🙂 in addition to the book i’m currently writing, of course. 😉 blogging is awesome, and, yes, it’s a great way to showcase yourself to others… and sell things! reply rose says january 17, 2017 at 5:09 am aloha lorraine, thank you so much for all of this useful information. i have been blogging off and on for over a decade (mostly off) but last year i decided to get serious about it and it has slowly allowed me to earn some extra money on the side. i hope to double what i made last year by being more consistent and applying everything i learned last year. i appreciate bloggers like yourself that are open and willing to share with others along the way as i am the same way and it seems like there are so many bloggers that just don’t want to share knowledge with others. we are a community and should work with each other. i hope you have a beautiful week. reply lorraine says january 19, 2017 at 1:40 am rose, what a beautiful thing to say to me. thank you so much. actually, i have always been transparent in my personal posts. my honesty about my experiences is what has made people like me and follow me on social media. that, and the fact that i always provide value to others for free. that’s one thing i love about bloggers — the are the most helpful people in the world! good luck to you with doubling your income this year! 🙂 and thanks for commenting. you made my day! reply ravi chahar says january 17, 2017 at 2:40 am hey lorraine, it’s amazing to know that you wrote a book many years ago. you should publish it so that people can know more. every now and then people ask the same question, what is blogging? i say only one thing. if you’re passionate about something and turn your experience into words is blogging. every blogger something unique to say. you can influence someone’s perspective. money making blogging isn’t as easy as people think. to build a career as a blogger, you should develop the professional writing skills which takes years. i am glad that you have pointed out some great points here. thanks for sharing with us. ~ravi ravi chahar recently posted…how to setup a professional email address with g suite? reply lorraine says january 17, 2017 at 4:05 am hi, ravi. thanks for the compliment and the encouragement. i’ll get around to publishing it eventually! 😉 you know, it’s kind of funny that i didn’t even think about writing skills being needed to build up a blog… (i guess that shows you how tired i am right now.) lol but you’re right. bloggers need to have writing skills! i didn’t think to mention this because i am highly skilled in this area. after all, i built my business around words! (writing, editing, blogging, helping others become authors, etc.) it’s nice that you pointed this out. thanks! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website you must enable javascript to be able to comment current [email protected] * leave this field empty ← previous post next post → wording well: one of the top 50 freelance writing blogs! wording well: one of the top 25 copywriting blogs! search for: search click to visit: my brandyourself profile write your way to your first #1k 30 days or less to freelance writing success are you in need of some cash? do you like helping others? then maybe being a va is right for you. learn more here: 30 days or less to virtual assistant success learn everything you need to know about creating and selling a course from the course course join freelancer.com and earn cash! recent posts why becoming an author can help your business (and how to become one, easily!) why evaluate your business? (+ what to look at) how to become a self-published author on amazon/kdp some resources for you (#10) some resources for you (#9) some resources for you (#8) some resources for you (#7) 9 easy ways to get a better sleep and many more! get a free copy of 20 blog post must-haves here. © copyright 2014 - present - wording well | privacy policy