skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 march 27, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments a directory website is one where the names, addresses, contact and other details of like or similar individuals or organizations are grouped together, so that they can be accessed from one location. examples would be a real estate listing directory, blood banks, restaurants and the like. online directories make it easy for people to locate any listed service and if you’re using wordpress for your website, you’ll be glad of the many directory themes and plugins that are available for building your website. wordpress directory plugins can add a fully featured directory to your website. directory websites are a worthwhile venture as it’s possible to set up many revenue generating streams with these websites. from selling ads and listings to businesses, to charging visitors for access to content or else setting up a booking site, there are multiple options to generate revenue. featured listings, sticky listings, selling ad space, private listings, membership fees and promoting a product are some of the ways you can make money with a directory website. let’s check out some free and premium plugins that you can try for your wordpress directory website. free wordpress directory plugins the free directory plugins in this list can effectively set up a directory on your website and allow listings. some are simple to set up, while others requires the adjustments of a few settings, especially if you want to customize. ulisting if you would like to save not only money, but time and energy, too, you should get your hands on ulisting. this killer wordpress directory plugin helps you create a business listing and classified ads wordpress website in a breeze. as far as the theme you are using to make it a reality goes, ulisting works perfectly fine with both free and premium tools. installing, activating and setting up ulisting is quick and straightforward, ideal for beginners and professionals. ulisting offers full customization options. thanks to the drag and drop builder, you can create your inventory grids and lists swiftly. with that in mind, you also do not need to code to make adjustments and improvements. additional features and functionalities of ulisting are neat sorting options, paypal and stripe payments, modifiable quick-search function and front-end listing submission. no need to think twice, take action now, go with ulisting and make a difference once and for all. more info / download business directory plugin if you wish to organize the content in your wordpress and make it searchable by users, the business directory plugin is a good option. it helps you create local listing websites, directory listing websites, business provider listing and more. you can use the plugin for both free and paid listings and receive payments via stripe and payfast gateway, with full support for recurring payments. multiple fee plans can be offered and assigned to categories for posting. or you can receive a higher fee for a featured / sticky listing. for featured, latest and random listings, as well as for search, you can use widgets. it allows you to add fully customizable form fields and offers a recaptcha option that will cut down on spam registrations. import and export of listings via csv format is possible and so is the upload of limited number of images which can be displayed along with categories. users can sort within categories and listings, and listing owners can edit listings without access to wp dashboard, if they have posted any item. search options include a quick search as well as an advanced search that can show or hide fields. the plugin is responsive, seo friendly, supports wpml and integrates with popular navigation plugins for easy use. paid add-ons can display ratings for your listings, business locations, location based filtering and zip code radius for many countries. they also help with managing attachments, upload of pdfs, and offer additional payment gateways as well as discount codes. more info / download geodirectory as the name suggests, geodirectory makes use of geographic location to set up an online directory website like yelp, tripadvisor and yellowpages. the base plugin is available for free, but the paid extensions truly enhance the plugin’s capability. needless to say, you’ll have to obtain an api key for google maps. geodirectory comes with a powerful set of features that enable millions of listings, and offer tons of customization options. it has an easy to use front-end interface where users get to register, login and submit entries as well as reviews. they can search for listings based on zip codes or street address, and results are returned in order of proximity. the plugin is fully responsive and compatible with multisites. it comes with a built-in review system, 15+ widgets (including google analytics widget) and 12+ widget areas. it’s easy to import and export listings in bulk using the csv format. the paid extensions help to monetize your site by selling listings. these extensions also allow event based listings, create multi-location directories, add payment gateways and more. more info / download connections business directory connections is a powerful directory plugin for wordpress that can handle simple tasks such as an address book or employee directory, as well as a full fledged business or links directory. while the basic plugin comes with a great number of features, the many paid extensions available allow you to add any extra function that you need. the plugin is highly configurable. the custom fields that come with this plugin let you create almost any kind of directory website. and for some custom fields like phone numbers, users and site admins can set privacy level. csv import of nested categories and csv export of data is supported, as well as translation into 20+ languages. the administrator dashboard can show anniversaries, birthdays and other important events. entries can be slotted into different types – individual, organization and family. the family type of entry will allow you to group individuals together. adding a simple shortcode to a wordpress page will display the directory at the frontend. you can also choose your layout from the pre-built templates and then use the powerful shortcode options to customize the appearance of your directory. it allows you to add responsive logos and images for each entry. connections business directory is one of the best wordpress directory plugins available today. it is compatible with most standard wordpress themes and is seo friendly. there are a number of free and paid add-ons that can extend the plugin’s functions. with over 180 filter hooks and 300 filters, the plugin is developer friendly too. more info / download advanced classifieds & directory pro when it comes to advanced classifieds & directory pro plugin (acadp), there are literally no limits to what kind of directory website you would like to put together. from cars, real estate and travel to restaurant, review site or yellow pages, the list goes on and on. also, acadp gives you all the rights to organize your listings across an endless amount of different categories and subcategories. it also has no boundaries when it comes to how many fields you would like to include. acadp surely is a powerful and versatile wordpress directory plugin. other goodies of acadp are locations and regions settings, search widget and a fully customizable layout. there are also different revenue options, payment methods and email notifications incorporated in the gem. you can start with your directory platform right away; all you need is to download and activate acadp. more info / download directorist directorist is an exclusive wordpress directory plugin for all sorts of different business purposes. with the numerous amazing and practical features, it will be pure enjoyment putting together the must-have platform with directorist. bear in mind, thanks to regular updates, you can expect new features and amazing updates that you can take to your advantage. your platform will easily stand the test of time, always looking fresh and modern. now let’s see what is special about directorist. featured listings, monetization, catchy design, email notifications, responsive layout and unlimited custom fields are a few of the goodies to get the hype going. while building a directory might sound foreign to you, with directorist, all will become much clearer as soon as you start using it. in other words, directorist makes sure that it applies both to beginners and professionals. more info / download name directory name directory is an interesting wordpress directory plugin for building unique and practical glossaries/index pages (with a search function). upon installation and activation of the plugin, you will find it appear in the left sidebar of your wordpress installation. from there, you can access all the features and function this tool has in store for its users. with name directory, you can create multiple different directories/glossaries that will decorate your website with amazing new content. in the settings section, you will find quite a bunch of different customization options to fine-tune the layout and the overall functionality. you can enable the search function, select the number of columns, get the directory to start with a particular letter and even translate it. for a directory that aims more toward a glossary/index style, name directory is one of the best solutions you can get your hands on. more info / download ldd directory lite starting with a directory happens quickly and effortlessly once you install and activate ldd directory lite. this is an easy wordpress plugin that costs you nothing, yet it will do the trick when in the process of creating your very own directory website. there is no real need for technical knowledge, as ldd directory lite is for everyone, beginners and professionals. after a few quick configurations, you can already start benefitting from all the goodies that ldd directory lite has in store for you. thanks to ldd directory lite, you can now start all sorts of local business directories, as well as offering organizations and agencies to submit their listings. the options are very many, that is for sure. with the simple inclusion of a shortcode, you can add the directory to any page you want and see it appear immediately. more info / download bepro listings bepro listings allows frontend submissions to help create a directory. just placing one shortcode on any page or post vests it with the power of many ajax powered features such as clustered google maps for showing listings via a map, and search and filter by multiple parameters. as a result, there is improvement in seo and better customer engagement, as well as access to customer stats. the base plugin includes many features to enable a fully functional directory such as uploading listings in a csv format, accepting payments with the free bepro cart addon and adding categories with or without images. 4 different directory layouts are possible with two template options for search results. listings are also compatible with gallery type display. for the user, it’s easy to manage their submissions using the profile shortcode. site admins can set expiration date, allow any currency symbols and add recent listings using a widget. they can also add listings via a custom post to keep it separate from other posts, and edit and send out email notifications using the free bepro email addon. the plugin is seo friendly, is responsive, supports multisites and will delight developers with hooks and filters. you can configure the plugin to cater to different types of websites including, real estate, business directory, product catalogue, portfolio, classifieds and others via addons. more info / download premium plugins with so many free plugins, you may think that there is really no need to search among the premium plugins. but these plugins do have a lot to offer, both by way of additional features and greater support. so let’s check out a few top selling premium directory plugins. sabai directory plugin sabai directory is a feature rich premium business directory plugin that helps create not one, but many beautiful directories on wordpress. it displays listing in a beautiful list, grid and map view. you can switch between list and map modes. a helpful dashboard is available for users to manage their listing and bookmarks. users can bookmark reviews, listing as well as photos and search the listings by keywords, category, distance, and location. they can also vote on the photos and reviews of listings. the most attractive feature of this plugin is its ability to build community based local directories such as google+ places, yelp, and yahoo! local. the plugin provides multilocation support, allows upload of photos for listings and shows directions on maps. you can have featured listings and custom single page listing, as well as pricing tables on your directory. contact form and 27 customizable email notifications are available for contacting listing owners. the plugin supports rtl, csv import and export, and buddypress user profile and activity integration. using the visual form builder, you can add custom fields and filter results using these fields. it includes a fully interactive map that can display details on hover. the map can be embedded into any page using a short code. you get to choose between 16 map google map types and add custom marker icon to the maps. the plugin supports multiple payment gateways and currencies to receive payments. more info / purchase web 2.0 directory plugin web 2.0 directory plugin is a completely responsive plugin that allows users to create any type of online business directory websites such as a classified advertisements, real estate listing site or a yellow pages site. the option to search within a radius makes it ideal for a local directory. besides being seo friendly and helping to build multilingual directories, it offers a bunch of features that are necessary for directory building. these include front end listing and editing, powerful search option with content fields, rating option, management of invoices and restriction of ads by listing levels. you can have featured and sticky listing options and allow users to choose between multiple payment gateways like paypal and stripe. it supports right to left (rtl) functionality and layouts. a frontend dashboard is available for regular users. it’s also compatible with woocommerce payment systems and yoast wordpress seo plugin. with a price tag of $34, it helps you earn revenues from listing renewals, listing upgrades and claims. this plugin has out of the box support for google maps and map marker icons. you can upload images via ajax, and attach videos and vimeos as well. visitors to the site can contact the owner directly on account of integration with contact form 7. they can also bookmark entries, print them or download them in pdf format. the plugin is built using bootstrap and is compatible with most standard wordpress themes. it is compatible with visual composer, allows csv import of images and included 12 shortcodes and 5 widgets. more info / purchase directory pro directory pro helps you build responsive layouts for your directory, at the same time allowing you to make money with it by selling listings in innovative ways. users can subscribe for varying periods such as daily, weekly, monthly or annually or else opt for one time payments. you can also offer free or paid trials and tailor user roles to be in line with the packages. the subscription can cover services like adding a listing, access to the site, making a reservation, selling a vip badge and more. the plugin allows custom post type and is seo friendly, fully responsive, wpml compatible and integrated with visual composer and mailchimp. users can add or edit listings from ‘my account’ at the front end and pay for listings via the paypal payment gateway or the stripe payment gateway. they can also contact the listing owner via a note. you can place the listing details page on a touch slider to make it easy for visitors to view on mobiles. when it comes to new listings, you can add a badge and specify the number of days for which the badge is to display. the plugin also includes 7 pricing tables, 2 signup styles, coupons for signup, 11 email templates and a whole host of other features and settings. more info / purchase gravityview many of us use gravity forms to add forms such as contact forms to our website. these forms collect loads of data. the gravityview plugin helps to display this data in table view, list view, data tables and google maps to serve as a directory. using a paid add-on, you can instantly have a paid directory. admins will find it easy to work with this plugin. you can search entries, sort columns by values and filter entries, as well as opt to approve or reject entries. add a star to an entry in the admin panel to display it as a featured entry. both site admins and users can edit entries right inside the original gravity forms. it’s possible to upload multiple media elements like images, audio and video and display them in a gallery. a drag and drop builder helps in content layout. users can rate entries. this plugin works well with other gravity plugins like great with gravityflow, gravity pdf, and gfchart to do even more with your form data. for certain levels of licences purchased, gravityview allows deep integration with datatables, a quality script for working with tabular data. this enables you to browse, filter, and sort entries with live updates. with a paid add-on, you can import entries in csv format. the plugin is highly customizable with a 30 day refund guarantee. more info / purchase wp localplus wp local plus is a completely automated, wordpress plugin with which you can create content filled, local business directories. besides listings, it’s possible to include reviews, coupon offers and google maps integration, and more, right from within your wordpress blog. the plugin doubles as an autoblogging tool, and so the auto generation and auto updates features ensure that your content is always fresh. local deals and discounts can be streamed to your blog automatically to enhance the value of the listings. you can create high-powered customized business listings with live local data in minutes. the business search functionality helps to search reviews and deals, while a high powered search tool helps users find the most relevant local results. localplus fully integrates with google maps and can display complete data about business listings. the built-in contextual ad system helps to maximize revenue from ads. listings can display in a list or map view, or you can opt for custom single page listing. geolocation capability allows the user to search relevant data and the friendly dashboard allows them to manage their listing leads. the plugin is available in two versions – one for the american continent and another for the remaining countries. more info / purchase map list pro an easy to use, fully featured, google map and location listing wordpress plugin, map list pro for wordpress lets you quickly display your locations in a page that is sortable, searchable, and filterable. map list pro is perfect for creating store locators, office address and contact lists. the geolocation capability and listing feature make it suitable for listings. more info / purchase listifier listifier is a remarkably versatile and adaptive wordpress directory plugin for businesses and services. with the ready-made designs, page layouts and an array of features, you can now establish a full-blown directory page in little to no time. after all, listifier has it all sorted out for you, you just mix and match, introduce your two cents and you are ready to rock and roll. of course, listifier makes sure that it follows all the latest trends and regulations of the modern web. listifier comes with a built-in package system, supports paypal and stripe payments, includes free and paid listings and allows to mark a listing as featured. do not think that this is all you get with listifier. in fact, there is so much stuff going on, we are unable to list it all here. enjoy the supreme perks of listifier and start with a directory website confidently. more info / download classifier as the name suggests, classifier is the ideal wordpress plugin for building classified ads websites. if that is something that you are thinking of realizing, now you can with the all-around, feature-rich and easy to use classifier. the directory listing that you are about to start could be niche or generic, classifier handles them both without a hitch. you can focus on one industry or create multiple, offering many businesses, agencies and freelancers to submit listings. some superb features of classifier include private chat, five home page designs, seven search page layouts, review system and convenient user dashboard. of course, your impressive creation will also operate smoothly on desktop and mobile devices, as well as popular web browsers. feel free to take a peek at the demo first and see it yourself how robust classifier is. more info / download directories pro needless to say, directories pro is a sophisticated and feature-rich wordpress directory plugin with all the necessary amenities and more. with directories pro, you can go after establishing any type of directory you want. from such similar to yelp and google places to user, property, restaurant and local business directories to name a few. the web design that you create with directories pro is also mobile-ready, fast performing and in tune with web browsers. following are just a few of the overall array of features that you gain access to. directories pro ensures advanced search with filtering, custom fields management, content editor, custom maps and a front-end user dashboard. it also accepts paid listings, csv import and export, reviews and better notification for wordpress. moreover, directories pro is also compatible with seo and all other modern web and tech practices. more info / purchase everest business directory to build and establish a solid business directory, everest business directory is the one wordpress plugin to use. it comes with five list and five grid layouts, as well as map view. as far as the map goes, everest business directory rocks google maps integration. while you can manage and maintain the entire directory on the back-end, your users can also submit, edit and delete listings on the front-end. to make your web platform even more convenient, everest business directory includes an advanced search form to find listings quicker. in the everest business directory package, you will find several gorgeous templates which you can use out of the box or improve them according to your preferences. you can set expiration date and keep the security first-grade with google recaptcha. you will also find categories and tags widgets, as well as a shortcode. in conclusion, all you need is everest business directory and nothing else. more info / purchase in conclusion developing a directory from scratch is both costly and time consuming. this is where wordpress directory plugins can prove to be handy and enable anyone to start with their own directory listing website. if you prefer a wordpress theme to handle your directory you can check out this list. if it’s a more specific classifieds directory you need, there are themes for that as well. as always, if your favorite plugin is not on this list, let us know about it in the comments section. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress directory pluginswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts 5 best free wordpress iframe plugins an iframe is an essential html document you can find on another website. its use… the best wordpress forum plugins for online communities a forum is a place where persons with similar interests meet up and and connect.… 10 free and functional client portal plugins if you want to create a dedicated space where your users will be able to… awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii woocommerce is a popular platform for building and running an online store. it comes with… top 26 wordpress plugins for freelancers to improve their workflow being a freelancer has huge benefits, but it also comes with a lot of challenges.… the best wordpress calendar plugins for 2019 event calendars can be used to schedule and organize small or large events such as… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×