skip to content sign in my account subscribe quick links dear therapist crossword puzzle manage subscription popular latest sections politics ideas photo science culture podcasts health education video technology family projects business global events books fiction newsletters the atlantic crossword play crossword the print edition latest issue past issuesgive a gift search the atlantic quick links dear therapist crossword puzzle manage subscription popular latest sign in my account subscribe wenjia tang if you and your friends are bored, powerpoint parties may be the answer “it’s a distraction from all that’s going on … this is a way to come together, in a different way—teaching instead of just talking.” julie beck my whole household has covid-19 deborah copaken cuomo and de blasio: a tale of two leaders russell berman play: the atlantic crossword video: a disturbing look inside an italian hospital emily buder joan wong how the pandemic will end ed yong the visible exhaustion of doctors and nurses fighting the coronavirus amy weiss-meyer the coronavirus is demonstrating the value of globalization we are experiencing a painful introduction to anti-globalism and its consequences. david frum brendan smialowski / afp / getty the mobster who bought his son a hockey team a tale of goons, no-show jobs, and a legendary minor-league franchise that helped land its owner in prison (from 2018) rich cohen paul lacolley watch new orleans with the country’s attention turned north, the coronavirus pandemic is exploding in louisiana. vann r. newkirk ii yusiki / shutterstock / the atlantic a new york doctor’s warning china warned italy. italy warned us. we didn’t listen. now the onus is on the rest of america to listen to new york. fred milgrim justin j. wee arsh raziuddin / the atlantic the atlantic daily: our quarantine cooking guide as the coronavirus forces people to shop less and stay at home more, it’s time to rethink food consumption altogether. hannah giorgis what you need to know about the coronavirus haley weiss the callousness of india’s covid-19 response vidya krishnan how to survive pandemic reentry marina koren latestsee all cuomo and de blasio: a tale of two leaders russell berman 2:45 pm et watch new orleans vann r. newkirk ii 2:11 pm et the coronavirus-denial movement now has a leader uri friedman 1:59 pm et the visible exhaustion of doctors and nurses fighting the coronavirus amy weiss-meyer 12:57 pm et my whole household has covid-19 deborah copaken 12:35 pm et the meaning of boris johnson’s illness tom mctague 10:48 am et the callousness of india’s covid-19 response vidya krishnan 10:45 am et the books briefing: books for feeling better rosa inocencio smith 10:30 am et if you and your friends are bored, powerpoint parties may be the answer julie beck 10:00 am et how to survive pandemic reentry marina koren 7:30 am et a new york doctor’s warning fred milgrim 7:00 am et the rich fled new york. don’t be like them. nathan thornburgh 6:45 am et vote-by-mail can save the 2020 election ronald j. krotoszynski, jr. 6:30 am et the coronavirus is demonstrating the value of globalization david frum 6:15 am et martial law would sweep the country into a great legal unknown stephen dycus william c. banks 6:00 am et how los angeles is preparing for a worst-case scenario todd s. purdum 5:00 am et photos of the week: masked bunnies, beach meditation, village pyramid alan taylor 12:30 am et the atlantic politics daily: it’s up to the states now christian paz 12:00 am et the atlantic daily: our quarantine cooking guide hannah giorgis march 26, 2020 i’m treating too many young people for the coronavirus kerry kennedy meltzer march 26, 2020 live event the atlantic festival september 22 – 24, 2020 washington, d.c. popularsee all how the pandemic will end ed yong the president is trapped peter wehner the four possible timelines for life returning to normal joe pinsker the callousness of india’s covid-19 response vidya krishnan my whole household has covid-19 deborah copaken a new york doctor’s warning fred milgrim watch new orleans vann r. newkirk ii the rich fled new york. don’t be like them. nathan thornburgh grocery stores are the coronavirus tipping point olga khazan i’m treating too many young people for the coronavirus kerry kennedy meltzer newsletterssee all the atlantic daily get our editors’ guide to what matters in the world, delivered to your inbox every weekday. email address (required) sign up thanks for signing up! see more newsletters the atlantic crossword play the crossword that gets more challenging every weekday. play crossword writerssee all russell berman cuomo and de blasio: a tale of two leaders vann r. newkirk ii watch new orleans uri friedman the coronavirus-denial movement now has a leader tom mctague the meaning of boris johnson’s illness rosa inocencio smith the books briefing: books for feeling better julie beck if you and your friends are bored, powerpoint parties may be the answer marina koren how to survive pandemic reentry david frum the coronavirus is demonstrating the value of globalization todd s. purdum how los angeles is preparing for a worst-case scenario alan taylor photos of the week: masked bunnies, beach meditation, village pyramid christian paz the atlantic politics daily: it’s up to the states now hannah giorgis the atlantic daily: our quarantine cooking guide podcastssee all prologue the story of an unnatural disaster trailer arnold schwarzenegger on the pandemic response episode 8 why can't i get tested? politics cuomo and de blasio: a tale of two leaders watch new orleans the coronavirus-denial movement now has a leader culture we’re finding out how small our lives really are ‘the fact that i can’t fix things now is breaking my heart’ the controversial novel that immerses readers in teen abuse technology it wasn’t just trump who got it wrong when the checkpoints come you have a moral responsibility to post your boring life on instagram ideas a new york doctor’s warning the rich fled new york. don’t be like them. vote-by-mail can save the 2020 election science how to survive pandemic reentry the pandemic has grounded humankind america’s hospitals have never experienced anything like this books ode to social distancing capitalism’s favorite drug a poem for sunday family my whole household has covid-19 if you and your friends are bored, powerpoint parties may be the answer the child-care crisis is even worse for health-care workers business how to think about the plummeting stock market why the restoration hardware catalog won’t die stop believing in free shipping global the meaning of boris johnson’s illness the callousness of india’s covid-19 response photos of the week: masked bunnies, beach meditation, village pyramid health the visible exhaustion of doctors and nurses fighting the coronavirus amazon is struggling to pay workers in quarantine how the pandemic will end education the real lesson of the college closures what could happen if the coronavirus closed schools for days, weeks, or even months the college president who simply won’t raise tuition letters the commons readers debate the merits of paul krugman’s blunt approach educational institutions should engage more—not less—with china about our history staff careers contact help center contact us advertise press podcasts social distance™ floodlines the ticket: politics from the atlantic crazy/genius subscription purchase give a gift manage subscription download ios app newsletters follow privacy policy do not sell my personal information advertising guidelines terms conditions responsible disclosure world edition site map theatlantic.com copyright (c) 2020 by the atlantic monthly group. all rights reserved.