skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides the book all over the place available now i wrote a book about getting lost and finding yourself and also peeing on things when you are angry. if you liked twilight, you will probably hate my book. buy it now! take a famous person’s word for it: “geraldine deruiter’s all over the place is a travel memoir of sorts, but i’d enjoy reading pretty much any topic she wanted to cover. her voice is funny, witty and warm, and her stories sparkle. this book is a travel companion you’ll be happy you brought along.” ~ lauren graham, star of gilmore girls and new york times bestselling author of talking as fast as i can need more convincing? read a deleted chapter > the blog a seattle germaphobe in the time of coronavirus posted on mar 12, 2020 posted in: personal essay, random musings my city feels strangely still right now. i normally hear the sounds from the elementary school nearby, or people walking their dogs, the swish of cars driving by on the street. but it’s oddly quiet at the moment, the only sound the squawking from a few irritable crows whose life mission is to make sure… keep reading i tried making mike bloomberg’s meatball recipe and it doesn’t make sense posted on feb 24, 2020 posted in: food, personal essay, random musings harvey weinstein was found guilty today on some (but not all) of the charges brought against him by the state of new york. and i find this unbelievable, not because i believed in his innocence in any measure, but because i believe in the ability – as old as history and time itself – of… keep reading anti-valentine’s day and ugghhh we’re cute posted on feb 14, 2020 posted in: random musings, steal this idea people are always surprised when i tell them rand and i don’t really celebrate valentine’s day. i mean, we used to. but dear lord, it was always so, so much, and it always felt a little weird and uncomfortable and forced, even if it lead to some of my favorite photos, ever: … keep reading why aren’t you blogging, and other hard questions posted on feb 13, 2020 posted in: random musings, writing every now and then i get a well-meaning email or facebook message from a reader. i’ve noticed, they will write, and i can practically feel the gentle trepidation as they do so, that you seem to have fallen off the planet and are living the life of a hermit. and not even a *good* hermit? like, you… keep reading i write about mice but actually anxiety. posted on sep 3, 2019 posted in: life at home, nothing to do with travel, random musings it’s funny, the things that finally set you off. like, i’ve always presumed that i was a relatively hinged person, but here i am, utterly unhinged. for some of you, this will be unsurprising. some of you will be thinking, “geraldine, you were never hinged. you have fewer hinges than a sliding door.” and i… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: more from the blog are men abused online more than women? posted on: aug 28, 2019 read more 40 things for his 40th birthday posted on: jul 30, 2019 read more between two knees at the osf posted on: jul 27, 2019 read more view posts by category... "lifestyle" 24 hours advice air travel ask the everywhereist attractions awesome book city guide complaint letters cupcake death match dialogues dick move events festivals food food porn friday geological marvels guest posts hotels infographics life at home life in the rest of the world local color lost in translation loving the entrepreneur mondays with mindy museums nothing to do with travel packing paris parks personal essay photos polls products random musings rants and raves restaurant round-up restaurants road trips s.t.i.n.k.s scams shopping shows site news sites somewhat useful info steal this idea stories the week in travel top ten tuesday reverie uncategorized why i travel writing wtf wtf wednesdays view archives facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status