login home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts log in home workout program private coaching free resources courses & training about nf latest posts the 7 best at-home workout routines: the ultimate guide for training without a gym by steve kamb • last updated: march 17, 2020 • 3 comments so you want to start working out, but you don’t want to leave the house? no problem! our online coaches specialize in helping people get fit from home. if you’re in a hurry, sign-up for our free weekly newsletter and we’ll send you pdfs of our “work out at home” guides! download our free home workout guides! let’s go over the 7 best at-home workouts so you can start training today: no gym or equipment required! a note on warming up and cooling down home workout #1: beginner bodyweight (start here) home workout #2: advanced bodyweight home workout #3: the 20-min hotel routine home workout #4: high-intensity interval training home workout #5: attack of the angry birds home workout #6: train like batman home workout #7: the plp progression bonus no-equipment workout: the playground circuit how to build your own at-home workout note: if you’re here because your gym is shut down due to the outbreak of covid-19, check out our guide “how to stay in shape (while staying inside).” at home warm-ups and stretching routines no matter which at-home workout you pick, i want you to start with one important thing: warm-up! i cover why you should always warm up in an article found right here. it doesn’t have to be much though, give it about five minutes to get your muscles active and your heart rate up. this will help you do exercises properly and help prevent injury. you can run in place, do air punches and kicks, or some jumping jacks. here is nf senior coach staci (you might know her incredible story) showing you many beginner options you can use to warm up as well: if you’re curious, here’s my personal (advanced) warm-up: jump rope: 2-3 minutes jumping jacks: 25 reps bodyweight squats: 20 reps lunges: 5 reps each leg. hip extensions: 10 reps each side hip rotations: 5 each leg forward leg swings: 10 each leg side leg swings: 10 each leg push-ups: 10-20 reps spider-man steps: 10 reps our goal isn’t to tire you out, instead we want to warm you up. that’s step one. completing your chosen at-home workout would be step two. below, you’ll find 7 sequences you can follow along with! home workout #1: beginner bodyweight this at-home routine, as we lay out in our beginner bodyweight workout article, is as follows: bodyweight squats: 20 reps push-ups: 10 reps walking lunges: 10 each leg dumbbell rows (using a gallon milk jug or another weight): 10 each arm. plank: 15 seconds jumping jacks: 30 reps the above is what we call “circuit training,” with the objective being to run through the workout sequence once, then again, then again. note: not a milk drinker? if you don’t have milk in the house for the rows, find something of roughly the same weight with a good handle. if you want to download this beginner bodyweight workout as a worksheet, you can do so when you sign up in the box below: grab your beginner bodyweight routine worksheet. no gym required! complete this workout at home, no equipment required avoid the common mistakes everybody makes when doing bodyweight exercises learn how to finally get your first pull-up it’ll help you track your progress as you begin your training. home workout #2: advanced bodyweight if the beginner at-home workout above is too easy for you, move on to our advanced bodyweight workout. the workout looks like this: one-legged squats – 10 each side [warning: super-difficult, only attempt if you’re in good enough shape] bodyweight squats: 20 reps walking lunges: 20 reps (10 each leg) jump step-ups: 20 reps (10 each leg) pull-ups: 10 reps [or inverted bodyweight rows] dips (between bar stools): 10 reps chin-ups: 10 reps [or inverted bodyweight rows with underhand grip] push-ups: 10 reps plank: 30 seconds not familiar with these moves? check out the 21 best advanced bodyweight exercises for a full breakdown. i warn you, the above sequence will hurt… in a good way. you should be proud if you can get through this three times. do you want to get as strong as possible so this workout ain’t no thang? sign up in the box below to grab our guide, strength training 101: everything you need to know. it’ll teach you all of these advanced bodyweight exercises! download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. home workout #3: the 20-min hotel routine sometimes, you just plain find yourself stuck in a hotel room. maybe you can find the hotel gym, but i bet it’s terrible! it probably has 2 machines, a broken treadmill, and no free weights. ugh. instead, how about a 20-min workout you can do in the room itself! utilize the furniture to its full potential. level 1 bodyweight squats: 20 reps incline push-ups: 15 reps (feet on floor, hands on edge of bed or desk) one-arm luggage rows: 10 reps (each arm, use your suitcase as your weight) reverse crunches: 10 reps level 2 overhead squats: 25 reps push-ups: 20 reps inverted rows using the desk in your hotel room: 10 reps reverse crunches: 15 reps set the alarm clock to 15 minutes from now and see how many circuits you can do! check out our full post on hotel circuits if you want level 3! we have a lot of business travelers throughout the rebellion! learn how they stay fit on the road with the nerd fitness starter kit! get your nerd fitness starter kit the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. full guide to the most effective diet and why it works. complete and track your first workout today, no gym required. home workout #4: high-intensity interval training you don’t have to head to the gym to do high-intensity interval training. you can do a complete routine right in your own home! hiit is just following a specific regimen where you vary your speeds and intensity throughout a shorter run, swim, bike, or row. unless you have a giant backyard, running at home might be tough. but you know what doesn’t require a lot of room? burpees! to complete a burpee: start standing up, then squat down and kick your legs out. do a push-up, bring your legs back in, and explode up into a jump. for a hiit workout, try to do 20 repetitions, then rest for two minutes. repeat until you hate yourself. check out our full guide on how to start interval training for some more ideas on hiit workouts. you can also check out our post “the 20-min hiit workout for home” for another living-room-friendly interval routine! home workout #5: attack of the angry birds the angry birds workout is designed to be done when you have 5 or 10 minutes to kill. sort of like playing angry birds… here’s how the angry birds workout plan works: it’s deceptively simple – only four major movements. bodyweight squats push-ups pull-ups (or inverted rows) planks if you don’t have time to run through the whole sequence, no problem! depending on how much time you have during the day, you can do your whole workout at once, or break up your training into four different sessions throughout the day (with each session being one of the exercises). here’s a sample day for your no-equipment workout: wake up, do 40 jumping jacks to warm up, and then do bodyweight squats. at lunch, you grab your suitcase (if you’re at work, milk jug if you’re at home) and do inverted rows. after work, you do another 50 jumping jacks and then do your push-ups. after dinner, you do your planks while watching tv. you could even split it up over two days if needed, but the goal would be to do it the whole sequence at once. the main angry birds workout article describes in detail levels 1-6, but here’s level 3 for you: bodyweight squats: 50 reps push-ups: 50 reps pull-ups: 10 reps planks: 3-minute hold once you’ve done the complete routine, you have my permission to whip out your phone and play the actual game! home workout #6: train like batman we love the caped crusader here at nerd fitness, so naturally we have the batman bodyweight workout for you to try! bonus points if you somehow do this no-equipment workout in a cave, as that’s how bruce wayne would roll.[1] this workout is separated into two days for you: batman no-equipment workout day 1: rolling squat tuck-up jumps: 5 reps side to side push-ups: 5 reps modified headstand push-ups: 5 reps jump pull-up with tuck / pull-up with tuck-up: 5 reps handstands against wall: 8 seconds batman no-equipment workout day 2: ‘180 degree’ jump turns: 5 reps tuck front lever hold: 8 seconds tuck back lever hold: 8 seconds low frog hold: 8 seconds this is a relatively advanced workout already, but if you want to progress to the next level, check out the main batman bodyweight workout for tips on how to do just that. join our free weekly newsletter! it would make alfred pennyworth proud. home workout #7: the plp progression the plp is a progressive program in which you complete one additional rep of three exercises – pull-ups, lunges, and push-ups – every day, for two months. note: this is not a beginner program, and should not be attempted unless you have been training consistently and can do multiple repetitions of pull-ups and push-ups with great form. like this perfect push-up: and this perfect pull-up: here’s how the plp progression works: day 1: pull-ups: 10 reps push-ups: 10 reps lunges: 10 reps (each leg) day 2: pull-ups: 11 reps push-ups: 11 reps lunges: 11 reps (each leg) day 3: pull-ups: 12 reps push-ups: 12 reps lunges: 12 reps (each leg) how long do you keep doing this? as originally envisioned by chad waterbury, the plp workout lasts 60 days.[3] yeah…by the end of it you’ll be doing more than 50 pull-ups. there are two versions: if you can do 10 straight pull-ups: start day 1 with 10 reps of each. if you cannot do 10 straight pull-ups: start day 1 with 1 rep of each. complete your required reps each day in as many sets as you need, whenever you need to. the goal is to do it in as few sets as possible, but enough so that you can complete each rep with proper form. want to learn more? check out my results on the plp workout. bonus no-equipment workout: the playground circuit do you have a nearby playground? why not work out there! if you have kids, you can do it together. or let them ignore you. i’ll give you a level one workout, and a level two. check out the 20-minute playground workout for some level three exercises. level one alternating step-ups: 20 reps (10 each leg) elevated push-ups: 10 reps swing rows: 10 reps assisted lunges: 8 reps each leg bent leg reverse crunches: 10 reps level two bench jumps: 10 reps lower incline push-ups: 10 reps body rows: 10 reps lunges: 8 reps each leg straight leg reverse crunches: 10 reps after you’ve gone through a complete set three times, go down the slide! working out doesn’t have to suck...we know how to make it fun! join the rebellion to become part of our community! how to build your own at-home workout we just went over 7 workouts you can do at home (plus a workout you can do in a park). you don’t have to stick to these though! i have two resources to help you design your own no-equipment workout: the 42 best bodyweight exercises: this guide will teach you how to perform the best bodyweight exercises – no equipment required! check it out if you are unfamiliar with any of the movements referenced in today’s guide. how to build your own workout routine: once you’re comfortable with a handful of bodyweight exercises, use this guide to pull them all together into a full-body workout! that should get you going on building a workout you can do in the comfort of your own home. want more? alright, eager beaver, i got you. we built three options for people just like you: 1) if you want step-by-step guidance, a custom workout program that levels up as you get stronger, and a coach to keep you accountable, check out our killer 1-on-1 coaching program: our coaching program changes lives. learn how! 2) good at following instructions? check out our self-paced online course, the nerd fitness academy. the academy has 20+ workouts for both bodyweight or weight training, a benchmark test to determine your starting workout, hd demonstrations of every movement, boss battles, meal plans, a questing system, and a supportive community. learn more about the nerd fitness academy! 3) join the rebellion! we need good people like you in our community, the nerd fitness rebellion. sign up in the box below to enlist and get our guide, strength training 101: everything you need to know. it’ll help you start incorporating these bodyweight moves into your training. download our comprehensive guide strength training 101! everything you need to know about getting strong. workout routines for bodyweight and weight training. how to find the right gym and train properly in one. alright, your turn: i’d love to hear how your home training is going! which workout above did you try? did you make one of your own? leave a comment below with your results or any questions you have on working out at home. for the rebellion! -steve ps: if you were going to buy one piece of equipment to utilize in your home, a kettlebell would offer you a lot of versatility: ### photo sources: scenes from an empty lot in brooklyn, vol 1, hotel room, speed!, lego angry birds, the batman, vintage house bicycle, footnotes ( returns to text) you probably don’t want to actually do this workout in a cave. hitting your head on a stalactite wouldn’t be fun. check out chad’s great post here. get the rebel starter kit enter your email and we’ll send it right over. the 15 mistakes you don’t want to make. the most effective diet and why it works. complete your first workout today, no gym required. these are the tools you need to start your quest. site signup url signup post id site signup url signup post id classic posts welcome to nerd fitness i'm steve kamb. i'm a nerd. i deadlift. nerd fitness helps desk jockeys, nerds, and average joes level up their lives. there’s a lot of b.s. out there about fitness. we’re working to put a stop to it. about the rebellion home academy login join the rebellion at nerd fitness! blog community free resources search archives contact © 2020 nerd fitness. all rights reserved. terms and conditions | privacy policy