the college investor millennial personal finance and investing blog facebook instagram twitter youtube about products free tools contact escape student loan debt start investing how to earn more money save more money forum today's headlines azlo review – online business checking march 27, 2020 by robert farrington leave a comment azlo is an online, app-driven, online bank that focuses on online business banking for entrepreneurs. see how alzo online compares. need to know topics coronavirus stimulus checks: what to expect march 23, 2020 by robert farrington what does a quarantine mean for your student loans march 18, 2020 by robert farrington tax due dates for 2020 (including estimated taxes) december 2, 2019 by robert farrington when to expect my tax refund? the irs tax refund calendar 2019-2020 october 25, 2019 by robert farrington latest headlines azlo review – online business checking last updated on march 26, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. azlo is an online, app-driven, online bank that focuses on online business banking for entrepreneurs. see how alzo online compares. what is the average cost of college? (and how to reduce costs!) last updated on march 25, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. find out the average cost of college, and what that looked like in the past! how do you reduce today’s college costs? find out right here. 6 ideas to diversify your income streams last updated on march 25, 2020 alexa mason 2 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. do you want to build multiple streams of income? here are six ideas to diversify your income. there is something on this list for everyone. the best online banks for your money in 2020 last updated on march 23, 2020 robert farrington this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. thinking about the convenience of banking online? check out this list featuring some of the best online banks for your money. coronavirus stimulus checks: what to expect last updated on march 27, 2020 robert farrington 1,153 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. the government is going to be sending out coronavirus stimulus checks to every american to help them with the recession, here’s what to know. dividend aristocrats | who are they and how they work last updated on march 23, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. the dividend aristocrats are stocks that not only pay consistent dividends, but have also raised their dividends every year. moneypatrol review | a robust personal finance app? last updated on march 17, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. moneypatrol is the latest personal finance app that is focused on helping people budget and managing their money with a robust dashboard. bbva bank review: a competitive full-service bank last updated on march 26, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. if you’re looking for a bank with physical locations and competitive apys, consider bbva. here are some of the features you might enjoy! what does a quarantine mean for your student loans last updated on march 26, 2020 robert farrington 39 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. the u.s. government is likely to issue a nationwide quarantine to contain the coronavirus. what does that mean for your student loans? what is an sma (separately managed account) and the benefit of one? last updated on march 18, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. learn about what a separately managed account is and get answers to some questions about them. here are facts you might want to know. deserve credit cards review: are they worth a try? last updated on march 25, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. do you need access to credit? learn about deserve credit cards — there are a few types! which one is best for you? read about them here. what are small-cap stocks? (and how to invest!) last updated on march 18, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. what are small-cap stocks and how do they perform in the market? learn how to invest in them and discover if they can be rewarding. dogs of the dow: is this strategy a winner? last updated on march 23, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. the dogs of the dow is an investment strategy with history. michael b. o’higgins suggested that one should purchase last year’s losers in the dow jones industrial average. the methodology is very simple: each year investors are to:find the dividend yields of all dow jones industrial stocks.invest 10% of their capital in 10 of the highest-yielding […] bask bank review | earn miles instead of interest with savings last updated on march 12, 2020 hannah rounds leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. if you’re looking to mix things up in your financial world, consider bask bank! earn miles instead of interest with their savings account. yieldstreet review | invest in high yield alternative assets last updated on march 9, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. yieldstreet allows investors to connect with individual high yield alternative assets such as real estate, art, litigation, and more. what is a direct student loan? here are important pros and cons! last updated on march 11, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. direct loans, or direct student loans, are a particular type of student loan issued by the government. learn about them right here! the best investing apps that let you invest for free in 2020 last updated on march 9, 2020 robert farrington 43 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. investing doesn’t have to cost you an arm and a leg. here are 5 investing apps that let you invest for free so you can build your portfolio. student loan forgiveness for doctors: a step-by-step guide last updated on march 16, 2020 robert farrington leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. are you a doctor with a lot of student loan debt? take a look at some student loan forgiveness options for doctors and save some money! the top tax tips for new families (with a new child) last updated on march 6, 2020 hannah rounds 2 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. after having a baby, you might be wondering if there are any tax tips to help you. there are! read these and see if any apply to you! high-paying side gigs that earn $1,000 or more per month last updated on march 5, 2020 robert farrington 3 comments this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. if you’re looking to make some money on the side of what you already for work, check out these high-paying side gigs. many ideas await! the ultimate pet insurance guide: is pet insurance worth it? last updated on march 4, 2020 hannah rounds 1 comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. learn about how pet insurance works and what it usually covers. also discover some pet health insurance companies you can consider! simplifi review | a new personal finance app from quicken last updated on march 2, 2020 hannah rounds leave a comment this article contains references to products from one or more of our advertisers. we may receive compensation when you click on links to those products. for an explanation of our advertising policy, visit this page. if you’re looking for an app to help you track your money, consider simplifi from quicken. here are the best features of this app and more! 1 2 3 … 93 next page » popular posts 3 ways to make $50,000 per year without working with passive income side hustle ideas: 50+ ways to make money fast 30 passive income ideas you can use to build real wealth secret ways to get student loan forgiveness top student loan scams the best investing blogs of 2020 (and more great reads) the top ways to get student loan forgiveness 5 personal finance habits that will make you rich the full list of student loan forgiveness programs by state fedloan servicing – the worst student loan servicer fun resources the college investor audio show podcast student loan debt movement 2019 side hustlin’ student scholarship finalists online brokerage comparison tool – find the best stock broker for you the full list of student loan refinancing companies tax help center daily investing tips ultimate guides the definitive guide to student loan debt: everything to know about your loans the full list of student loan forgiveness programs by state student loan and financial aid programs by state the ultimate ira contribution guide the ultimate guide to saving for retirement the ultimate college internship guide search credit cards the top 10 best rewards credit cards the top 10 cash back credit cards the best credit cards to maximize travel rewards the best travel credit card reward strategy top small business credit cards best balance transfer cards best student credit cards banking the best free checking accounts for march 2020 the best online banks for your money in 2020 the best bank cd rates of march 2020 (updated daily) top 10 best money market accounts for march 2020 (updated!) 10 best high yield savings accounts of march 2020 (rates updated daily) the best checking and saving account bank bonus offers student loans the 10 best places to refinance student loans in march 2020 best private student loans to pay for college in march 2020 how to find the best student loans and rates in 2020 investing best online stock brokers in 2020 (according to readers) the best places to open an hsa (health savings account) the best investing apps that let you invest for free in 2020 how to buy stocks online for free insurance the top 10 online life insurance companies the ultimate guide to renters insurance – everything you need to know the cheapest car insurance for college students at the college investor, we are deeply committed to helping you make more money by getting out of student loan debt and starting to invest to build wealth. copyright © 2009 – 2020 the college investor guides and resources the definitive guide to student loan debt: everything to know about your loans student loan forgiveness programs by state best student loan refinancing companies 30 passive income ideas you can use to build real wealth 80 different ways to get student loan forgiveness email facebook instagram linkedin pinterest twitter youtube how we make money privacy policy terms of service archives advertise press page do not sell my personal information