skip to content wordpress tavern · wordpress news — free as in beer. search for: open menu navigation about contact comment policy news opinion plugins themes events themes godaddy’s ‘go’ wordpress theme offers a page-building experience via the block editor justin tadlock · january 21, 2020 · 6 comments godaddy launched its go wordpress theme last week. it has been publicly available through its github repository for several months, … continue reading godaddy’s ‘go’ wordpress theme offers a page-building experience via the block editor → get involved with block-based wordpress theme experiments justin tadlock · january 15, 2020 · 8 comments as the wordpress theme review team wound down their team meeting yesterday, they were finalizing what their focus area for … continue reading get involved with block-based wordpress theme experiments → rosa 2 restaurant theme provides a frustrating and satisfying experience justin tadlock · october 9, 2019 · 14 comments rosa 2 is the sequel to pixelgrade’s best-selling theme, rosa. the new theme re-imagines its previous incarnation in the context … continue reading rosa 2 restaurant theme provides a frustrating and satisfying experience → twenty twenty bundled in core, beta features overview justin tadlock · september 24, 2019 · 5 comments twenty twenty, the upcoming default wordpress theme, was committed to core and shipped with wordpress 5.3 beta 1 yesterday. like … continue reading twenty twenty bundled in core, beta features overview → bayleaf: a food and recipe blog theme justin tadlock · september 19, 2019 · 7 comments with the wordpress theme directory dominated by business-oriented themes, it’s sometimes tough to find themes that cater to more specific … continue reading bayleaf: a food and recipe blog theme → first look at twenty twenty: new wordpress default theme based on chaplin sarah gooding · september 6, 2019 · 11 comments anders norén unveiled the designs for the new twenty twenty theme today. as speculated earlier this week, wordpress will repurpose … continue reading first look at twenty twenty: new wordpress default theme based on chaplin → anders norén to design twenty twenty default theme, shipping in wordpress 5.3 sarah gooding · september 5, 2019 · 5 comments wordpress 5.3’s release lead coordinators announced a new batch of focus leads during yesterday’s core dev chat. anders norén, one … continue reading anders norén to design twenty twenty default theme, shipping in wordpress 5.3 → wordpress theme review team scraps trusted authors program due to gaming and inconsistent reviews sarah gooding · august 14, 2019 · 26 comments after several months of discussion, wordpress.org’s theme review team has decided to discontinue the trusted authors (ta) program that launched … continue reading wordpress theme review team scraps trusted authors program due to gaming and inconsistent reviews → gatsby theme jam contest inspires two wordpress starter themes sarah gooding · august 2, 2019 · 1 comment gatsby, the open source app and website framework based on react, celebrated the stable release of gatsby themes by launching … continue reading gatsby theme jam contest inspires two wordpress starter themes → wordpress theme review team seeks to curb obtrusive admin notices with new requirement to follow core design patterns sarah gooding · july 10, 2019 · 7 comments for years, the wordpress admin has become increasingly overloaded with admin notices. some of them are giant, branded notices with … continue reading wordpress theme review team seeks to curb obtrusive admin notices with new requirement to follow core design patterns → wordpress theme review team initiates new long term plan to make all wordpress.org themes accessible sarah gooding · july 9, 2019 · 5 comments the wordpress theme review team (trt) met today and agreed to put new accessibility requirements in place for themes hosted … continue reading wordpress theme review team initiates new long term plan to make all wordpress.org themes accessible → posts navigation 1 2 … 40 next → recent comments henrico on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesdespite the threat of the coronavirus an… justin tadlock on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesbaby boomer is not a slur, and the term… patty on finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our strugglesi just would love to never hear that now… justin tadlock on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupwordpress 5.4 is not required, but guten… stephen vaughan on gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanupas an alternative to placing in the func… trending gutenberg 7.8 adds patterns api and continues interface cleanup finding balance in these uncertain times: remote work and sharing our struggles block patterns will change everything block-based themes and the problem with dynamic data in html templates yoast publishes free online training course for the block editor how to add subscript and superscript characters in wordpress font awesome releases new covid-19 awareness icons subscribe via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. email address subscribe about wp tavern wordpress tavern is a website about all things wordpress. we cover news and events, write plugin and theme reviews, and talk about key issues within the wordpress ecosystem…read more → footer home archives write for us ask the bartender proudly powered by wordpress. twitter facebook instagram