barkbox barkshop super chewer barkpost answers life trending health food politics celebrity wedding 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 11 long-lasting chews for dogs who'd chew through drywall what are the best apps for dog parents? 10 things you may not know about military dogs 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup alaskan klee kai breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? how old is my dog really? 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup what are the benefits of coconut oil for dogs? 11 thanksgiving staples that are hazardous to pups barkbites: protein-packed peanut butter mini donuts here's what hillary clinton said when someone asked her about puppy mills one state is taking dramatic steps to prevent dog theft proposed bill mandates shelters be alerted before research dogs are euthanized dogs are now helping tiny humans testify against bad people 7 of the best dog dads who ever dog dadded the jon stewart/stephen colbert reunion was even more awesome than we imagined anderson cooper just got a new puppy and she's adorable shia labeouf quits acting to live with pack of 150 free-running dogs human gets help from a posse of pups to create the perfect proposal for his soulmate the dogified wedding: diy dog cake toppers 15 dog couples all got hitched in the furriest wedding ceremony ever 14 wedding keepsakes for the couple who loves dog as much as they love each other discover trending breaking for the hoomans science tech weird news quiz what causes eye boogers in dogs? 17 ways your dog is telling you they're really stressed out 101 nature inspired dog names 17 ways your dog will improve your quality of life new york's upper east side is so lavish, even the dogs drive bmws it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life dedicated search and rescue dog dies after saving 7 people trapped in earthquake rubble lt. dan finds his feet and walks straight into a furever home 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup afghan hound breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts japanese spitz breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts jindo breed information guide: quirks, pictures, personality & facts how old is my dog really? furry coworkers make you kick butt at your job and help you bring home more bacon it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life can your dog really predict the weather? 8 of the best podcasts for dog lovers how to get your dog on a billboard in time square 9 inventions all dog people would like to see turned to reality this year these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible - with applied economics 8 signs your dog might be turning into a zombie doberman swallows 26 golf balls and lives to fetch again happy endings saved this hermaphrodite puppy people admit they would rather kiss this loved one vs. significant other 14 hilarious "would you rather" questions to test your dog obsession quiz: can you tell dog's gender just by looking at their face? we bet we can guess what kind of dog you have based on your fave horror movie quiz: what is your dog's poo-sonality type? humor trending fail funny funny pics funny videos wacky dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) 25 shocking dog sex "facts" you don't need to know 10 hilariously literal names for pit bulls here are 15 exotic animals trying to take the best pet title away from dogs stubborn great dane refuses to get off the bed because, hey, it's a free country 15 dachshunds who need their ears reset boxer falls asleep standing up, predictably falls over dog leaps on top of his sister in the pool because he's a dingus 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup how do you know if you're ready for a second dog? 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 dogs who got themselves in trouble when their human wasn't looking 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life travel trending adventure video family culture 51 breathtaking travel destinations your dog will adore visiting with you 16 things you must know the next time you fly with your dog 15 essential road trip tips that will give your dog the adventure of a lifetime 11 summer cruises that you can take with your dog fish canyon falls is the best place to hike with your dog 5 things you need to know about visiting joshua tree with your dog bulldog bravely outsmarts river the way only a bulldog can 10 camping spots your dog will love dogs reacting to kanye west's "lift yourself" (whoop de scoop) chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own fluffy chow chow puppy and hooman bond in swimming pool. enjoy your day. 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup it's confirmed! looks like walking your dog is the key to a longer life 10 reasons why dogs make better travel buddies than humans 20 dog names that are about to blow up in 2016 good trending cause veterans puppies heartwarming what is the history of dogfighting? these humans make the world a better place for the dogs who need it most sad news: the villalobos rescue center will no longer be giving public tours borrow a dog for the day? there's an app for that what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? former bait dog thrown away like trash gets to be treated like the treasure he is this new adoption website is like petfinder for cool kids devoted dog discovers amazing way to help his human get around after years of being forgotten, these canine veterans finally get the life they deserve selfless military dog honored for his heroism with a beautiful statue dying veteran's last wish is to find his service dog a forever home how do you introduce your new dog to your first dog? how training and boarding can help your dog what do i do if my dog can't poop? 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" life is better with your dog, a short film by bark & co. 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 things you should never say to a maltese owner 15 maltese instagram accounts you need in your life cute trending cute cute pics cute videos an open letter to puppies from senior dogs who are sick of this poop 18 yorkie mixes too adorable to be real 16 dog breeds who never outgrow their puppy looks 24 breeds that are mixed with corgi 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 23 dog gifts to include on your wedding registry 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" 15 holiday hazards you may not realize are dangerous for your pup 21 etsy gifts for people who like dogs more than humans 17 things all doodle parents know to be true 15 dogs who just want to say "cheeeese!" chihuahua shakes her head "no" when asked if she's mad stop what you're doing and look at this pit bull puppy's face frenchie puppy thinks whining is for losers, screams like a baby instead boxer mom adopts injured baby bird and raises it as her own search barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go want more poop like this? sign up for our barkpost newsletter! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign up good these women save dogs in the nerdiest way possible – with applied economics share on facebook share on twitter share on pinterest benjamin moore editor, barkgood shares share tweet pin christine l. exley was 17 years old when she saved the life of a “wiggly-butt pit bull” named pepper. while volunteering at a local shelter, she fell for sweet pepper, and was saddened to learn that the dog would be put down if no one adopted her. so exley took pepper for a walk and never came back. after all, she was seventeen – too young to adopt pepper herself. drastic times, etc. the point is, christine exley cares about the wellbeing of dogs. she’s been caring about them – in demonstrable, proactive ways – since she was eleven and started volunteering at the shelter near her hometown. it began as a means of earning a girl scout badge, but “immediately became a passion.” she’s been doing it ever since. it’s not her only passion, though. exley is also pretty fond of economics, which she studied at stanford in pursuit of her doctorate. it was there, while researching the work of economic scientists lloyd shapley and alvin roth, that she realized she could combine her two passions – applied economics and man’s best friend – to help find homeless dogs their forever homes. according to exley, who was interviewed by working knowledge: “i recall – perhaps naively, but excitedly – thinking, ‘i know how to save the dogs! we just need to come up with a better matching algorithm.’ “ she took her idea to the san francisco spca – which she volunteered at in her spare time – only to learn that someone else had already approached them with a similar idea. that person was elena battles, a stanford mba graduate who’d previously worked as the coo of the silicon valley humane society. the two women joined forces, created wagaroo together, and the rest, as they say, is history. elena battles and trini the wonderbeagle well, sort of. the first iteration of wagaroo was actually not all that successful. after exley and battles created what they believed was a workable matching algorithm – potential adopters would fill out surveys about preferred breed, size, age, energy level, and so on – they proceeded with matching adopters and dogs. the only problem was, what people said they wanted and what they ended up choosing were two very different things. said exley: “anecdotally, what we saw over and over was that people see a dog in person, they fall in love with it, and they get it. maybe they thought they wanted a calm, six-year-old labrador retriever, and said so on the survey. but then, when they saw a really cute two-month-old poodle, they just had to have him. and that’s the dog they ended up getting.” so they switched gears a bit. instead of merely focusing on matching adopter and dog via their algorithm, they started working on other avenues of bringing canines and humans together. namely, by rehoming them. “we talked to a lot of people about where they got their dog, and a story that kept coming up was that people often found their dog from another family. not from a shelter, not from a rescue group, not from a pet store or a breeder. just, you know, ‘a friend of mine had a co-worker who needed to rehome her dog.’ ” of course, rehoming is always a bit of a controversy among animal lovers. there’s a tendency to get angry and blame the original owner for being selfish or uncaring as he or she just passes off his or her dog like an old appliance. and while there are certainly cases where that’s the reality of the situation, there are also cases where rehoming is not only unavoidable, but also the noble thing to do. a death in the family, a serious illness, a financial crisis, what have you. in exley’s own words: “we help owners in crisis of needing to rehome their dog. instead of surrendering their dogs to shelters, we help owners directly rehome their dogs to new families. we also developed a mechanism, discussed in a harvard business review blog (by paul oyer), to screen out ‘bad actors’ from our family2family program.” it’s important to exley and battles that neither puppy mills nor backyard breeders can game their system and use their rehoming program to make money. as such, anyone trying to rehome their dog must do so free of charge. on the other end, to avoid potential abusers, adopters must pay a fee to wagaroo, which will then go toward general operating costs and finding other dogs homes. solving the problem of dog homelessness is a massive undertaking, and one that needs to be fought on all manner of fronts. i still have questions about how effective wagaroo’s overall plan is – for example, i’m not sure how connecting people to “responsible breeders” helps – but it’s clear that the bulk of their work is focused on saving dogs’ lives. there are other things that need to be done, obviously, as there always will be, but at the end of the day, christine exley and elena battles are fighting the good fight. and they’re doing it in the nerdiest way possible – with applied economics. (oh, and you’ll be happy to know that pepper the pit bull is still wiggling her butt in christine’s family home nearly ten years later.) h/t working knowledge featured image via christine exley comments want to read more stories? sign up & unlock all stories & get the best pup shenanigans each week! poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. sign me up benjamin moore editor, barkgood pit bull "breed" information guide: pictures, personality & facts what is the history of dogfighting? why are there so many pit bulls in shelters? 0 shares categories answers puppy wellness travel good play other links privacy policy terms of service careers bark family barkbox barkshop super chewer bark essentials. stay connected facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram © copyright 2020 barkpost search for: life discover humor travel good cute facebook pinterest tumblr twitter instagram about hooman jobs tos privacy policy barkbox barkshop barkgood barklive barkbook barkpost app available on the app store barkpost newsletter poochas gracias! you are now pupscribed. go