× canada edition newslatest newshousinggood newsexplainersworldmeanwhile in canadaalbertabritish columbia coronavirus politicsjustin trudeauandrew scheerjagmeet singhelizabeth mayontario politicsdoug fordus politics'follow-up' podcast businessreal estateworkrecallsbasic incomeprecariously taxedunfriendly skiesmoney hacks lifelifestyle newshealthrelationshipshow-toidentitystylefood & drinkhomeborn and raised'navigating'royalsgift guidesthis could helptravel parentsnews you can useself-carehow-toreal talk'life after birth'dad lifeparents voicesroyal kids perspectivespersonalopinionhow to pitch to huffposthometownvoices video podcasts'follow-up''born & raised'news for google home/alexa follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. × newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideocanada edition huffpost finds these on-sale sex toys are social distancing-approved it might be time to take things into your own hands — literally. by danielle gonzalez 03/17/2020 09:53am edt | updated 32 minutes ago icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_commentcreated with sketch. huffpost may receive a share from purchases made via links on this page. prices and availability subject to change. ray kachatorian via getty images take "me time" to a whole new level. let’s be frank: social distancing — however important and necessary for these times — is probably going to mess with your sex life. that’s especially true if you’re single and can no longer go out to bars and clubs or use your favorite dating apps to meet up with new people. so, whether you’re taking a break from dating apps for the time being, have a fling who lives in another zip code or find yourself doing more netflix than chill with your partner — it might be time to take things into your own hands, literally. lovehoney, retailer of all things sexy, is offering an extremely well-timed sale on sex toys for up to 70% off. consider it the perfect time to stock up on some fun social distancing essentials. like a new sex accessory to spice things up with your partner now that you’re together all the time. or a little something to destress on your own time. we found plenty of sex toys perfect for singles, partners and queer couples in this sale, which runs through april 6. so you can spend more time between the sheets, we’ve rounded up the 10 best sex toys to try during the lovehoney sale. (they’re nsfw, obviously.) click through to see some of our favorites on sale: stock up on these sex toys during lovehoney's march 2020 salesee gallery browse lovehoney’s full march sale related... women swear by this orgasm balm for better sex feeling dry down there? we asked experts about the best lubes for women the most popular sex toys, according to the city you live in suggest a correction more:finds salecommercefinds nsfwsexrelationships danielle gonzalez associate commerce editor, huffpost icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. icon_pinterestcreated with sketch. icon_flipboardcreated with sketch. icon_youtubecreated with sketch. trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police videos getting coronavirus cabin fever? try dancing. diy face masks won’t lower covid-19 risk. what should you use them for? british pm boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 here’s the latest on the coronavirus’ impact around the world how to apply for cerb, canada’s new $2,000 emergency response benefit newscoronaviruspoliticsbusinesslifeparentsperspectivesvideo advertise with usfaquser agreement (updated)privacy (updated)comment policyabout usabout our ads part of huffpost home & living. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved.