news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) these are a whole lot better than standard airpods and a whole lot cheaper. by knowtechie deals march 26, 2020 image: knowtechie if i was given this option before purchasing the new airpods pro, i would have totally gone with this. for a limited time only, ebay is blowing out these newly released sony wf-1000xm3 true wireless earbuds at just $99 a whack. they normally sell for $229. yea, that’s an insane discount even for a refurb. here’s what you get with these headphones. active noise canceling, six hours of battery life listening with anc on, compatible with siri and google assistant, touch controls, and a whole lot more. there’s even a feature that when you hold your finger over the left earbud, you can hear what’s around you for as long as you hold your finger down. that’s pretty neat. again, it’s a refurb, but you get a 90-day warranty on them so that should put your mind at ease. we’re guessing these will sell out fast so we suggest jumping on this sooner than later. we don’t know how long this deal will last. click the button below for more info. see at ebay editors’ recommendations: this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. related topicsdealsebay knowtechie deals hooking you up with the best deals on gadgets, gaming, technology and everything else under the sun. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in deals this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers $139 is a great price for a robot vacuum. don't pass this up. one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now probably wouldn’t hurt scooping up a few at this price. snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 listen, paying $20 vs. the regular $60 is an absolute no-brainer. razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now this is one of the best prices we've seen to date on this. this infrared forehead thermometer is down to just $56 right now in times like these, you might really need this. this iphone x/xs battery charging case is only $13 right now for prime members it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out this is a deal that... snag a philips hue starter kit for just $120 in this one-day sale if you're looking to dip your toes into the world of smart lights, this... whoa, civilization vi is down to just $15 for the nintendo switch if animal crossing isn't your thing, this sure is. this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie