coronavirus reliefpresident trump signs massive coronavirus relief package menu sports 49ers a's stanford earthquakes giants raiders sharks warriors sports odds best of best of travel video cbsn bay area more travel contest & promotions cbs entertainment news all news san francisco newssan francisco news from kpix channel 5 local newssf bay area local news from cbs and kpix 5 consumer tech business lgbt environment politics entertainment education healthwatch autos latest headlines coronavirus update: 32 additional cases, new death in santa clara countysanta clara county's health department on friday announced 32 additional novel coronavirus cases, along with one new covid-19 related death, bringing the number of deaths in the county to 20. pg&e to use funds for wildfire victims to pay for camp fire crimespg&e is warning its elaborate plan for getting out of bankruptcy might collapse if the utility can’t pay for its criminal liability in the deadly camp fire by taking money away from a fund set up to compensate victims for their losses. photos 62nd annual grammy awards red carpet gallerythe best looks from the 62nd annual grammy awards on cbs. kpix5 live special reports weather weather links interactive radar weather maps weather app weather videos weather videos sports all sports 49ers a's stanford earthquakes giants raiders sharks warriors sports odds golden state warriors coronavirus update: warriors star steph curry confirms covid-19 test during star-studded online chatgolden state warriors star steph curry teammed up thursday with dr. anthony fauci for an online instagram chat on the deadly coronavirus outbreak for at least 65,000 of his followers including former president barack obama. warriors star steph curry to host coronavirus social media summit with dr. anthony faucigolden state warriors star steph curry announced he will host a virtual q&a on instagram with dr. anthony fauci who is the director of the national institute of allergy and infectious diseases and is a high-profile member of the white house task force on the coronavirus pandemic. oakland raiders how did the 49ers and raiders do in free agency?the whirlwind of nfl free agency is over, and teams are looking toward a modified version of the draft. cam inman of the bay area news group told kpix sports director dennis o'donnell last night on gameday that both teams did a solid job managing their respective rosters during the jam-packed week. report: ex-raiders safety karl joseph to sign with brownsthe raiders defensive overhaul in nfl free agency continued wednesday. after reportedly adding six new players on defense, the team said goodbye to safety karl joesph who is set to sign with the cleveland browns. best of latest headlines coronavirus home tips: how to stay calm, well-fed and healthy during the covid-19 outbreakstay safe, well-fed and mentally healthy with this at-home tips from cbs sister site chowhound. covid-19 shopping tips: what to buy and what to avoid during the coronavirus pandemicsee what to buy and what to avoid while stocking up during the covid-19 pandemic. st. patrick's day irish recipes to prepare while stuck at home due to coronavirusauthentic irish recipes for your socially distant st. patrick's day celebration. 5 st. patrick’s day drink recipes to make while social distancing from coronavirusthese boozy beverages will turn any st. patty's day spent social distancing into one that keeps your spirits high. find desserts and more at downtown berkeley's new hui lau shancraving desserts? you're in luck: a new business has opened its doors in the neighborhood. called hui lau shan, the new addition is located at 2282 fulton st. in downtown berkeley. san francisco's 3 favorite spots to find low-priced crepeshoodline crunched the numbers to find the best affordable creperies around san francisco, using both yelp data and our own secret sauce to produce a ranked list of the top spots to venture when cravings strike. video cbsn bay area news videos politics videos sports videos weather videos more station info kpix 5 advertise travel more tsa screeners at mineta san jose airport under coronavirus quarantinethe tsa screeners union told kpix that in addition to the three tsa screeners who tested positive for coronavirus, 43 of their coworkers had to be quarantined because they had contact with those three individuals. san francisco int'l airport to open new 'skyterrace' public observation decksan francisco international airport is reopening their public observation deck, which has been closed for around 25 years, this valentine's day. passengers from wuhan halted from flying to sfo due to coronavirus outbreakthe chinese government has shutdown the city of wuhan for outbound travelers leaving the city due to the spread of the coronavirus, according to state-run media. more cbs entertainment cbsn bay areawatch now thieves party in san mateo co. restaurant closed during coronavirus shelter-in-place march 27, 2020 at 7:19 am filed under:break-in, burglary, coronavirus, covid-19, half moon bay, la costanera, montara, san mateo county, theft montara, san mateo county (kpix 5) – a restaurant along the san mateo county coast closed due to the coronavirus shelter-in-place was trashed by thieves who partied at his business, the owner said. the break-in took place at la costanera, a peruvian restaurant in montara, over the weekend. surveillance footage showed at least four suspects breaking in, stealing cash and drinking plenty of alcohol. the thieves did not leave until the following day. surveillance footage of a break-in at la costanera restaurant in montara. (cbs) manager jorge palacios said damage aside, the most important thing right now is for everyone to be safe. “be safe, it doesn’t matter if it’s a restaurant or your home – people are gonna be looking for it,” palacios said. “we’re on week one and we don’t even see the entire problems yet.” • also read: san leandro police: alleged shoplifter claimed being ill with coronavirus to avoid arrest the restaurant, which has been closed since march 16th, plans to reopen once the lockdown is lifted. comments (7) you must log in to post a comment. follow us facebook_url twitter_url youtube_url instagram_url reddit_url linkedin_url our | newsletter most viewed coronavirus update: nurses' union locates 39 million n95 masks for governments, health care systems coronavirus update: free coronavirus testing site in hayward overwhelmed by long lines thieves party in san mateo co. restaurant closed during coronavirus shelter-in-place 'rogue event' planned at sf nightclub amid coronavirus health order; city attorney moves to shut it down san francisco emergency 911 call center employee tests positive for coronavirus coronavirus update: social distancing proving to be elusive at san francisco stores coronavirus pandemic: two grand princess passengers die from coronavirus coronavirus update: warriors star steph curry confirms covid-19 test during star-studded online chat follow us facebooktwitteryoutubeinstagramredditlinkedin news san francisco newssan francisco news from kpix channel 5 san fran weathersan francisco bay area weather from cbs and kpix business politics healthwatch tech entertainment sports raiders sf giants sharks warriors other best of only cbs travel corporate about us advertise connect ©2020 cbs broadcasting inc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip by viewing our video content, you are accepting the terms of our video services policy privacy policy terms of use california privacy/info we collect california do not sell my info mobile user agreement ad choices eeo reports public file for kpix-tv / cbs 5 public file for kbcw-tv / kbcw 44 cable 12 public inspection file help