start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising motivation work advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. read full profile share pin it tweet share email society as a whole is gradually becoming more open to the concept of seeking out work that you truly enjoy and embracing those opportunities but, for many, work sucks; it may be a place of dissatisfaction rather than one of pure joy. this can be due to any number of reasons. perhaps you are in a position solely for the money rather than for the work that you are doing on a daily basis. maybe you are in an entry-level position that serves as a placeholder until you can get the job that you want. you may even be in a job simply because it was the only option available to you in the moment. regardless of why you are in a job you may not be in love with, the truth is that this position is going to remain your reality until you are able to carve another path for yourself. ultimately, it is up to you to shape your reality. would you prefer to show up to work every day with a negative attitude or be present each day with a positive one? if you have chosen the latter option, here are 7 ways that you can deal with your work situation and change the course of your professional outlook. 1. figure out where the source of discontent is coming from a lot of people can say that they are not in love with their jobs but not a lot of people can truly tell you why they are unhappy in detail. the problem with this is that you may only be unhappy with a couple of things but, since you are choosing to say that you are unhappy with your job as a whole, you could be missing out on the wonderful parts of your position that make it worthwhile. take some time to sit down and hash out where this discontent is coming from. are you unhappy with the amount of money you are making? are there people in your workplace who are making your professional life miserable? are you spending too much time getting to and from your workplace? are you working too much and are able to properly take care of yourself and other aspects of your life? advertising whatever the issue may be, it is important to take note of these problems as this will help you determine where you are not satisfied in your job, and will give you something to work off of so that you don’t blame your job as a whole for your dissatisfaction. [1] 2. focus on the positive aspects of your job no matter how bleak your current outlook of your job is, the truth is that there are always positive aspects to every professional role, even if you have to look a little bit harder to find them. these positives can be found in almost any part of the workday and it is up to you to frame them the right way so that you can look forward to them rather than dread them. some positive aspects may include… a long lunch break and several small breaks that give you time to re-energize. being close to your house so that you don’t have to stress about extensive travel in the mornings or evenings. a larger salary that allows you to lead the lifestyle you want. positive employees who pump you up and make you feel ready to tackle the workday. being able to indirectly help people through the job or service that you are performing. although these examples may or may not apply to your own professional life, they serve as a reminder that you can always find great parts of your job if you are looking for them. once you find the parts that make you happy, make sure to focus on those throughout your work day to improve your mood and your overall take on work. 3. discover a greater purpose in your job a job is never just a job. is a job a service that is performed so as to achieve a certain purpose for other people who are willing to pay for it. this means that whatever you are doing is helping someone else with their own needs and to help them improve their own quality of life. that’s not to say that every job holds the same level of quality in terms of purpose but, your work does matter and it does contribute to something. if you are having trouble finding what this something is, consider the purpose of the company that you work with. advertising perhaps you work for a fast food establishment and you are not able to see your immediate impact based on your role. if this is the case, for example, you could choose to take a look at some of the impact your organization is making and frame it in such a way that your work is helping them to reach those goals. purpose allows people to feel more motivated and positive about going to work. there is always an underlying purpose to what it is you’re doing. find it and work with that purpose in mind! 4. make the rest of your life more enjoyable if you are relatively unhappy with your life and you are going into a job each day that you don’t necessarily enjoy either, your move and your perspective on life isn’t going to improve any time soon. remaining miserable with your life conditions is no way to live. while you may not be able to change your situation, you are in control of your life and your attitude. you can make adjustments in your personal life that will help to make your work life more bearable. think about what it is that you want out of life and what you can do to increase your current quality of life. are there goals that you want to reach? are there things that you want to do more of that you haven’t been pursuing lately? more often than not, our professional life can shift our focus away from our personal lives and, we will lose track of fulfillment in this area. changing the way that you live your life can greatly improve your mindset towards your current work situation.[2] 5. learn more about what you would like to be doing people will often think about the fact that they would rather not be doing their jobs but, they don’t often think about what they would be doing instead. if you don’t like your job, it can be proactive to learn more about what your alternative career path would look like. advertising if you weren’t working this job, what would your new and improved job look like? what would your position be? what responsibilities would you have? what impact would you make? how much money would you be making? why would you want this job over your previous one and how it would it improve your current situation? don’t just fantasize about your current situation. figure out what you would rather be doing so that you can take your first step towards a new life when the opportunity presents itself. 6. create a plan that will help you reach your new career goals if you do have a better career path in mind and you simply need to get out of your job and into one that you would prefer, you will need to create a plan that you can work towards regularly — one that will be successful in landing you that new professional role. based on the questions you asked yourself in the previous point, find out what it will take to reach the career of your dreams. do you need any further education to get there? are there any requirements that you have to meet beforehand? what obstacles do you need to clear along the way? take a look at this guide and get more inspirations about how to set carer goals: how to set ambitious and achievable career goals (with examples) your plan will vary widely depending upon the difference between your dream job and your current position but, you will get there in time if you work towards these goals every day and take the necessary steps needed to make the transition seamless. figure out what you need to do, make a plan and a timeline, and crush your goals! advertising 7. take control of your work in the meantime part of making your work suck less is learning the art of acceptance. you cannot change everything about your job overnight and, you need to accept that you will be in your current position until you are able to shift into a position that you truly enjoy. however, this does not mean that you can’t make your current job more easily acceptable at the moment. take control of the situation and take control of your work while you still have the job that you are in. whether this means making the changes in the things you do not like (if you can) or taking control of the work that you are given, changes can be made to better suit your needs. get organized, grab your job by the horns, and guide it towards a better tomorrow. after all, this is your reality! the bottom line while your job cannot change at a moment’s notice, your outlook can and the most valuable tool you have at your disposal is yourself. use that mighty brain to your advantage and cultivate a better mindset as you plan for the future that you want, rather than choosing to remain negative about your work life. more tips for finding fulfillment at work how to be happy at work and find fulfillment in your career how to have a successful career and a fulfilling personal life how to find your passion and live a fulfilling life featured photo credit: helloquence via unsplash.com reference [1] ^ jo green coaching: what to do when work sucks [2] ^ the art of charm: what to do when your job sucks share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) how to have a successful career and a fulfilling personal life you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts advertising advertising more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it more by this author dylan buckley dylan is lifehack's motivation expert specializing in self-development, with extensive experience working for life coaches and startups. think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it how to figure out what motivates you at work 25 hard work quotes to motivate you to achieve more how to do what you love successfully how to deal with failure and pick yourself back up trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) how to deal with negative thoughts (the healthy way) 7 things that decrease team motivation (without you even noticing) 20 things life is too short to worry about advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in motivation 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 what is resilience and why is it important? 5 think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.