search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us actor exits as series regular ahead of season 3 ron cephas jones will take on smaller role. by sam warner 14/06/2018 getty images this is us actor ron cephas jones has exited the show as a series regular for season three. the actor has played the role of william hill for the past two seasons of the nbc drama, though will now take on a smaller role as he joins a new project (via deadline). jones earned an emmy nomination for playing randall's biological dad on this is us, with the first season showing his final months with cancer as his health worsened. he has since been seen in flashbacks. getty images the star is now joining the star-studded cast of apple's new 10-part series are you sleeping, which comes from reese witherspoon's hello sunshine company. he joins the likes of octavia spencer, aaron paul, lizzy caplan, elizabeth perkins, mekhi phifer, michael beach, tracie thoms and haneefah wood on the show, which looks into america's obsession with true crime podcasts. jones will play the role of leander 'shreve' scoville, the father to spencer's investigative reporter character poppy parnell. related story this is us season 3: everything you need to know on the this is us front, creator dan fogelman revealed last month that they have already shot parts of the final ever episode. "we have a path for each season of the show," he said. "we've always had a plan… i don't think this show will ever - despite any success it may or may not have - will ever overstay its welcome, and we have a story to tell. and we want to do this the right way. and so we have a plan." he added: "i've actually already shot pieces of the final scene in the series." this is us returns to nbc in the us later this year. channel 4 airs the show in the uk, but hasn't confirmed a season two premiere date yet. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us star promoted to series regular for season 3 'hellboy' actor to lead us biker series 'nikita' actor 'keen on series regular role' the good doctor promotes star to series regular 'homeland' star exits as series regular this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising