search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us post-super bowl episode finally reveals how jack pearson died milo ventimiglia was right – it was "f**king painful". by bea mitchell 05/02/2018 nbc universal warning: this article contains major spoilers from the post-super bowl episode of this is us, titled 'super bowl sunday'. following last night's super bowl, this is us finally confirmed how jack pearson died – and it was utterly tragic. previously, we saw jack inadvertently leaving a slow cooker on thanks to a faulty switch, starting a raging fire in the process. nbc universal however, 'super bowl sunday' revealed jack didn't die in the fire, as such. instead, he survived after rescuing his whole family, along with kate's dog, and some important family possessions. jack was taken to hospital for a routine check-up after inhaling all that smoke, before things took a tragic turn when he unexpectedly went into cardiac arrest and died. previously, this is us star milo ventimiglia teased that jack's death would be "an absolute soul-crushing event". "once you figure out the moment where it's going to happen, you may get some hope – and then it's all going to go away," ventimiglia said. "i think the best thing i can say – or the worst thing i can say – is, it's going to be f**king painful." he was, of course, correct... me: ok i know that this is the #thisisus episode where jack dies. i’m ready *jack dies* me: pic.twitter.com/qjocg1jjml — emily zalewski (@emily_zalewski) february 5, 2018 when you find out there is another #thisisus episode on tuesday pic.twitter.com/7tktkrfppk — kendall (@hailkingkendall) february 5, 2018 me while watching #thisisus pic.twitter.com/imdoirscym — fancy yancy (@fancyyancyy) february 5, 2018 oh man. this show... #thisisus pic.twitter.com/hdbsqmwbg0 — amy robles (@amyroblescoach) february 5, 2018 i am destroyed emotionally #thisisus pic.twitter.com/z6dtcmlmf0 — melodie joy di rocco (@meldirocco) february 5, 2018 still, milo had some words of comfort for grieving fans: hope everyone is feelin ok. was a tough night. but i was happy to be with these 3 (@logan_shroyer you were missed bud). #thisisus. mv pic.twitter.com/h0jwtaax5m — milo ventimiglia (@miloventimiglia) february 5, 2018 just so everyone knows it....#jackpearson lives in all of our hearts. he’s you. he’s me. he’s us. thank you all for supporting our show. we love you all :) and this isn’t the end of jack. stay tuned. #thisisus. mv — milo ventimiglia (@miloventimiglia) february 5, 2018 this is us airs on nbc in the us. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us's super bowl episode will surprise you this is us's season 2 will reveal how jack died this is us lands the coveted post-super bowl slot how to watch the super bowl free in the uk mandy moore: this is us super bowl episode has answers this is us's mandy moore teases jack's fate us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising