search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us season 2 gets a uk air date – but it won't be on channel 4 the long wait is almost over. by ian sandwell 20/06/2018 nbc universal this is us fans in the uk have been waiting patiently for season two and we finally have some good news for you. season two will premiere on wednesday, july 4 at 10pm, only it won't be on channel 4, but its digital sister channel more4. the move isn't that surprising given that the show hasn't been as big of a hit in the uk as it is in the us. without getting into spoilers, season two finally solves the mystery surrounding jack's death and picks up from the various season one cliffhangers, including jack moving out of the family home after a fight with rebecca, and randall telling beth that he wants to adopt a baby. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images nbc has already confirmed that the show is coming back for season three in the us on september 25, meaning that unless more4 airs double bills, season two will still be airing in the uk when the next season has premiered in the us. hopefully with its new home, we might see season three air in early 2019, potentially starting during the show's midseason break in the us. this is us isn't likely to end anytime soon, but creator dan fogelman recently revealed that he has already shot parts of the final-ever scene in the series. "we're pretty far along. our writers and i are kind of to the end," he explained. nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images "we have a path for each season of the show. we've always had a plan... i don't think this show will ever – despite any success it may or may not have – will ever overstay its welcome, and we have a story to tell. and we want to do this the right way. and so we have a plan." this is us season two starts on more4 in the uk on july 4, with season three premiering on nbc in the us on september 25. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv channel 4 picks up hit us drama this is us mandy moore's this is us is getting two more seasons '2 broke girls' to air on channel 4 in uk legion season 2 gets a uk air date – and a first look mandy moore: this is us super bowl episode has answers rick and morty season 4 to air on channel 4 in uk us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising