search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 premiere "it broadens our world in a way." by louise mccreesh 30/08/2019 twentieth century fox sterling k brown has teased that the season 4 premiere of this is us will be "disruptive". the actor plays randall pearson on the nbc drama and, speaking recently, revealed that the forthcoming season would "broaden" the world of the show and will be disruptive right from the off. "[the new season is] really cool and it broadens our world in a way," he told entertainment weekly. marvel studios related: everything you need to know about this is us season 4 "we’re not necessarily understanding how characters are connected to the pearson plan at large… there will be something that is disruptive, from the beginning." he added: "the show can be subversive in a way. nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images related: this is us creator opens up about major character's fate after heartbreaking season 3 finale "you’re expecting something and then we flip it. and in format as well, we’ll do something for a couple of weeks and then flip it on its ear, so this is dan [fogelman, this is us creator] just playing. "i love that he never stops playing and he never rests on what he’s done before. he’s constantly trying to outdo himself. i didn’t even know that was something you were looking for in a showrunner, but i adore it." this is us airs on nbc in the us and on channel 4 and amazon prime in the uk. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv 'bones' exec teases season premiere this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 'psych' exec teases "fun" season premiere this is when stranger things was going to return mr robot star responds to s4 premiere shock twist 'walking dead' exec teases season premiere us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising