search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us boss has already shot scenes for the final ever episode "we have a plan." by sam warner 30/05/2018 nbcgetty images while this is us won't be ending anytime soon, it's boss already knows how the series will end. in fact, creator dan fogelman has revealed that they've actually already shot parts of the final ever scene in the series. talk about forward planning! "we're pretty far along," he told entertainment weekly of how far ahead they have mapped the nbc show. "our writers and i are kind of to the end. nbc related story this is us fans already predicting who will die next "we have a path for each season of the show. we've always had a plan… i don't think this show will ever - despite any success it may or may not have - will ever overstay its welcome, and we have a story to tell. and we want to do this the right way. and so we have a plan." he added: "i've actually already shot pieces of the final scene in the series." while he obviously did not detail what will happen - why would he? - fogelman did tease some upcoming storylines. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images related: this is us season 3: release date, cast, spoilers and everything you need to know one person that will get more focus is toby (chris sullivan), and we will also get a "deep dive" into beth's (susan kelechi watson) backstory, with both characters getting their own episodes. "you're going to be surprised what toby and beth were like before they entered this family," the creator added. he also teased the 'who is "her"?' mystery introduced in the season two finale, adding: "our plan right now is that big questions will be answered in the course of the season. i think people are going to be surprised with how we use that timeline." this is us returns to nbc in the us later this year. channel 4 airs the show in the uk, but hasn't confirmed a season two premiere date yet. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 elementary s6 finale was written as the show's final ep empire boss already has "endgame" figured out timeless boss talks possibility of a third season will this is us season 3 feature a time jump? hbo boss "in awe" watching final got episodes us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising