top navigation explore ew.com entertainment weekly ew.com entertainment weekly tv movies music books theater podcasts gaming events celebrity awards search close profile menu your profile down triangle previous your profile account join now email preferences newsletter manage your subscription this link opens in a new tab give a gift subscription this link opens in a new tab order past issues this link opens in a new tab logout login sweepstakes subscribe close explore ew.com ew.com entertainment weekly ew.com entertainment weekly search explore previous explore what to watch: here are the tv shows your favorite celebrities are binge-watching what to watch: here are the tv shows your favorite celebrities are binge-watching see what sterling k. brown, olivia munn, george r.r. martin, and more couldn't stop watching. read more next 32 of the most shocking performances ever 32 of the most shocking performances ever from madonna to beyoncé, these singers know how to put on a show. read more next stars who almost played iconic movie roles stars who almost played iconic movie roles find out which a-listers missed out on memorable parts read more next tv previous tv see all tv tv reviews tv recaps tv reunions movies previous movies see all movies movie reviews movie trailers film festivals movie reunions music previous music see all music music reviews concerts music festivals books previous books see all books book reviews author interviews theater previous theater see all theater theater reviews podcasts gaming events previous events see all events comic-con celebrity awards previous awards see all awards oscars emmys golden globes sag awards grammys tony awards profile menu subscribe this link opens in a new tab your profile down triangle previous your profile account join now email preferences newsletter manage your subscription this link opens in a new tab give a gift subscription this link opens in a new tab order past issues this link opens in a new tab logout login sweepstakes follow us home chevron right tv chevron right this is us creator reassures: 'we're not killing randall this season' this is us creator reassures: 'we're not killing randall this season' by dan snierson january 29, 2018 at 01:13 pm est save fb tweet ellipsis more pinterest mail email iphone send text message print comment this is us type tv show network nbc where to watch close streaming options you somehow made it through william’s passing, and now your tear ducts are being called to action again. indeed, jack pearson (milo ventimiglia) is going to die. soon. like, in-the-next-episode soon. certainly, losing two beloved characters on this is us is a bunch to handle, but once you make it past this tragedy that’s been a year in the making, you can safely put the grim reaper in the rear mirror. or maybe now you’re nervous that another pearson will come to pass. some fans of the heartfelt nbc drama were wondering that after witnessing a moment between randall (sterling k. brown) and kevin (justin hartley) in tuesday’s episode. the scene plucked a few heartstrings as randall lamented to his brother that their father “has already been gone longer than we had him.” but the scene also carried a vaguely unsettling if foreboding feel: randall explained to kevin that he can’t picture himself as an old man, and kevin assured his brother, “[y]ou’re not going anywhere anytime soon, right?… you got your health, you got a beautiful family… you got a tough-as-nails, kick-ass wife who literally will not let you die on her. you’re not going anywhere.” after hearing that you’re-going-to-live-a-long-time point hammered in, some fans expressed… concern. a few examples from twitter: yes, yes, yes, it’s extremely unlikely that the show would actually off a third main character. and the invaluable sterling k. brown and his ever-growing santa-size sack of awards aren’t going anywhere. and no, this certainly isn’t crock-pot levels of fear. but maybe it’s worth asking this is us creator dan fogelman if he could just triple-reassure fans that randall is not in any way marked for early death. “listen, i can’t reassure anybody of anything,” fogelman told ew. wait! don’t worry, it gets better. “i can assure everybody that we’re not killing randall this season, so everybody can relax,” he continues with a laugh. “i think they would burn my house down. i’ve experienced with a lot of friends, when you’ve lost a parent, particularly for whatever reason a parent of the same sex —a guy losing his father or a girl losing her mother early — there can be a slight mortality clock that kicks in a bit earlier than it does on other people, especially since it was formative. and i think that’s something randall and kevin feel.” and for what it’s worth, fogelman actually has a bit of a different read on that moment. “watching that scene between randall and kevin, the hairs on my arms go up more for kevin, how assuredly he talks to randall about how you’re never gonna die but doesn’t say anything about himself,” he says. “we’re not [hinting at] anybody’s death, but it’s always interesting the way that people view their own mortality.” so, in conclusion, randall — and kevin — you’re off the hook. but if there were a hook, kevin, it sounds like you’re a little more on it than randall. for more from fogelman on that fiery cliffhanger and what to expect in the post-super bowl episode on feb. 4, click here. episode recaps previous s8 e7 recap homeland recap: hugh dancy is here, and he's hot by s7 e11 recap the blacklist recap: the call is coming from inside the house by s5 e6 recap outlander recap: jocasta's getting married in the morning... by s5 e6 recap better call saul recap: when push comes to tugboat by s5 e16 recap supergirl recap: curiouser and curiouser by s40 e7 recap survivor: winners at war recap: the queen abdicates her throne by s4 e18 recap this is us season finale recap: confessions, babies, and a sibling showdown by s3 e9 recap masked singer recap: t-rex eliminated, revealing huge youtube star by s3 e8 recap the sinner season finale recap: into the void by s3 e2 recap westworld recap: maeve returns by s2 e19 recap a million little things season finale recap: is everyone on this show cursed? by s18 e8 recap american idol recap: hollywood week comes to a close with the solo round by s18 e7 recap american idol recap: it's time to duet by s18 e6 recap the voice recap: let the battles begin by s17 e18 recap ncis recap: never con a conman by s16 e19 recap grey's anatomy recap: let the hooking up commence by s15 e13 recap supernatural recap: jack visits the garden of eden by s10 e13 recap the walking dead recap: here's how the show sends off danai gurira's michonne by s1 e5 recap devs recap: blasts from the past by s1 e4 recap little fires everywhere recap: the custody battle begins by s1 e2 recap the plot against america recap: the rise of lindbergh by s1 e10 recap star trek: picard recap: a hero, resurrected by next to read hints about jack’s death from ventimiglia, who calls it an “absolute soul-crushing event,” click here. this is us nbc’s beloved era-hopping drama tells the story of the pearson family through the years. type tv show seasons 4 rating airs tuesdays at 09:00 pm creator dan fogelman network nbc stream service hulu where to watch close streaming options by dan snierson advertisement comments close share options ew.com entertainment weekly magazines & more learn more subscribe this link opens in a new tab content licensing this link opens in a new tab sitemap connect follow us subscribe to our newsletter other meredith sites close other meredith sites allrecipes this link opens in a new tab all people quilt this link opens in a new tab better homes & gardens this link opens in a new tab coastal living this link opens in a new tab cooking light this link opens in a new tab diabetic living this link opens in a new tab eatingwell this link opens in a new tab eat this, not that this link opens in a new tab extra crispy this link opens in a new tab family circle this link opens in a new tab fitness magazine this link opens in a new tab fit pregnancy this link opens in a new tab food & wine this link opens in a new tab health this link opens in a new tab hello giggles this link opens in a new tab instyle this link opens in a new tab martha stewart this link opens in a new tab midwest living this link opens in a new tab martha stewart weddings this link opens in a new tab more this link opens in a new tab myrecipes this link opens in a new tab mywedding this link opens in a new tab my food and family this link opens in a new tab parents this link opens in a new tab parenting this link opens in a new tab people this link opens in a new tab people en español this link opens in a new tab rachael ray magazine this link opens in a new tab real simple this link opens in a new tab shape this link opens in a new tab ser padres this link opens in a new tab siempre mujer this link opens in a new tab southern living this link opens in a new tab traditional home this link opens in a new tab travel & leisure this link opens in a new tab © copyright 2020 meredith corporation. entertainment weekly is a registered trademark of meredith corporation all rights reserved. entertainment weekly may receive compensation for some links to products and services on this website. offers may be subject to change without notice. privacy policythis link opens in a new tab data policythis link opens in a new tab terms of servicethis link opens in a new tab ad choicesthis link opens in a new tab cookie preferencesthis link opens a modal window web accessibilitythis link opens in a new tab © copyright . all rights reserved. printed from https://ew.com close view image this is us creator reassures: 'we're not killing randall this season' this link is to an external site that may or may not meet accessibility guidelines.