search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us season 3: how to watch free in the uk the drama has been renewed all the way to season six. by charley ross and abby robinson 12/12/2019 maarten de boernbc universal calling all this is us fans: the perfect christmas gift is on its way. you will be able to watch season three of the drama on amazon prime video from christmas day, the third instalment joining chapters one and two at its new home after being dropped by more4. earlier this year, us network nbc confirmed its faith in the show by renewing it for a further three seasons, taking it all the way up to season six. ron batzdorff/nbcgetty images for those of you who don't already have amazon prime, you can sign up now and get a 30-day free trial membership. after which you can either choose between the monthly package, which costs £7.99, or sign up for an entire year at £79, which works out at £6.58 per month. if you're not familiar with the netflix rival, it provides unlimited access to more than 15,000 movies and tv shows, including lots of original series – modern love, good omens, the marvelous mrs maisel, the boys, hanna, jack ryan, the grand tour and bosch. it's also the first streaming service to offer high-dynamic range content (expect brighter colours and enhanced areas of shadow). ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty image sign up amazon prime the free trial period lasts for 30 days, during which time you'll need to cancel your subscription if you don't want to continue. after that period, you'll be charged. the other prime perks as well as amazon's tv and movie content, you will also be able to access amazon prime music (you can currently get four months for just 99p) which has more than 1 million tracks. chesnotgetty images all of that information and more is available to read here. there's also a prime video membership that costs £5.99 per month, but doesn't include all of those extras. how to watch amazon prime video amazon prime video is compatible with loads of devices, all of which can be found on amazon's support pages. if you have a smart tv that is fairly new, a set-top box or a modern console, you can log straight in to amazon. the app is free to download from whatever app store is available to you. if you don't have a smart tv, there's always the fire tv stick with alexa voice remote, which costs £39.99. that also allows you to download content from netflix, bbc iplayer, vevo and my5. the first and second seasons of this is us are available to stream on amazon prime now. digital spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter accounts. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us deals us tv tv westworld – how to watch all 3 seasons free how to watch true detective season 3 for free the crown season 3 - how to watch ep 1 free how to watch the flash season 5 for free how to watch the super bowl free in the uk how to watch grey's anatomy season 15 free us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising