search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 "it opens up the show in a way." by ian sandwell 26/02/2018 nbc universal this is us co-showrunner isaac aptaker has teased a major format change for season three of the emotional family drama. to date, the show has mainly been set in the present day, supported by flashbacks filling us in on the lives of the pearson family, with the recent super bowl episode finally showing us how jack died, a moment the whole show had been building to. the end of that episode also had a flash-forward to randall and his grown-up daughter tess, and aptaker told the hollywood reporter that it's "not a one-time thing". "we didn't just do that to be splashy during the super bowl episode. since the beginning that's been something we've known we were going to get to in the show. we had a lot of story we wanted to tell before we got there, but now that we've visited that time, nothing's off the table and we will certainly be returning there in the future," he explained. "it's so much fun for us as writers and storytellers, getting to imagine what these people are up to 10-15 years in the future. we haven't put an exact year on it. it's just like the possibilities are endless. it opens up the show in a way. it adds this whole new colour and dynamic." nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images before we get to those possible flash-forwards in season three, though, we've still got three episodes to go of season two – and fortunately, aptaker promises that there is some happiness in store as the finale features kate and toby's wedding. happiness on this is us? we'll believe it when we see it. this is us airs on tuesdays on nbc in the us. season 2 will be coming to channel 4 this summer in the uk. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us may have hinted at a major death this is us star confirms they will survive s3 will this is us season 3 feature a time jump? this is us cast share major season 2 'spoilers' this is us season 3: everything you need to know the flash will undergo major change for season 6 us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising