search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us showrunner reveals what's next for main cast in season 4 "there's a lot going on here, obviously, it's concerning." by louise mccreesh 28/11/2019 the showrunner of this is us has revealed what's in store for the main cast come the final half of season 4. the series went through a lot of changes before its season 4 midseason finale, including the birth of kate and toby's visually impaired son and the reveal that rebecca (mandy moore) has been diagnosed with dementia. and, speaking recently, this is us showrunner dan fogelman revealed what is in store for the characters when the show returns next year. more heartbreak, of course. 20th television related: this is us boss responds to mid-season finale's big rebecca reveal of an episode dedicated to rebecca's deteriorating dementia, he told people: "i think you would be made of stone if you weren't a little concerned after watching the episode. "there's a lot going on here, obviously, it's concerning." fogelman also teased that actor sterling k brown would have a lot to do, with a "special episode" as randall pearson in the back half of the season. he added: "randall is a giant back half of this season coming up with a couple of specialised episodes that really get inside of him in terms of what's going on in his wiring and what's going on in his mind. "sterling was just in the writer's room and we're doing this special episode towards the end of the season." maarten de boernbc universal related: this is us boss explains huge baby jack twist in season 4 premiere fogelman also suggested "a challenging pocket of year" for kate and toby, adding that viewers will find out more about the future rift between randall and his brother kevin. tragic. this is us season 4 airs on nbc in the us. the show airs on channel 4 and is available on amazon prime in the uk. digital spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter accounts. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv sabrina boss teases what will happen next in s4 strangers things adds this character to main cast insatiable boss explains season 2's big twist what's next for game of thrones after season 8? what's going on with the handmaid's tale season 4? ridley scott reveals what's next for alien franchise us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising