search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us' milo ventimiglia comes to crock-pot's defence in a new super bowl ad #crockpotisinnocent by sarah roker 04/02/2018 nbc universal milo ventimiglia has appeared in a hilarious but assuring promo video ahead of the highly anticipated episode of this is us – which will air after the super bowl this sunday (february 4). milo plays jack pearson on the hit tv show this is us – and at the end of the last episode, jack was seen pottering around the kitchen and tidying the place up. before he headed up to bed though, he switched off the family's crock-pot. however, due to its age, it's clearly become a little faulty. the slow cooker switches itself back on and starts a fire, and it's this that many fans believe will kill off the character. nbc universal now, in the promo video ahead of tonight's american football final, milo has asked people to "forgive" and to come together during this politically fractured time. he says: "the big game is fast approaching and for many of us, this day brings us an opportunity to gather with friends and family, loved ones we don't get to see all that often. "but in 2018, gathering friends and family, well, it's not as easy as what it used to be. the country is divided. nbc universal "sometimes that can make it tough to find common ground, but this year … this year, i think we should all take a deep breath, find the ability to forgive, and remind ourselves there is no difference so great that we can't overcome it." the promo ends with him spooning out some chilli from the crock-pot using the hashtag #crockpotisinnocent. it's sure to appease fans – who initially responded to the potentially deadly crock-pot from the show by tweeting about the kitchen device and swearing to stop using the appliance again. milo reminds us to come together for the big game. watch this is us on nbc, sunday, february 4. pic.twitter.com/iawc1llcwj — this is us (@nbcthisisus) february 3, 2018 the series creator dan fogelman even responded to the outrage himself and posted: "taking a moment to remind everyone that it was a 20 year old fictional crockpot with an already funky switch? let's not just limp all those lovely hardworking crock pots together." taking a moment to remind everyone that it was a 20 year old fictional crockpot with an already funky switch? let's not just lump all those lovely hardworking crockpots together. #thisisus — dan fogelman (@dan_fogelman) january 24, 2018 super bowl lii is due to kick off at 11:30pm gmt. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us tv milo ventimiglia: to bang or not to bang? milo ventimiglia excited about 'rest' this is us star shares his "biggest heartbreak" on show milo ventimiglia: nice arms, nice bum face off: jake gyllenhaal vs milo ventimiglia milo ventimiglia leads 'crime empire' cast us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising