search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us star confirms one major character will not die in season 3 that's one less heartbreak to worry about. by stephanie chase 15/06/2018 ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty image this is us fans can breathe a sigh of relief as star susan kelechi watson has confirmed her character beth pearson will not be killed off next season. when season two ended fans were worried about beth's fate when a flashforward showed beth's husband randall (sterling k. brown) telling his now grown-up daughter tess (iantha richardson) that it was "time go see her". one fan theory about who just who "her" is centred on beth, with some thinking she was either seriously ill or even dead. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images but speaking to entertainment weekly, watson assured fans she's not going anywhere. "dan (fogelman, this is us creator) and i spoke about it — they're not going to kill beth. she's going to survive. it feels good to know," watson said. the actress also admitted she never even considered she might be killed off until she heard about the fan theory. getty images related story this is us season 3: everything you need to know "when i saw people tweeting about it, writing articles about it, i was like, 'oh, they're kidding!' my first thought was, 'oh, this is hilarious,'" watson said. "and then people really took it seriously." maarten de boernbc universal as for who the mystery "her" is, watson didn't give anything away, teasing that she's keeping it a mystery. "i still think there's mystery there, and i understand why," she said. "dan would like us to keep it there, so i'm going to stay away from it! that's as much as i can say." want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 this is us may have hinted at a major death marvel's daredevil casts major character for season 3 will this is us season 3 feature a time jump? this is us cast share major season 2 'spoilers' this is us season 3: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising