search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us boss responds to mid-season finale's big rebecca reveal "it's really blowing us away." by amy west 20/11/2019 warning: this article contains spoilers for this is us season 4 episode 9 'so long, marianne' this is us co-showrunner isaac aptaker has opened up about the revelation on rebecca pearson's health in this week's (november 19) mid-season finale. in season 4 episode 9, a nine-month flash-forward offers a heartbreaking look into rebecca's battle with dementia. speaking about the storyline, isaac explained that it was the character's star mandy moore who ensured they portrayed the condition in the most "authentic" way possible. 20th television related: this is us renewed for three more seasons after the non-linear episode offered audiences more insight into rebecca's deteriorating health, isaac told tvline: "for this one, i think it’s such a testament to mandy and the work that she’s doing. "remember, this is a woman in her 30s, who hasn't even had a family yet, who's now playing a grandmother dealing with dementia and this onset of stuff that doesn’t happen until much later in life. "it's so far beyond mandy’s own personal experience, so she's doing so much work as an actor." he went on to say that moore made a conscious effort to talk to experts on dementia, as well as "people who've been personally touched by this" before they started filming the storyline. 20th television related: this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 "all those little details that she's bringing to the performance are the result of that research and the work that she is doing to accurately portray this," isaac continued. "it's really blowing us away." when asked how rebecca's illness might impact the rest of the pearson family, he kept his cards close to his chest, saying that he doesn't "want to get ahead of our storytelling". fans shouldn't worry themselves too much though, as he went on to note that by the beginning of season 5, the show will have caught up to the scene that played out in the flash-forward. "everyone's questions about rebecca and her status and how things have progressed will be answered." digital spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter accounts. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv the sinner boss explains season 2 finale's major twists the 100 boss hints at s6 after finale's stunning twists suits boss explains that big midseason finale twist 24: legacy bosses talk about finale's shock death insatiable boss explains season 2's big twist dc's titans boss reflects on finale's surprise us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising