search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us star milo ventimiglia teases jack's death is a 'f**king painful soul-crushing event' 'people are going to find themselves surprised with their own emotion.' by bea mitchell 24/01/2018 nbc universal warning: this article contains spoilers from the most recent episode of this is us. this is us star milo ventimiglia has teased that jack's death will be "an absolute soul-crushing event". the latest episode of the second season, 'that'll be the day', saw the pearson family kitchen go up in flames after jack inadvertently left the slow cooker on thanks to a faulty switch, and it now looks like the much-loved character will meet his maker in the blaze. "once you figure out the moment where it's going to happen, you may get some hope – and then it's all going to go away," ventimiglia told entertainment weekly. "i think the best thing i can say – or the worst thing i can say – is, it's going to be f**king painful." nbc universal ventimiglia went on to reveal that "people are going to find themselves surprised with their own emotion" when they see jack's final moments play out. however, he went on to add: "they should know that even when we do find out jack's death, it doesn't mean that jack goes away. "that's a good thing to remind people of — i'm not going away from the show, jack is still around. there is still so much story to mine in this world of this is us." 20th century fox this is us amped up the heartbreak on last week's episode 'clooney' after what appeared to be an ominous foreshadowing of jack's death. in the episode, jack is reminded to buy some batteries – but he forgets. this is followed by an ominous shot of a battery-less smoke detector. given that earlier in the series we were shown a grieving rebecca (mandy moore) in front of a burned-down house, it was the biggest clue yet to jack's fate, and the events of this week's episode pretty much confirmed all those theories. this is us airs on nbc in the us. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from us tv picard star is finished playing their iconic role how wwe is ensuring safety during wrestlemania 36 advertisement - continue reading below how picard's finale fixed an old star trek mistake new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now wwe's shayna baszler talks biting becky lynch picard reveals major star trek character is queer grey's fans worried about major character's fate dirty john season 2 trailer features mr robot star why duncanville isn't just another simpsons ozark season 4: everything you need to know us tv tv milo ventimiglia: to bang or not to bang? this is us star shares his "biggest heartbreak" on show this is us star says death isn't the end for jack milo ventimiglia excited about 'rest' this is us's mandy moore teases jack's fate this is us star told he's "too old" to play batman us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising