search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. mandy moore promises this is us fans "will get answers" during super bowl episode "people will be able to move forward." by sarah james 28/01/2018 nbc universal warning: this article contains spoilers from the most recent episode of this is us, which aired in the us on january 23. this is us is unquestionably about to break fans' hearts, as all signs point to jack pearson (played by milo ventimiglia) being killed in a house fire – but star mandy moore is still excited for fans to see the next episode. "i can't wait for fans to see our super bowl episode," she told et online. "people will get a lot of answers and will be able to move forward," she added. "i think for everybody's sake it'll be a good thing." nbc universal this is us was confirmed to have landed the coveted post super bowl slot last year and the show plans to use the time slot to finally reveal how jack died to audiences. jack's tragic ending has been foreshadowed in the last few episodes of the show, as his forgetting to buy batteries lead to an ominous shot of a unused smoke detector, and a faulty switch on a slow cooker saw the family kitchen engulfed by flames in the latest episode of the us drama. "i think the best thing i can say – or the worst thing i can say – is, it's going to be f**king painful," milo ventimiglia has said about the upcoming episode. and despite moore's promise that there will be answers, the cast have said previously that the circumstances leading to jack's death are just a piece of the puzzle. twentieth century fox "a big piece," ventimiglia said after the season two premiere revealed the pearsons' burnt down house for the first time. "this helps. it's like a pressure valve released a little bit. but as dan has always said, 'with this answer there's still a lot of questions.'" but don't worry – that won't be the end of jack's role in this is us. "milo is number one on the call sheet — he isn't going anywhere," moore reassured fans. this is us airs on nbc in the us. the as-yet untitled super bowl episode airs on sunday, february 4. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from us tv picard star is finished playing their iconic role how wwe is ensuring safety during wrestlemania 36 advertisement - continue reading below how picard's finale fixed an old star trek mistake new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now wwe's shayna baszler talks biting becky lynch picard reveals major star trek character is queer grey's fans worried about major character's fate dirty john season 2 trailer features mr robot star why duncanville isn't just another simpsons ozark season 4: everything you need to know us tv tv this is us lands the coveted post-super bowl slot this is us's mandy moore teases jack's fate this is us finally reveals how jack pearson died this is us's super bowl episode will surprise you mandy moore's this is us is getting two more seasons 'glee' super bowl episode 'is beautiful' us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising