search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us season 4 trailer unveils first look at surprising new guest stars just a few more weeks until the new season premieres. by filiz mehmedova 01/09/2019 an all-new trailer for this is us season 4 has unveiled a first look at some of the surprising guest stars who will be making an appearance in the upcoming episodes. the new promo video, released for the fourth season's extended premiere episode 'strangers', teases a whole bunch of new characters – including once upon a time star jennifer morrison making her tv comeback. among the other new cast members glimpsed in the trailer are when they see us stars asante blackk and marsha stephanie blake as well as the sixth sense director m night shyamalan. nbc universal related: this is us creator opens up about major character's fate after heartbreaking season 3 finale keen-eyed viewers will also see the likes of bahara golestani (animal kingdom), timothy omundson (psych: the movie), julian silva (queen of the south), auden thornton (doubt), nick wechsler (shades of blue) and omar epps (house), although the details of all of their roles in the show are yet to be confirmed. the promo trailer opens up with mandy moore's character rebecca pearson as she sits in a car with her husband jack (milo ventimiglia) and reflects on the unexpected moments that happen in life and how they have the potential to change everything. nbc universal related: this is us fate confirmed as nbc announces three more seasons "it's so strange, isn't it?" rebecca says. "how just like that a complete stranger can become such a big part of your story. "it's actually kind of terrifying, you know? how a single cross with one person you've never met can change everything." meanwhile, sterling k brown, who plays randall pearson on the nbc drama, recently revealed that the fourth season will be "disruptive" and is set to "broaden" the world of the show. maarten de boernbc universal we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. "[the new season is] really cool and it broadens our world in a way," he told entertainment weekly. "we're not necessarily understanding how characters are connected to the pearson plan at large… there will be something that is disruptive, from the beginning." this is us season four will air on tuesday, september 24 on nbc in the us. the show airs on channel 4 and is available on amazon prime in the uk. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv netflix's castlevania unveils season 3 trailer first look at supergirl's lgbtq+ hero dreamer game of thrones season 4: first look pictures riverdale brings drag with musical first look the crown s3 trailer reveals new cast in action better call saul season 4 first-look trailer is here us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising