search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us season 4: how to watch it in the uk, spoilers, release date, episodes, cast and everything you need to know fans of the show are going to "get a lot of answers". by abby robinson 03/07/2019 it's very good news, this is us fans. not only is the nbc dramedy returning for season four, it's also been renewed for two more seasons after that, taking the total to six and the run through to 2022. "three years ago, we were live-tweeting the premiere of our tv show, hoping someone, anyone might watch... today our friends at @nbc picked up #thisisus for three more seasons, bringing us to six," said show creator dan fogelman on twitter. three years ago, we were live tweeting the premiere of our tv show, hoping someone, anyone might watch... today our friends at @nbc picked up #thisisus for three more seasons, bringing us to six. pic.twitter.com/0osa6xbuyc — dan fogelman (@dan_fogelman) may 12, 2019 "in a television landscape with nearly 500 original scripted series, there are very few, if any, that have the critical and cultural impact of this is us and we couldn't be more proud to bring fans three more seasons of a show that so well represents the nbc brand," said lisa katz and tracey pakosta, presidents of scripted programming for nbc entertainment, in a statement. so, what does the next chapter hold? here's everything you need to know about this is us season four. this is us season 4: how to watch it in the uk seasons one and two are currently available to stream on amazon prime, but the third season, as well as the upcoming fourth, don't have uk air dates yet. the first season aired on channel 4 in the uk before switching to more4, so when it does eventually make its way over here, we'd expect to see it there once again. this is us season 4 spoilers: what will happen? when speaking at the this is us paleyfest panel earlier this year (via variety), fogelman promised that fans will "get a lot of answers" in season four. "obviously there's a tremendous amount of attention on randall and beth's storyline," he said. "there will be an answer there in terms of the long-term health of their relationship. "we have all of our storylines building to that in the last episode. it's kind of gigantic. the last five minutes of the episode are sprawling." nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images he added: "our world's going to expand a little bit in a really interesting way. i think where we're starting the season is as ambitious as we've been. we have a plan; we're at the midpoint. we know where we're going, we know what we're doing. i'm more excited about the back half of the plan than the front half." chatting to entertainment weekly, fogelman said that there will be "restarts for everybody". "and midpoints," he added. "i think it's going to be very ambitious and sprawling in terms of how it plays with time. "many of our characters are in the middle of their stories, and that's a point where characters are opening up to new things and new things are starting. that becomes a very exciting period for almost all of the characters, and for some of them, maybe a very scary period in terms of how fraught their storylines are." fogelman also told entertainment tonight that he thinks episode one is going to cause quite a stir. "i can't tell [you] much about the storyline, but i think the first episode... people will be talking about it. it's different and unusual." nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images mandy moore and milo ventimiglia both revealed to tvline that their story will pick up back in pittsburgh, after jack and rebecca's visit to california. "rebecca is having to swallow that there's going to be part of this person that she loves that she won’t be able to talk about," said moore. "that's an interesting place to begin a relationship." fogelman also said that rebecca's father will "be a prominent part of the show", and that the season four flash-forward scene will "be a big part of" the finale. when asked by entertainment weekly if rebecca is going to suffer from dementia or alzheimer's in the future following that scene with randall, fogelman said, "all i can say about rebecca's status is, i don't think that your read is a read that would be unexpected based off the limited amount of material we've seen. "but there are other things that could be going on there as well. you wouldn't be able to know it just from that. there could be many suspicions as to what is ailing rebecca, including just ageing and being in that place of life. "the read of it being alzheimer's and dementia is not unexpected – it doesn't mean it's necessarily right." ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images chrissy metz also revealed that baby jack "will be five months when we get back", which indicates a slight jump forward in time from the season three finale. and sterling k brown told tvline that the pearson's are "going from a white neighbourhood in new jersey to a very diverse and also a very african-american neighbourhood in philadelphia, and i think it’s a really exciting opportunity for randall." this is us season 4 release date: when will it air? season four will air on tuesday, september 24 on nbc in the us. as for a uk air date, there's nothing to report on that at the moment. this is us season 4 episodes: how many can we expect? just like seasons one to three, the fourth chapter will also have 18 episodes, which means you should expect plenty more drama and a bucket load of tears once again. this is us season 4 cast: who's in it? how i met your mother and once upon a time actor jennifer morrison will be joining the cast in a major recurring role, according to tvline. while details about what her role will entail are being kept secret, we do know that she will have a "substantial" presence. some fans think that she could play rebecca's sister, or possibly a love interest for either kevin or tess. jack rowandabc and then there's all your favourites, who will be back for the next chapter: mandy moore as rebecca, milo ventimiglia as jack, chrissy metz as kate, justin hartley as kevin, sterling k brown as randall, susan kelechi watson as beth, chris sullivan as toby, jon huertas as miguel, griffin dunne as nicky, lyric ross as deja, faithe herman as annie, eris baker as tess, iantha richardson as adult tess, and melanie liburd as zoe. this is us season 4 trailer: when can we watch it? not just yet. but we should get a full length trailer in the month leading up to the premiere, so expect one at the end of august/beginning of september. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv the handmaid's tale season 4: all you need to know john wick 4: everything you need to know jumanji 4: everything you need to know netflix's élite season 4: all you need to know westworld season 4: everything you need to know bull season 5: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising