search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us season 3: release date, cast, spoilers and everything you need to know how are they going to make us cry this time? by ian sandwell 05/07/2018 warning: contains spoilers for this is us. nbc were so confident that they were onto a winner with dan fogelman's weepie timey-wimey family drama this is us that they renewed it for a second and third season at the same time. when the second chapter wrapped up, we finally discovered how jack had died. but while that mystery was solved, there's still a lot left to delve into. here's everything you nee to know about this is us season three. this is us season 3 release date: when can we expect it? nbc have confirmed that they're sticking to the usual late september slot for season three, which will premiere on tuesday, september 25. 20th century fox channel 4 aired the first season in the uk, with the show moving to sister channel more4 for season two which finally started on july 4, so don't expect season three until 2019. this is us season 3 cast: who's coming back? given the dual timelines of the show, death doesn't mean the end for a character, so expect to see milo ventimiglia back as jack pearson. in season two, the show brought back ron cephas jones as randall's biological father william, but jones won't be a series regular in season three due to his new role in apple's upcoming thriller are you sleeping, but will still be seen as a recurring character. rgarding what's next for the character, ventimiglia said: "if jack died in 1998, when the kids are 17, there's still a lot to know – different sides of him, what made him, what shaped him, what inspired his romance with his wife, what happened with he and his brother in war…. "that we've invested as much as we have as an audience in 32 hours is pretty remarkable. there's a lot of life left in him – even in death, there's a lot of life left in jack." nbcu photo bank/maarten de boergetty images other guaranteed comebacks include mandy moore as rebecca pearson, sterling k brown as randall pearson, chrissy metz as kate pearson and justin hartley as kevin pearson, along with the stars that portray their teenage and younger selves. susan kelechi watson as randall's wife beth, chris sullivan as toby damon, jon huertas as miguel rivas and alexandra breckenridge as sophie are also among those likely to return for season three. maarten de boernbc universal this is us crockpot: how did jack die? moore promised that there would be "a lot of answers" in the show's post-super bowl episode and ventimiglia warned it would be "f**king painful". and so it was. the previous episode ended on a cliffhanger when the family's slow-cooker sparked a fire after the pearson family had all gone to bed, except for kevin who was spending the night with sophie after an argument with his parents. jack was shown saving his family, the dog and some possessions form the house, before succumbing to smoke inhalation and dying of cardiac complications at the hospital. waaaaahh. nbc universal one thing's for sure, this is us fans no longer trust their crock-pot slow cookers with the company having to defend their product in a lengthy technical statement. "for nearly 50 years, with over 100 million crock-pots sold, we have never received any consumer complaints similar to the fictional events portrayed in last night's episode," it read. and fogelman himself took to twitter to assure fans that it was a "20-year-old fictional crockpot with an already funky switch". taking a moment to remind everyone that it was a 20 year old fictional crockpot with an already funky switch? let's not just lump all those lovely hardworking crockpots together. #thisisus — dan fogelman (@dan_fogelman) january 24, 2018 ventimiglia, who plays jack, also defended crock-pot in a super bowl commercial. this is us season 3 spoilers: what will it be about? fans have known that after jack's death, rebecca got together with his best friend miguel and moore has been teasing that their relationship will be a "big focus" of season three. "it's hard to imagine jack without rebecca, and rebecca without jack, and that she did move on with her life. i feel like that is going to be the biggest battle of the show... getting people to become team miguel," she told extra. ron batzdorff/nbcgetty images ventimiglia has also been teasing that fans "won't see what's coming" in season three for jack. "people have an idea and they think they do but man, you have no idea. you won't see what's coming," he added. fans have also been worried that the show is gearing up to kill off randall as their next big character death after a conversation between randall and kevin which saw kevin tell him "you're not going anywhere". but fogelman has explained that season three (probably) won't kill off randall, while leaving the door open. "listen, i can't reassure anybody of anything. i can assure everybody that we're not killing randall this season, so everybody can relax," he told ew. "we're not [hinting at] anybody's death [in that scene], but it's always interesting the way that people view their own mortality." nbcgetty images this is us co-showrunner isaac aptaker has also teased a major format change, with the show continuing to experiment with flash-forwards after featuring scenes with an older randall and his grown-up daughter tess in season two. aptaker told the hollywood reporter that it's "not a one-time thing" and that "now that we've visited that time, nothing's off the table and we will certainly be returning there in the future." ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty image season two's finale featured one such flash-forward that had fans fearing for beth (susan kelechi watson), as randall told his now-adult daughter, "it's time to go see her, tess." "i'm not ready," tess replied. this is us viewers have assumed that the "her" in question is tess's mother - and, and after the super bowl episode flash-forwards left her out, they've interpreted this scene as a hint that beth is on her way out. *sob* fortunately, watson has confirmed that tess will survive season three. "they're not going to kill beth. she's going to survive. it feels good to know," she explained. phew. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images other glimpses at future events in season two's finale saw kevin and zoe flying to vietnam together, while kate nurses a cripplingly depressed toby (now her husband after the two were wed in the episode's present-day scenes). related: sterling k brown knows exactly what happens in a major this is us season 3 spoiler fogelman has also revealed that he's already "shot pieces of the final scene in the series", but unless the show's ratings dramatically drop, we doubt we'll be seeing them anytime soon. this is us season 3 trailer: when's it landing? nbc released the first trailer for season two during its upfronts presentation in may 2017, but we were denied a similar sneak peek this year and season three's first teaser is yet to emerge. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us tv features ustv features features us tv tv unreal season 3: everything you need to know the gifted season 2: everything you need to know handmaid's tale season 3: all you need to know supernatural season 14: everything you need to know designated survivor season 3: all you need to know paddington 3: everything you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising