skip to content ktla hollywood, los angeles 64° sponsored by toggle menu open navigation close navigation search primary menu watch live 📺 coronavirus news local news california nation/world politics election results 🗳 5 live food entertainment technology sports visionaries top stories riverside county officials warn of virus’ impact after 25-year-old pharmacy worker found dead top stories nra and 3 other gun groups suing l.a. county sheriff villanueva over shutting down firearms dealers gov. newsom issues statewide ban on evictions for renters until june 1 disneyland, walt disney world closed until further notice due to coronavirus for older americans, isolation under coronavirus changes life in varied, nuanced ways morning news news entertainment food california cooking technology traffic contests gayle anderson dr. jandial top stories open for business: the griddle cafe is open for postmates deliveries and curbside pickups video top stories matchmaker constance curtis on how we can virtual date during a pandemic video mamba sports academy goes digital with strength and performance workouts video dr. david katz discusses his new york times op ed, ‘is our fight against coronavirus worse than the disease?’ video dr. hooman melamed with advice and exercises to relieve safer-at-home back pain video podcasts california cooking diva defined frank buckley interviews home made keepin’ it friel mama mentality rich on tech spoken dreams the news director’s office top stories ep.10 end of week check-in | coronavirus daily podcast audio top stories in the kitchen with haylie duff | california cooking podcast audio ep.9 hope for the best, expect the worst | coronavirus daily podcast audio dos & don’ts of working from home with rich demuro | the news director’s office audio ep.8 immunity boost | coronavirus daily podcast audio contests weather news tips about news team contact us tv schedule advertise with ktla community calendar job openings internships terms of use share media with ktla public file and eeo help get a copy of a news story do not sell my personal information search search search previous alert 1 of / 2 next alert breaking news breaking news gov. newsom issues statewide ban on evictions for renters until june 1 1 of / 2 breaking news o.c. announces 2 more deaths, provides new city-by-city figures 2 of / 2 this millennial makes a living travelling the world and snapchatting about it technology by: chadwick phillips, rich demuro posted: mar 18, 2016 / 04:00 am pdt / updated: mar 18, 2016 / 04:00 am pdt this is an archived article and the information in the article may be outdated. please look at the time stamp on the story to see when it was last updated. please enable javascript to watch this video 74 countries in 3 years! this globetrotting millennial is making a business out of snapchatting his adventures. before college, 24 year old drew binsky had never even been out of the country. now, he’s making a living by sharing his globetrotting adventures on snapchat. follow ktla tech reporter rich demuro on facebook or twitter for cool apps, tech tricks & tips! i caught up with drew in hollywood. i recently caught up the millennial during a stop in los angeles. he's equal parts inspiring and adventurous. drew makes money by teaming up with brands who want to promote something his followers might be interested. he explained to me "for example, i’ll work with like vietnam tourism and they’ll invite me out for a week and they’ll give me a schedule and they’ll give me x amount of money and i’ll just go do it and then write about it and post about it and i’ll have to tag them and help them promote their service or you know, company and that’s it." one of drew's many "snaps" a majority of his following is on snapchat - just a single "snap" can yield tens of thousands of views - all from a highly engaged audience hungry for more. his ultimate goal is to inspire people to travel. although it all looks like fun and games, there is food poisoning (7 times), a lot of time spent on airplanes and, of course, working. "i probably work 8 hours a day just like anybody else does," said drew. the exception being that "the cool thing is i can work from any place where there’s wifi." snapchatter drew binsky on a camel his favorite place is southeast asia, including vietnam, philippines, and thailand. drew says they have the "nicest people, cheap food, and amazing culture." drew eating scorpions on his new show "travel hungry" drew just finished shooting a travel series in asia he is crowdfunding called "travel hungry." "i was eating some really crazy things. i drank snake blood, i ate scorpions … i’ve eaten live octopus," said drew. further proof you can live your dreams if you put your mind to it - if you don't mind a little food poisoning in the process. follow drew: snapchat instagram thehungrypartier.com close modal suggest a correction your name(required) your email(required) report a typo or grammatical error(required) submit suggest a correction share this story more technology stories streaming freebies to take advantage of while you’re stuck at home by meghan mcmonigle, rich demuro / mar 27, 2020 streaming subscriptions feeling a little stale? here are some free ways to spruce them up! many streaming services are offering free ways to watch or extended free trials to get you through these stay at home times. follow tech reporter rich demuro on instagram for more tech news, tips and gadgets! read the full article audio tech smart: mentioned on tv mar 26, 2020 here's what i mentioned on air! thursday, march 26, 2020 read the full article the dream of working from home just became a reality for many. these workers share their pros and cons by rich demuro, meghan mcmonigle / mar 25, 2020 for many, the idea of working from home sounds like a dream. suddenly, it's a new reality for millions of employees across the nation. i checked in with several folks who are now working from home to find out what they like and don't like about the new setup. read the full article audio top stories riverside county officials warn of virus’ impact after 25-year-old pharmacy worker found dead nra and 3 other gun groups suing l.a. county sheriff villanueva over shutting down firearms dealers gov. newsom issues statewide ban on evictions for renters until june 1 disneyland, walt disney world closed until further notice due to coronavirus for older americans, isolation under coronavirus changes life in varied, nuanced ways orange county death toll from coronavirus rises to 3 as city-by-city data becomes available more stories all l.a. county beaches closing to curb spread of coronavirus san bernardino county reports 3rd coronavirus death, an 89-year-old woman ex-l.a. councilman mitchell englander to plead guilty in corruption case l.a. county coronavirus cases surge past 1,400 after 257 more people diagnosed; 5 new deaths reported video read more stories most popular orange county death toll from coronavirus rises to 3 as city-by-city data becomes available l.a. county coronavirus cases surge past 1,400 after 257 more people diagnosed; 5 new deaths reported video trump signs $2.2 trillion stimulus package video lancaster mayor releases new details about 17-year-old boy whose death was initially tied to covid-19 video gov. newsom issues statewide ban on evictions for renters until june 1 coronavirus u.s. navy ship mercy docks in port of l.a., becoming largest hospital in the city amid pandemic video latest news riverside county officials warn of virus’ impact after 25-year-old pharmacy worker found dead local news / 5 mins ago nra and 3 other gun groups suing l.a. county sheriff villanueva over shutting down firearms dealers local news / 12 mins ago gov. newsom issues statewide ban on evictions for renters until june 1 california / 4 mins ago disneyland, walt disney world closed until further notice due to coronavirus local news / 1 hour ago for older americans, isolation under coronavirus changes life in varied, nuanced ways news / 2 hours ago orange county death toll from coronavirus rises to 3 as city-by-city data becomes available local news / 4 mins ago more news ktla on instagram ktla on facebook ktla on twitter tweets by ktla forecast for central l.a. current 64° clear tonight 49° clear precip: 10% tomorrow 68° times of sun and clouds precip: 10% follow us facebook twitter youtube news app watch live 📺 coronavirus news morning news podcasts contests weather news tips about online public file terms of use privacy policy watch cw shows do not sell my personal information © 1998 - 2020 nexstar broadcasting, inc. | all rights reserved. × close ad