petapixel news equipment tutorials archives send a tip links about contact advertise privacy policy full disclosure search type here what you are looking for search 500 k 1 m facebook 500 k / likes twitter 1 m / followers this site lets you compare hundreds of popular lightroom presets side-by-side mar 27, 2020 dl cade share tweet 0 a new website called compare presets wants to help photographers find the perfect lightroom preset for them. it does this by letting you compare hundreds of popular lightroom presets side-by-side, on multiple genres of photo, and using raw files from all of the most popular camera makers. the site was created by photographer steven inge, and it works like a “blind taste test,” allowing you to compare results side-by-side without injecting your own personal bias. “the problem that i’m trying to solve is that photographers typically buy presets just guessing that they will like them,” inge tells petapixel. “sometimes they don’t look great on their photos, or their camera, and they don’t live up to the expectations built up from seeing the amazing photos that the preset makers show off as samples.” there’s where a blind comparison of hundreds of options (currently about 200, but he plans to keep a rotating selection of 300 on the site) comes in. when you visit compare presets and scroll down, you’re greeted by a dialog box that lets you pick from a variety of cameras and genres. note that not every camera (or even camera brand) is represented yet, and some newer cameras are limited in the number of genres available, but the big three are pretty well represented. once you’ve picked your camera, your genre, and a photo to test on, click the “start comparing” button to see the first round of 10 presets. pick the 2 looks you like best to give the site a sense of your personal “style,” and the algorithm will then lead you through several more blind, side-by-side comparisons just like it, the presets becoming more and more similar each time. at the final step, you’ll pick your top 3 and compare presets will reveal the brands of preset you chose. you can create a profile and “sign in” if you want to save your favorites, but you don’t have to. you can simply go back again and again and try this “blind taste test” as many times as you like, using different cameras and genres as needed. the site makes its money by using affiliate links at the results page. otherwise, compare presets is totally free. compare presets only launched yesterday, so there’s a lot of growing left to do. inge says new presets are being added weekly, captureone and mobile presets will be added soon, and new cameras/raw photos will be added to the site “about 3 times per year.” for now, your mileage may vary, but the vast majority of photographers should find the tool very useful when shopping for presets. to learn more or give it a shot for yourself, head over to the compare presets website and give it a go. tags: adobelightroom, blindcomparison, blindtest, compare, comparepresets, lightroom, lightroompresets, photoediting, postprocessing, presets, retouching, sidebyside, sidebysidecomparison share tweet 0 please enable javascript to view the comments powered by disqus. prev these artists are using photoshop to encourage people to #stayathome next i used my drone to take fun portraits of people in self-isolation trending posts photos of the robots living among us mar 25, 2020 sony spins off camera business into separate company mar 26, 2020 adobe is giving everyone 2 months of free creative cloud — here’s how to get it mar 18, 2020 a boston event photographer shares her story of contracting covid-19 mar 24, 2020 21 portrait photography lessons from 21 great photographers mar 25, 2020 nat geo: those viral animal photos you’ve been seeing on twitter are fake mar 24, 2020 the library of fake ‘travel photos’ in asia mar 24, 2020 photographer died protecting his film during the 1980 mt. st. helens eruption sep 07, 2011 ilford: stockpile rolls of film, not toilet paper mar 25, 2020 70 inspirational quotes for photographers may 29, 2014 polaroid originals reclaims ‘polaroid’ name, unveils polaroid now camera mar 26, 2020 drone photos of singapore shot at 1,640 feet mar 23, 2020 i used my drone to take fun portraits of people in self-isolation 7 hours ago nikon z vs nikon d: a comparison mar 24, 2020 portraits in the time of coronavirus: shooting free front porch photo sessions mar 25, 2020 the supreme court just decided that states cannot be sued for copyright infringement mar 23, 2020 how to turn your bedroom into a giant camera and use it to make pictures mar 24, 2020 eerie drone footage of an empty san francisco during quarantine mar 26, 2020 adobe offers students free at-home access to creative cloud apps amid coronavirus closures mar 13, 2020 this obstacle avoiding drone is so fast it can play dodgeball mar 25, 2020 archives news gear inspiration tutorials reviews archives podcast copyright © 2020 petapixel subscribe our newsletter to stay up to date 500 k 1 m