news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals connect with us knowtechie connect with us news #gametechie google android ios facebook amazon apple gadgets microsoft wtf reviews gadgets apple watch airpods ipad smartphones audio more gadgets #gametechie nintendo switch xbox one playstation 4 sony microsoft nintendo pc how-to apps ios android windows 10 mac tech gadgets kickstarter indiegogo #dronetechie security pc pc hardware #vapetechie bluetooth software privacy ai crypto vr mobile apps samsung iphone smartphones internet social youtube twitter instagram snapchat deals deals this robot vacuum is down to just $139 for knowtechie readers $139 is a great price for a robot vacuum. don’t pass this up. by knowtechie deals march 25, 2020 image: knowtechie our very own curtis silver had the privilege of reviewing this robotic vacuum from dser yesterday, and from his time with it, he really liked it, giving the vac a review score of 7 out of 10. that’s not bad, especially coming from curtis (he’s not easy to please). thanks to his review, the good folks over at dser are offering knowtechie readers an exclusive discount that brings the robo-vac down to just $139 with code r9m6a8fw. it normally sells for $220. here’s a quick excerpt from curtis’ review: whatever the immediate future holds in that regard, i will be walking into it without dirty feet caused by walking around in my own filth. the dser robogeek 21t has assured me of that, as it bounces off obstacles and cleans under the tiny couch for the nth time. eventually, it will clean every corner of this floor to then start again. yea, he likes it, and we are sure you will too. for $139, you really can’t go wrong when comparing other robot vacuum prices. this is by far one of the cheapest options on the market. if you’re planning on scooping this up, just be sure to enter the promo code at checkout to get the discount. the code expires on march 27, so be sure to get it before then. click the button below for more info. see at amazon editors’ recommendations: one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now this infrared forehead thermometer is down to just $56 right now just a heads up, if you buy something through our links, we may get a small share of the sale. click here for more. related topicsamazondeals knowtechie deals hooking you up with the best deals on gadgets, gaming, technology and everything else under the sun. comments headlines trending videos how-to how to see who likes you on tinder without paying for tinder gold deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) #gametechie animal crossing is helping me keep my terrible sleep habits in check tech hangover tech hangover: jeff bezos’ rich ass is asking the public for money for amazon’s relief fund apps the best meditation apps to cut through the noise #gametechie due to coronavirus quarantines, gamers in italy are clogging up the country’s bandwidth apps the best new ios and android apps to download in march 2020 #gametechie one nba team plans to continue its suspended season within nba 2k20 buying guide the best bidets you can buy on amazon now that toilet paper is all sold out #porntechie pornhub offers free premium porn to the world to wank away the coronavirus blues #gametechie the best android puzzlers to keep you occupied during these trying times #gametechie review roundup: half-life: alyx – a vr title that gets it right #gametechie the best games to play on xcloud while you quarantine #gametechie the best calming games to play while you’re quarantined entertainment here’s everything coming to netflix in april 2020 advertisement more in deals these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) these are a whole lot better than standard airpods and a whole lot cheaper. one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now probably wouldn’t hurt scooping up a few at this price. snag a copy of borderlands 3 for just $20 on both xbox one and ps4 listen, paying $20 vs. the regular $60 is an absolute no-brainer. razer’s blackwidow essential mechanical keyboard is just $55 right now this is one of the best prices we've seen to date on this. this infrared forehead thermometer is down to just $56 right now in times like these, you might really need this. this iphone x/xs battery charging case is only $13 right now for prime members it doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure out this is a deal that... snag a philips hue starter kit for just $120 in this one-day sale if you're looking to dip your toes into the world of smart lights, this... whoa, civilization vi is down to just $15 for the nintendo switch if animal crossing isn't your thing, this sure is. one of anker’s best wireless chargers is down to just $9 right now these sony noise-canceling wireless earbuds are down to just $99 right now (normally $230) home about us contact disclosures privacy policy copyright © 2019 knowtechie