search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us casts west wing star in recurring role for season 4 the family are getting a little bit bigger. by joe anderton 18/09/2019 maarten de boernbc universal time-hopping drama this is us is adding a familiar face for its fourth season, expanding the family just a little bit more. as revealed by the hollywood reporter, actor tim matheson is joining the show. you'll probably know him best from the west wing and national lampoon's animal house, or even for popping up in jumanji: welcome to the jungle and the recent child's play. he will take on the role of the previously unseen father of rebecca, played by mandy moore. rebecca is quite close to her dad and is closer to him than she is her mother, who she has a very strained relationship with. kevin wintergetty images season 4 will also feature a host of new stars in smaller roles, including once upon a time star jennifer morrison, when they see us stars asante blackk and marsha stephanie blake as well as the sixth sense director m night shyamalan. as for what fans can expect, randall pearson actor sterling k brown recently revealed that the fourth season will be "disruptive" and is set to "broaden" the world of the show. we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. "we're not necessarily understanding how characters are connected to the pearson plan at large," he said. "there will be something that is disruptive, from the beginning." this is us season 4 will air on tuesday, september 24 on nbc in the us. the show airs on channel 4 and is available on amazon prime in the uk. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from the west wing digital spy readers choose top tv show for reboot rob lowe says west wing cast are up for revival advertisement - continue reading below the west wing star confirms talks for revival aaron sorkin confirms west wing revival talks west wing reboot may happen, friends never coming back this is what a west wing revival would look like westworld s2 could introduce roman and medieval worlds west wing, the office us, er and 30 rock could return toby from west wing gets amazing fan-made movie trailer the west wing cast reunite to support hillary clinton the west wing this is us us tv tv 'west wing' finale airs in us grey's anatomy casts suits star in recurring role perry to guest star on 'west wing' 'playboy club' casts troy garity in recurring role the west wing cast reunite to support hillary clinton homeland's abu nazir will recur in mistresses season 4 us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising