u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition this new world we made so much progress on plastic bags. coronavirus could undo it all. the plastics industry is mounting a campaign to push single-use plastics as the safest option, despite the science being far from clear. by amy crawford people with disabilities were already overlooked. the coronavirus is making it worse. as the country scrambles to respond to the covid-19 epidemic, the disabled community is getting left out of the conversation. by brooke knisley this mayor is giving people $500 a month, no strings attached. here’s his advice for trump. as the coronavirus pandemic shatters the economy, stockton, california, mayor michael tubbs has two words for the president: "go big." by laura paddison we now know who society’s essential workers are. and they’re among the lowest paid. the coronavirus pandemic is putting grocery store and restaurant workers at risk, often with no health protections and just a handful of safety precautions in place. by kyla mandel trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad why we'll never treat the climate crisis with the same urgency as the coronavirus the delayed covid-19 response was met with swift condemnation. but outrage about the decades-long delay on climate change continues to be waved away as alarmism. by amy westervelt what the world's happiest country can teach us about surviving the coronavirus crisis in order to persevere through a pandemic, it's all about trust and supporting one another. by laura paddison newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. how to be a climate activist during a pandemic the fight against climate change isn't going away; it's going online. by sarah sax coronavirus crisis workers need child care help. these states are stepping up. “this is amazingly challenging,” one expert said. by kyla mandel should gasoline come with a climate change warning label? these cities think so. proponents hope the simple stickers will make consumers question their own use of fossil fuels. by jillian mock healthy eating is key to well being. so why is hospital food always so bad? from maine to california, hospitals are tackling a lingering contradiction: their food can be a hindrance to their patients' health. by molly mccluskey 6 experts on why we panic about the coronavirus but not about the climate crisis both are urgent global crises, both are taking lives ― but our reactions are very different. climate experts explain why. by laura paddison they're coming for your paper coffee cups we toss 260 billion paper cups in the trash every year. these coffee shops have a better solution. by willy blackmore california's housing crisis is so bad, people are turning to rent strikes and squatting “we’ve exhausted all our options.” unaffordable rents and dilapidated homes are pushing people to radical action. by liza ramrayka cruises come with human health risks. they can be just as harmful to the environment. these “floating cities” can have devastating consequences for life on land and sea. by amelia tait this 'miracle' plant is supposed to save the world instead, the new craze for the south african succulent spekboom shows our obsession with silver bullet solutions to the climate crisis. by olivia boyd there's an incredibly simple way to get people to care about the environment better access to nature, even just your local park, helps people and the planet. by cassidy randall is it really possible to go 'plastic free'? this town is showing the world how. a coastal town in england achieved "plastic free" accreditation in 2017, since then over 100 other communities have done the same. by anna turns online vs. in-store shopping: the eco-friendly choice isn't always obvious but one thing is clear. next-day delivery is the most carbon-intensive option. by kyla mandel how this frozen mountain vault could save us from a global food crisis the svalbard global seed vault is welcoming new seeds from around the world, including the cherokee nation. by laura paddison here’s what happens when public transit is free cities in the u.s. and around the world are making buses and trains free for residents, aiming to increase equality and tackle pollution. by amy crawford newsletter sign up subscribe to this new world the current capitalist system is broken. get updates on our progress toward building a fairer world. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost impact. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.