search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us boss explains huge baby jack twist in season 4 premiere "it's a gigantic storyline." by amy west 25/09/2019 maarten de boernbc universal this is us is a comedy-drama like no other, in that it likes to play with time – as well as its audience, too. and last night's season four premiere was no different. in the latest episode, fans were surprised to learn that they were actually watching several flash-forward scenes and the young blind man they'd been following in one particular storyline was actually the grown-up son of kate and toby damon. in his scenes, it becomes clear that jack – named after kate's father – is a musician, when he meets a waitress named lucy in a diner and the pair hit it off as they talk about the lives and careers. nbc related: this is us casts west wing star in recurring role for season 4 the show then whizzes through their relationship – as jack writes a song about their first meet and becomes a successful rockstar, and lucy opens her own restaurant. in the present day, kate (chrissy metz) and toby (chris sullivan) receive news that their baby – who was born prematurely – isn't responding to visual clues and that his eyesight is unlikely to return. the moment is poignantly cut with lucy and older jack (played by musical theatre actor blake stadnik) walking down a dark corridor, only for the latter to emerge on an arena stage in front of thousands as an announcer shouts, "ladies and gentleman, jack damon!" if you know us, you know to expect a surprise. #thisisus pic.twitter.com/6nwpoolnzj — this is us (@nbcthisisus) september 25, 2019 discussing the reveal – and what it means going forward – showrunner dan fogelman recently told entertainment weekly that "anything’s possible" when it comes to doing flash-forwards beyond jack's lifetime. but, "it’s not in the current plan right now," he did admit. "i’m afraid of flying cars [laughs] and a world without water, and what that all looks like. "we do have plans for the future and that which we call 'the deeper future' — because we call it the one where rebecca’s in bed 'the deep future' — but i think we would only be going past that linearly. meaning a continuation of where we’ve been with jack, but not even jumping further into the 2300s or anything like that." related story this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot for now, fogelman is focused on exploring how looking after a visually-impaired child will impact kate and toby's relationship. "it’s a gigantic story. we’ve worked with a bunch of different people who have been advising us and talked to a bunch of people and our actor [stadnik is legally blind] to try and get it right. "raising a child is a complicated process, and raising a blind child comes with extra challenges. obviously, having a newborn child — with or without sight — is a challenging time for young parents. for any parents. "you’re snipping at each other, you’re exhausted. [now] there’s added stuff. this was not expected. it’s a surprise and that’s a big part of their season this year." this is us season 4 will air on tuesday, september 24 on nbc in the us. the show airs on channel 4 and is available on amazon prime in the uk. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter account. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv chicago fire boss explains heartbreaking s8 twist arrow boss explains final season premiere twist this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot 100 boss explains s6 premiere's dramatic twist chicago pd boss explains that season 5 finale twist walking dead showrunner talks season 8 premiere twist us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising