engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget 3 related articles login this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more xiaomi's mi 10 lite offers 5g for €349 powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price more from engadget deals latest in gear ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 19m ago view the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1h ago view google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks 1h ago view this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more 2h ago view image credit: this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more audio deals are abundant, including samsung galaxy buds for $80. valentina palladino, @valentinalucia 2h ago comments share tweet share sponsored links devindra hardawar this week brought a great deal on our favorite pair of wireless headphones, plus a number of other good deals. those who need to shut out the world can grab sony's wh-1000xm3 wireless noise-cancelling headphones for $238, and those who need a new 2-in-1 can get a discount on microsoft's surface pro 7 -- type cover included. musicians can also still snag native instruments plug-ins for free. here are the best deals from the week that remain available today. sony wh-1000xm3 wireless headphones newegg still has sony's wh-1000xm3 wireless noise-cancelling headphones for only $238, which is $112 less than their usual price of $350. we gave these headphones a score of 94 and praised them for their excellent noise-cancellation capabilities and equally impressive audio quality. they have only a few downsides, one being finicky touch controls, but those can be easily overlooked when nearly everything else about these headphones is stellar. buy sony wh-1000xm3 on newegg - $238 surface pro 7 bundle you can still get a good discount on the surface pro 7 from microsoft. a model with a core i5 processor, 8gb of ram, and 128gb of storage bundled with a type cover is just $822. typically, microsoft sells these items separately, with the type cover alone going for $150 and the surface starting at $899. this updated 2-in-1 finally includes usb-c ports and the type cover remains one of the best keyboard covers you can get. the bundle was $800 earlier this week, but the current $822 sale price remains good deal. buy surface pro 7 bundle on microsoft - $822 google nest hub max home depot still has a sale that drops the price of the google nest hub max to $200. while the $180 sale price from earlier this week has expired, the current sale price is worth considering. the nest hub max is one of our favorite smart displays as it wears different hats depending on your needs. you can use it as a small tv to stream content like recipe videos, as a speaker to play music, as a camera for video calls and as your main at-home google assistant device. buy nest hub max on home depot - $200 native instruments plug-ins you can still snag native instrument's analog dreams software for free, which is a great deal considering it normally costs $50. this software synth can help you create your own versions of 80s pop hits at home. to use analog dreams, you'll first need native access and kontakt player -- both of which are part of the free komplete start bundle. after that, you'll be able to claim and download your free copy of analog dreams. buy analog dreams on native instruments - $0 new deal additions master & dynamic wfh sale master & dynamic extended its work-from-home sale, an event that cuts up to 50 percent off some of its popular headphones and speakers. the company is known for making high-quality, albeit expensive, audio devices, so now's a good time to snag an item on your wishlist while it's more affordable than usual. use the code wfh50 to save on select products -- the sale ends sunday, march 29. shop master & dynamic wfh sale tidal premium 4-month trial audio streaming company tidal has a sale going on that gives new tidal premium subscribers 4 months of service for $4. premium normally costs $10 per month, so this is a good deal if you wanted to check out tidal for the first time. just keep in mind that tidal premium includes high-quality audio streaming, but it does not include lossless audio streaming. that feature is reserved for tidal hifi subscribers, and that membership still costs $20 per month. buy tidal (4-month subscription) on tidal - $4 samsung galaxy buds b&h photo has samsung's galaxy buds for $80, which is $50 less than their normal price of $130. we've seen the galaxy buds go down to $100 before, but this $80 sale price makes them an even better buy. we gave them a score of 69 for their reliable battery life and strong connectivity, but we did have reservations about their touch controls and mic quality. nevertheless, these are solid earbuds that are a good alternative to the updated $150 galaxy buds+ if you have a tight budget. buy samsung galaxy buds on b&h photo - $80 in this article: commerce, engadgetdeals, gadgetry, gadgets, gear, google, masteranddynamic, microsoft, native instruments, nest hub max, samsung, sony, surfacepro, thebuyersguide, tidal all products recommended by engadget are selected by our editorial team, independent of our parent company. some of our stories include affiliate links. if you buy something through one of these links, we may earn an affiliate commission. comments share tweet share popular on engadget sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field view at&t and cricket offer customers a $15 plan for a limited time view the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists view powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price view from around the web about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr