search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us star milo ventimiglia teases jack's story is not over despite his death "even in death, there's a lot of life left in jack." by joe anderton 05/02/2018 nbc universal the latest episode of this is us finally revealed the heartbreaking way in which jack pearson died – we won't spoil it in this article, you can read all about the details here – but that doesn't mean that this is the end. speaking to entertainment weekly, star milo ventimiglia talked about how the show will go forward from here. "this is episode 14, so that's only the 32nd hour we've ever known this family," he told the publication. nbc universal related: this is us season 3: release date, cast, spoilers and everything you need to know "so now, if jack died in 1998, when the kids are 17, there's still a lot to know – different sides of him, what made him, what shaped him, what inspired his romance with his wife, what happened with he and his brother in war…. "that we've invested as much as we have as an audience in 32 hours is pretty remarkable. there's a lot of life left in him – even in death, there's a lot of life left in jack." nbc universal ahead of the super bowl, which aired just before the latest episode of this is us, ventimiglia appeared in a humorous little video about the coming together in these divided times, and also made sure to tell us that crock-pot is innocent. this is us airs on nbc in the us. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us star says jack's death is 'soul-crushing' this is us's mandy moore teases jack's fate milo ventimiglia: to bang or not to bang? this is us star shares his "biggest heartbreak" on show milo ventimiglia excited about 'rest' this is us star reacts to golden globes snub us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising