search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us star reacts to big kevin twist in season 4 finale "you're like, 'oh god, where do they go now?'" by dan seddon 25/03/2020 this is us season 4 spoilers follow for its finale. the final episode of this is us season 4 aired in the us yesterday (march 24) and with it came some huge revelations. one of which was the small matter of madison (played by caitlin thompson) expecting twins following her one-night stand with kevin (justin hartley). sitting down with entertainment weekly, hartley weighed in on the huge twist. ron batzdorffnbc universal related: this is us boss responds to mid-season finale's big rebecca reveal asked whether his character's 'all in' mentality with madison could be a red herring, the actor suggested: "it might be, and he could still get there. i mean, i love the idea that we write these stories where life doesn't always turn out the way that you planned it when you were 4. "things happen, every day, and it's like, 'well, i didn't see this happening.' and it's like, how do you adapt? how do you adjust? how do you live your life?" ron batzdorffnbc universal related: this is us star milo ventimiglia says he was told he's "too old" to play batman meanwhile, hartley also delved into how season five will unfold for kevin and madison, revealing: "we're going to find out more about the pregnancy and the twins and the mom and the morning sickness and the fiancée, and all that kind of stuff. "the finale leaves a lot of questions... where you're like, 'oh god, where do they go now?' just exploring more of the characters and getting more involved with the family and everyone's getting older now, so trying to figure all that out." bring on the fifth season... digital spy now has a newsletter – sign up to get it sent straight to your inbox. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy instagram and twitter accounts. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know once upon a time star is making her tv comeback this is us us tv tv power star reacts to shock twist in final season 'fringe' star reveals season finale twist handmaid's tale cast discuss season 3's big twist this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot power star reacts to shock twist in latest episode supernatural season 13 finale reveals huge twist us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising