search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. this is us may have hinted at a major death – and fans aren't happy "i. will. destroy. everything." by ian sandwell 15/03/2018 maarten de boernbc universal warning: contains spoilers for this is us season two's finale. this is us's season two finale might have been a happy ending, but it hinted at a major death that we could see in season three. as we watched the speeches at kate and toby's wedding, we were treated to some flash-forwards, and one in particular caught the attention as we saw an adult tess (iantha richardson) told by her father randall (sterling k brown): "it's time to go see her, tess." we assume that the "her" in question is tess's mother beth (susan kelechi watson), and after the super bowl episode flash-forwards left her out, people have interpreted this as hinting that beth will die in the show. and if that turns out to be the case, this is us fans will not be happy. me if #thisisus comes for beth. pic.twitter.com/cawkxc98re — amanda owens (@amandasowens1) march 14, 2018 if beth dies i will burn this place to the ground #thisisus pic.twitter.com/ukwfxmyyis — samantha parker karn (@samparkerparker) march 14, 2018 if something happened to beth or annie or deja???! i. will. destroy. everything. #thisisus — brittany michele (@uptownbrittany) march 14, 2018 i promise you if beth dies i will stop watching. #thisisus — mieke. (@miaaadanielle_) march 14, 2018 dear #thisisus writers, leave beth alone. take anybody but beth. sincerely, leave beth alone — khristi lauren adams (@khristilauren) march 14, 2018 y’all, if beth dies, i can’t. that better be season 23 or else i’m done 😭 #thisisus pic.twitter.com/kenv9pfode — courtney steele (@miss_steele12) march 14, 2018 following the finale airing in the us, executive producer elizabeth berger explained that season three will "definitely be revisiting" the time period shown in the flash-forward scenes. "i cannot even reveal if it was a fight they were speaking about. i don't want to say anything about it, because i think we're going to a really interesting and surprising place. anything is possible," she explained. ron batzdorff/nbc/nbcu photo bank via getty images this is us returns to nbc in the us later this year. channel 4 airs the show in the uk, but hasn't confirmed a season two premiere date yet. want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from this is us this is us star reacts to huge kevin twist how to watch this is us s3 free on amazon prime advertisement - continue reading below this is us boss reveals what's up next in season 4 this is us boss responds to big rebecca reveal this is us boss talks baby jack twist in season 4 this is us casts west wing star for s4 role this is us season 4 trailer teases new guest cast this is us star teases "disruptive" season 4 pilot emmy 2019 nominations revealed this is us season 4: everything you need to know this is us us tv tv this is us boss teases major format change for season 3 this is us cast share major season 2 'spoilers' this is us star confirms they will survive s3 this is us season 3: everything you need to know marvel's daredevil casts major character for season 3 arrow fans react to that major season 6 finale death us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising