services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing bluleadz inbound marketing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply close services what we do marketing sales service design how we do it content creation seo lead generation buyer personas email marketing video marketing web optimization inbound sales inbound service paid media work case studies portfolio reviews pricing resources what is hubspot? guides the inbound glossary blog about contact write for us apply inbound marketing, sales, and service resources this is a great place to get all the info you need using an inbound approach to grow your organization. view the inbound glossary resource topic inbound marketing inbound sales web design content marketing seo email marketing social media video hubspot bluleadz case study design template pack define the problem, solution, and results associated with your success story. boost awareness and build social proof by branding your pdfs with your company name and logo. present your big wins in a visually appealing document that you can use in your marketing and sales processes. download the template buyer persona templates add a photo, name, biography, and other demographics. list out pain points, challenges, goals, and common objections. hone in on your marketing message for each of your personas. download the template how to complete a brand audit yourself: a checklist look at your internal branding, including your brand's story and voice. assess your external branding elements, like your logo and website. improve your understanding of the customer experience and how your brand impacts it. download the checklist how to create brand consistency that drives growth, delights customers, & earns advocates learn the basics of branding and how it impacts your business outline how to develop your brand learn best practices to effectively perform a brand audit take home an interactive checklist to help you measure brand awareness and consistency download the ebook the net promoter score (nps) action plan better understand what nps means to you and your business. calculate your nps based off of the surveys you conduct. find the right type of nps survey that will help your business the most. take action on the customer feedback you gather from nps surveys. download the tipsheet essential guide to leadership skills (and how to improve on them daily) learn the top traits every leader should possess. understand how each trait plays a valuable role in helping you become the best leader you can be at any company. get actionable next steps toward developing these skills. download the tipsheet the checklist for building your website using a cms learn how to go from selecting your cms to launching your site how to find the right domain name registrar what web hosting types best fit your needs download the checklist how to choose a messaging app for marketing instant messaging apps are truly on the rise. it's been predicted that in 2019 more than 25% of the world population will be using them for communication. given its current trajection, it’s easy to see that these apps are here to stay. download the infographic how to pitch inbound marketing to your ceo / management team how to show inbound marketing value to your ceo & management team what inbound marketing has to offer your sales team how to approach different key players in your organization and what concerns they may have download the ebook how to build an internal inbound marketing team pinpoint which positions you need to have understand what each position brings to the table what qualities to look for when hiring for these roles download the ebook how to choose the right inbound agency how to pinpoint which direction your company needs to go questions to ask yourself when selecting an inbound agency best ways to get started with an agency download the ebook how to create an effective influencer marketing campaign understand the benefits of influencer marketing how to select the right influencers how to boost your brands awareness through influencer marketing download the ebook how to create an effective inbound marketing campaign how to identify your target market tips to create a compelling content offer how to set up workflows download the ebook 30 mobile marketing statistics you need to know here are 30 mobile marketing statistics that should make every business owner and marketing professional stand up and take notice! download the infographic smart goals template summarize your ultimate marketing goals determine your ultimate marketing needs set a deadline for meeting your goals download the template 30 great lead gen tips, tricks & ideas best lead generating examples from bluleadz awesome lading page tips how to create irresistible offers download the ebook the ultimate list of sales interview questions learn about the benefits of conducting each type of interview – phone, video, panel, and reference checks. refer to a list of the best questions to ask sales candidates and their professional references. adopt a simple 7 step sales hiring process to streamline finding and assessing new talent. download the tipsheet inbound sales playbook learn the inbound sales methodology gain insights on the four key phases of an inbound strategy: identify, connect, explore, and advise utilize our interactive worksheets to take your strategy from start to finish download the ebook 60 marketing & sales acronyms everyone needs to know here are 60 (30 marketing and 30 sales) of the most important marketing and sales acronyms to know and understand! download the infographic how to serve up better leads to your sales team how to serve up better qualified leads to your sales team download the infographic 101 reasons why you should embrace live chat live chat is a web service that enables businesses to communicate in real time with people visiting their website. this fast support is provided through the medium of instant messaging and creates a form of customer service, which can have a crucial contribution to the success of any online business. download the infographic 3 easy ways to align sales and marketing 3 ways to align your sales & maketing teams website audit worksheet add a grade for every aspect of your site, such as your blog content, security, and conversion paths. assign priority levels to each initiative so you can focus on the most important pieces first. include detailed notes on what to improve in each area. download the worksheet b2b web design checklist learn how your website can pass the blink test how to reinforce your site content what makes or breaks a homepage download the checklist content audit template organize your content assets by content type, page type, and campaign. attribute kpis to each asset and sort content based on your immediate goals. establish what actions you need to take on each piece of content. download the template blog idea generation toolkit get the best tools in the biz for all things idea generation. learn how to use each tool to create thousands of new ideas for your blog. easily access links so you can access each tool from one location. download the tipsheet ultimate content ideation workbook fast track your content brainstorming sessions gather the right information to help your writing process run smoother utilize our organized editorial calendar to keep track of your content development download the template the ultimate blogging checklist how to identify blog topics blog formatting best practice tips how to analyze your blog once it's published download the checklist an introduction to business blogging learn business blogging best practices how to choose topics to blog about how to optimize your blog posts download the ebook the content marketer's ultimate guide to search engine optimization learn why seo still matters for your business in today's day and age. understand the role seo plays when it comes to your content marketing efforts. learn the good (& the bad) seo tactics you should know. get the best free and paid tools to help you execute your strategy. download the ebook keyword research tipsheet key steps to identify the right keywords how to compile a comprehensive keyword list what to analyze to determine the right target keywords download the tipsheet how to rank higher in local search results how to optimize contact pages for seo ways to leverage social media & review aggregators best practices for creating location-specific content download the tipsheet 5 ways to improve your business's local seo improve your business's local seo get found online optimize your website for search engines how you should use social media to drive more traffic create a business blog to attract new website visitors download the ebook creating effective lead nurturing workflows: a five-step guide learn the basic components of a lead nurturing campaign. dive deep into the five key steps for creating a lead nurturing workflow. gain access to an interactive worksheet to help you get started on your first workflow. download the ebook overcoming the 5 biggest email marketing challenges email marketing solutions for every industry how to create compelling, concise email content how to increase email open rates download the ebook an introduction to email marketing how to solve email marketing challenges various marketing emails for your business how to measure your emails performance download the ebook 7 awesome hacks for creating an amazing email campaign hacks to create an amazing email campaign the marketer's guide to using instagram how to build your companies following learn how to identify the best hashtags use the stories feature to your companies advantage download the ebook linkedin 101 tip sheet learn the linkedin branding basics understand your paid media options on linkedin how to increase your brands visibility on linkedin download the tipsheet 25 eye opening youtube statistics over a billion users watch almost 5 billion videos every day on youtube. as a promotional tool, it's a must use channel if you produce any type of video, whether it's “explainer videos” for your products or a recruiting video for your business. download the infographic youtube style guide for business get more results from your company youtube channel how to fine tune your company youtube channel branding guidelines for your company channel download the ebook how to use social media to find new leads understand the fundamental social prospecting concepts easy to follow instructions to put fundementals into practice pro tips to help guide you towards success download the ebook social media paid advertising what does social media paid advertising look like which platfom to advertise on how you can create your first ad download the ebook 5 things you need to do for your business on linkedin immediately 5 tips for your business's linkedin 5 ways your business is using social media wrong 5 ways to improve your business's social media presence video planning template answer all the important questions of content planning, noting your buyer personas, intended platforms, and messaging. outline your pre-production ideas, including who's involved, the budget, and tools needed. organize the production process through a shot sheet and shooting schedule. streamline the editing process by highlighting the key elements to take note of when putting the final video together (e.g., sound and color quality) download the template 5 ways to use video in the marketing and sales funnel how to make intro videos for prospects step by step instructions for creating custom video gifs how to shoot and edit videos for marketing campaigns download the ebook the power of video in marketing automation how to generate powerful customer insights how to create compelling video campaigns ideas on how to integrate video in your marketing strategy download the ebook how to: create a video voicemail video tutorial: creating a video voicemail 7 video tips your business needs to know right now 7 video tips to start implementing how to: upload a wistia video to your website how to add a wistia video to your website 5 videos your boring business needs right now different videos you can make to showcase your business how to start getting leads on hubspot in 30 days start ramping up your lead generation efforts on hubspot learn how to make the most of your existing traffic sources tips to create clearly defined buyer personas download the ebook hubspot crm & salesforce: which is the best solution for your business? answers to the top crm questions benefits & drawbacks of both hubspot crm & salesforce crms that promote smarketing download the ebook how to: migrate a wordpress blog to hubspot video tutorial: how to migrate a wordpress blog to hubspot how to: sync social media accounts in hubspot video tutorial: how to sync up your social accounts in hubspot how to: create smart form fields in hubspot video tutorial: creating smart form fields in hubspot how to: create a 301 redirect in hubspot video tutorial: how to create a 301 redirect in hubspot how to: set a background image using a custom module in hubspot video tutorial: how to set a background image using a custom module in hubspot how to: use hubspot to see where your leads are coming from how to use hubspot to see where your leads are coming from how to: create a modal popup window in hubspot creating a modal popup window in hubspot how to: add a google custom search to your hubspot website video tutorial: how to add a google custom search to your hubspot site how to: place google analytics on a hubspot website video tutorial: how to place google analytics on a hubspot website the flywheel assessment our team of inbound experts will help you: identify core metrics for each flywheel stage explore alignment opportunities for your teams develop processes and stategies that maximize force to move customers through your flywheel download the training bluleadz inbound marketing consultants what our inbound marketing consultants do download the infographic how bluleadz becomes content experts in your industry how bluleadz handles the content creation process download the infographic bluleadz designers/developers what our designers/developers do download the infographic bluleadz video specialist what our video specialists do download the infographic bluleadz ppc specialist what our ppc specialists do download the infographic #askinbound: "where does sem fit in with inbound marketing?" how does sem fit in with inbound marketing #askinbound 09: "how do i unite marketing and sales?" how to get marketing & sales on the same page #askinbound 08: "does an inbound agency need to be in the same city as me?" does the location of an inbound marketing agency matter #askinbound 07: "which cms should i use?" which content management system should you use #askinbound 06: "why is my traffic down?" diagosing a decrease in website traffic #askinbound 05: "where do i start in inbound marketing?" a good place to start implementing inbound marketing #askinbound 04: "how do you set up your annual goals?" how to set up annual goals #askinbound 03: "what's the best seo advice you've ever heard?" seo tips that will improve your business #askinbound 02: "should you hire an inbound marketer or outsource it?" inbound marketing: in-house or outsourced #askinbound 01: "is inbound marketing right for every business?" what's a good fit for inbound marketing inbound marketing success story inbound marketing best principals an inside tutorial explaining the bz modular pricing page bz pricing page explainer download the ebook services marketing design sales pricing company about us customer testimonials careers contact resources blog resources the inbound glossary are you lost? (866) 995-8720 3030 n. rocky point dr. w. suite 600 tampa, florida 33607 facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube messenger © 2020 bluleadz, all rights reserved. privacy policy.