home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink latest articles prevnext three recipes for mums on the keto diet leyla preston tue 29th jan 2019 0shares share tweet pin we mums share one thing in common, and that’s the fact that we lead very busy lives juggling all kinds of responsibilities at once. what this means is that it can be hard to dedicate time and effort to your own tasks, goals, and needs. if you have decided to pursue a healthier lifestyle in 2019 and are giving the popular keto diet a try, you may be hitting the wall before you even get started. for many, the problem isn’t about sticking to the keto-friendly foods, rather, it’s about coming up with keto-friendly recipes and then finding the time to make them. the good news is that the internet is filled with helpful resources for those just starting out on the keto diet and who aren’t really sure about what foods to buy, or what recipes to use. for example, ketologic have this list of what to buy which is a good go-to resource if you’re just getting started. from this list of essentials, there are all kinds of recipes and snacks that you could come up with. if you’re still having a hard time coming up with some tasty, healthy, and keto-friendly recipes on the fly, here’s a few that you may want to try. table of contents chicken with herb butter ingredients: chicken directions sheet pan burgers topped with jalapeño and bacon ingredients: toppings: sauce: directions: minty green protein smoothie ingredients: instructions: simple, quick, and tasty free resource library! chicken with herb butter this chicken with herb butter recipe is filling, tasty and can be thrown together relatively quickly without using many ingredients. it can act as a perfect weekday dinner when you’re low on time, or as a nice warm lunch. ingredients: chicken 4 chicken breasts 1/6 oz. olive oil or butter salt and pepper for seasoning herb butter: 1 garlic clove 5 1/3 oz. room temperature butter 4 tbsp fresh parsley chopped 1/2 tsp garlic powder 1/2 tsp salt 1 tsp lemon juice greens 8 oz. leafy greens (your choice of type) directions make the herb butter first by combining the larger portion of butter, garlic, parsley, lemon juice, and salt. once mixed, set it aside. lightly season the chicken breasts with the salt and pepper and then pan fry them in the olive oil or butter. cook on medium heat until the chicken breasts are cooked all the way through. place the chicken breasts on a bed of the leafy greens, and top with the herb butter. sheet pan burgers topped with jalapeño and bacon for those who love a little spice and flavour in their meal, then these sheet pan burgers topped with jalapeño and bacon is an absolute must-try. it has all the flavour and personality of a true hamburger just without the buns. again, this can make for a fast weeknight meal and can satisfy the whole family. ingredients: burger patties 24 oz of ground beef 1 tsp salt 1/4 tsp ground black pepper 1/2 tsp garlic powder toppings: 6 slices of bacon cut in half 2 jalapeños that have been sliced and seeded 4 slices of onion 4 slices of pepper jack cheese sauce: 1/4 cup mayonnaise 1/2 tsp worcestershire sauce 1 tbsp sriracha hot sauce 1 tsp keto-friendly sweetener directions: start by preheating the oven to 425° f. while the oven is heating combine the ground beef, garlic powder, pepper, and salt and then form four equal patties out of the mixture. place the patties on a baking sheet. place the onion slices, bacon, and jalapeño slices on the baking sheet as well. cook everything for 18 minutes. while the burgers and toppings are cooking, you can mix the sauce in a small container, and then store in the fridge until it’s ready to be served. after 18 minutes remove the baking tray from the oven and place one slice of pepper jack cheese on each burger. return the baking sheet to the oven and broil on high for two minutes. remove from oven. place equal amounts of toppings and a generous amount of sauce on each burger. minty green protein smoothie one of the toughest keto meals of the day can often be breakfast. typically, you’re in a hurry to get the kids and yourself out the door, so there isn’t much time for meal preparation. this minty green protein smoothie is great for just such occasions, as it’s quick and easy to prepare, yet it provides you with a good amount of protein that will power you through your morning. ingredients: 1 cup fresh spinach 1/2 avocado 1 scoop whey protein powder 10-12 drops liquid stevia peppermint drops 1/2 cup unsweetened almond milk 1 cup ice 1/4 tsp peppermint extract instructions: place all ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. you may need to adjust the amount of stevia to suit your own tastes. simple, quick, and tasty when choosing the best keto-friendly recipes, it’s always a good idea to search for those which claim to be simple and quick, and most importantly – tasty. *collaborative feature post* free resource library! subscribe now and receive your exclusive password to access a whole library of extra content! checklists, printables, guides - it's all yours when you subscribe! success! now check your email to confirm your subscription and get your top secret password to access your free resource library! there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive the free email course. i want those emails! we won't send you spam. unsubscribe at any time. powered by convertkit leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:keto diet about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok