home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty christmas competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty christmas thrifty christmas: how to make brown parcel paper pop this is how i wrap my presents every year, for a number of reasons. brown parcel wrap looks so pretty. it’s also sturdy, neat – and very cheap. here is the quick & easy lowdown on how brown paper roll can make your christmas gifts look like they belong on pinterest. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 december 7, 2016 thrifty baby, thrifty christmas happy thrifty christmas 2013 merry christmas! here, it has been go go go all day. this year we are with my husband’s family – and thrifty kid’s two cousins, aged three and one, whom he adores. we got up very early (thanks, kids) and … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 december 25, 2013 thrifty christmas the ultimate list: last order dates for christmas delivery christmas day is looming – but don’t panic! here is the master list of all the major uk retailers, and the last dates to order and get goodies in time for christmas. and pretty much all these retailers have sales & offers on right now. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 december 18, 2013 thrifty christmas how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. whether you are planning on venturing inside, or shopping online, here are my tried and tested tips for saving money at currys & pc world every time. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty18 december 17, 2013 thrifty christmas how to: make salt-dough decorations for your christmas tree if you haven’t made salt dough christmas tree decorations before, start here. the recipe is easy. the decorations are pretty, will last year after year, and cost next to nothing. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 december 16, 2013 thrifty christmas don’t even think about paying full price for flowers this christmas if you are planning on sending out any christmas flowers this year, don’t pay full whack. if you want to say it with flowers, here are some of the many bargains, discounts and vouchers currently on offer. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 november 26, 2013 deals & bargains, thrifty christmas 3 ways to get cut-price christmas presents from the body shop now is a good time to stock up on body shop products, with various sales and offers running. the body shop is going all out to draw shoppers in! here are my 3 top ways to get up to 50% off your body shop bill. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 november 1, 2013 thrifty christmas how to avoid missing the last posting dates for christmas yes, i know it’s october. but the post office has come up with a really good idea for the last christmas posting dates that i want to share with you before i forget. in fact, i am just the forgetful … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 october 23, 2013 thrifty christmas a few handmade presents when i posted last week about how we managed to buy christmas presents for 16 people on a budget of £180, i promised to post a round-up of some of our handmade gifts, created by my husband in his workshop. … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty17 january 15, 2013 thrifty christmas knit your way to next christmas christmas may be over for another year, but if you are a christmas-a-holic and you knit, here’s a project to keep you going until december. these are the twelve days of christmas, in knitted form. aren’t they amazing? the owner is … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 january 12, 2013 thrifty christmas make your own christmas tree (throwback to 2013) taking down the tree and decorations always feels so sad, doesn’t it? this weekend i’ve packed ours away, but before i did so i took a few photos to share with you. in truth, i’d meant to … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 january 7, 2013 thrifty christmas how to save money when posting your christmas cards – part 2 following my tip for saving money on stamps this christmas, here’s my second way of saving money on your christmas postage. behold, this extremely useful calendar from castle cover. (if you are reading this post in an email, and you … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 december 13, 2012 thrifty christmas get crafty this christmas, and win tesco vouchers if you are planning to keep your christmas budget on the down low by making a lot of your decorations and other christmas bits and pieces yourselves, can i point you in the direction of this excellent series of how … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 december 12, 2012 thrifty christmas how to save money when posting your christmas cards – part 1 if you are planning to save money on your christmas cards this year, i’ll bet you are trimming your send list and perhaps making your christmas cards or upcycling them. but did you know that there is another way … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 december 5, 2012 thrifty christmas giveaway: fill your house from top to bottom with christmas decorations… see this? it’s a book published by usborne, called christmas decorations to cut, fold & stick. it’s absolutely brilliant – and if you’d like to win a copy, scroll to the bottom of this post. in the meantime, let me … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty49 december 4, 2012 thrifty christmas christmas countdown: ten top deals well, i’m about halfway through my christmas shopping now – and my thrifty plan to spend no more than £180 on gifts for 16 people is on track (punches air). unfortunately, because so many members of my family read this … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 november 22, 2012 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google