home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty fashion competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty fashion upcycle a frumpy frock into a 1940s tea dress remember these floaty cotton dresses? wouldn’t it be great if you could wave a magic wand and turn them into 1940s tea dresses? when you think about it, a needle is like a really small, shiny wand… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 august 7, 2014 thrifty fashion some cleaning fixes for patent leather shoes & bags how do you clean patent leather shoes and handbags? my advice: if you have a well-stocked kitchen cupboard, you don’t need to bother with commercial cleaners. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty18 april 27, 2014 thrifty fashion how to: clean leather gloves i turned to my pocket bible, make do and mend, to find out how to clean my leather gloves. the step-by-step instructions got those gloves looking like new again. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 january 27, 2014 thrifty fashion shopping for a christmas party dress? here are my 5 top deals. here is my round-up of five of the top fashion discount deals currently available online & in-store. it’s a good time to shop bargains at jaeger, la redoute, asos & others. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 december 4, 2013 thrifty fashion how to get money off at debenhams every time. it’s a good time of year to share this nifty money-saving trick. if you know people who like to shop at debenhams, please share this post with them. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 november 7, 2013 thrifty fashion discount alert: 25% off sainsbury’s tu clothing psst! just a quick post to let you know that sainsbos is currently discounting everything in its clothing department by 25%. these 25% off deals do pop up at sainsbury’s every now and then. there must be some rhyme and … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 october 31, 2013 thrifty fashion need new spectacles? reglaze an old pair! next time your eyesight changes and your optician coaxes you towards the racks of shiny new frames with the eyewatering price tags, know that a cheaper option is available. for just £19, reglazemyglasses will give an old pair of your frames an mot, fit new lenses and return the newly-refurbished glasses to you. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 february 6, 2013 deals & bargains, thrifty fashion bargains in the atterley road sale guess where i spent my christmas money? yep: the atterley road sale, which is now under way. it is a good place to go bargain-hunting if you need to look smart but stylish for work, or if you are a fan … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 january 22, 2013 thrifty fashion sew & save: a bed-time routine for clothes i have posted before now about how much i love make do and mend: the book for housewives published by the ministry of information in 1943, when clothing was rationed. but here’s an even earlier book, which is less well-known, but … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 september 17, 2012 thrifty fashion cath kidston bags – the thrifty version! i love cath kidston bags – or at least, i love the 1950s prints – but i am not so keen on the prices. then i discovered that the lee cooper jeans brand has produced a range of kidston-esque bags … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 july 17, 2012 thrifty fashion make do and mend: three ideas for upcycling (video) 1. turn a shirt into a dress, skirt or top. you need to be a skinny minnie for this. you also need a man’s shirt in xl or above. but if you meet these criteria, there are so many possibilities… … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 june 20, 2012 thrifty fashion my charity shop haul moneysupermarket.com recently sent some bloggers, including me, a pre-paid credit card with £100 on it. nice, huh? the brief was to see what bargains we could find. by rights i should have taken to this challenge like a duck to … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 june 17, 2012 thrifty fashion make do and mend: tips on taking care of clothes make do and mend was published by the uk ministry of information in 1943 at a time when clothing was rationed. it aimed to help housewives spruce up their wartime wardrobes and reuse every last scrap of material they had. … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 april 29, 2012 thrifty fashion 20% off phase eight dresses this week come wedding season, lots of people flock to phase eight for smart dresses, and the store has some very loyal customers. it’s a wee bit expensive though, and i suspect that this discount is going to go down welll in … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 april 24, 2012 thrifty fashion europe’s largest vintage kilo sale comes to london if you are a fan of vintage clothing and you are based in london, here’s a heads up: europe’s largest vintage kilo fair is taking place in bethnal green today and tomorrow. if you are unfamililar with kilo sales, they … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 march 2, 2012 thrifty fashion use up scraps of wool – knit your own cowl! this is a special post from katie of je suis une monstre. do you know it? it’s a rather fine blog about arts, crafts, diy and handmade goodies. katie, who lives up a mountain in the french alps, makes lots … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 march 1, 2012 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google