home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty food competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty food how to make a reverse advent calendar answers to all your questions about reverse advent calendars: what are they and how much should you spend? here is my reverse advent calendar for this year, with a show-and-tell of everything i have packed. i spent £17 – but did you know you can make a reverse advent calendar for as little as £5? in terms of the difference it will make, that’s an amazing roi. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 november 3, 2017 thrifty food is the lidl hot air fryer worth £59.99? there are 8 things to like about lidl’s cut-price hot air fryer, and i list them all here. you can cook meat from frozen, in minutes. it is pretty hard to burn anything. and the price point (swoon)! this model was sent to me for review, and i have been putting it through its paces. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 december 18, 2016 thrifty food thrifty recipe of the week: £1.44 chocolate orange cake yes, you read that right: this delicious chocolate orange cake costs just £1.44 to make. it is one of my thrifty adaptations of a nigella recipe. the secret? a 27p jar of value marmalade. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty16 july 1, 2016 thrifty food thrifty recipe of the week: broad bean pesto a jar of broad bean pesto costs less than £1 to make and there are so many things you can do with it in all its garlicky, lemony loveliness: stir into pasta as a sauce, or spread it on toast. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 june 5, 2016 thrifty food ice cube trays: how do you use yours? ice cube trays: who knew they were useful for so much more than ice cubes? here in the thrifty house, they help to reduce food waste – thus saving money on our monthly grocery bill. here is what i am freezing – and why. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 may 22, 2016 thrifty food tired pineapple? turn it into pineapple chutney! i liberated a pineapple from the supermarket discount aisle. the leaves on the top began to turn brown. food waste? i think not. pineapple action stations. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 september 30, 2014 thrifty food peach iced tea in five minutes this quick and easy peach iced tea recipe comes in at less than £1 a pitcher: what’s not to like? i adore it: chilled until it is super-cold, this recipe is as thirst-quenching as it is delicious. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 september 2, 2014 thrifty food slow cooker on holiday: four camping recipes on our recent glamping holiday, my slow cooker came with us. it sounds weird; it turned out to be a great idea. here are the cheap, simple & filling dishes i cooked (plus a boozy recipe). get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 july 18, 2014 thrifty food the best tomato soup you’ll ever make this homemade tomato soup is something else. it is fresh and full of flavour. this is a frugal grandma recipe, so it is as inexpensive and simple as it is delicious. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 may 23, 2014 thrifty food emma’s top 5 tesco everyday value products what are the best tesco everyday value products? emma from the aldi to harrods blog is a time-served tesco shopping demon, who has kindly agreed to share her (ahem) value-able secrets… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 april 17, 2014 thrifty food naomi’s top 5 sainsbury’s basics products naomi is a miss thrifty reader who blogs at slender means. she is also a sainsbury’s basics superfan, who scouts out the top buys. here are her 5 top basics products. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty23 march 24, 2014 thrifty food how to: upcycle old salad you know how old, limp salad has a habit of ending up in the composter? it doesn’t have to be that way. when salad has reached its use-by date, here is what you can do. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 march 5, 2014 thrifty food money-saving tip for the week? if you like fish, try dab. dab is like sole and plaice: a flat fish. it tastes like them too with soft, sweet, milky flesh. the difference? the price! i picked up a whole fish for 72p. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 february 6, 2014 thrifty food eight simple ways to reduce food waste the average uk family throws away almost an entire meal daily, wasting nearly £60 a month. i hate food waste, and wrote up my favourite tips and ideas for tesco living. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty24 january 10, 2014 thrifty food eye on a slow cooker? this post is for you. if you are planning to invest in a slow cooker, for yourself or for a christmas present, buy now. click through for my top picks and recommended price guide. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 november 17, 2013 thrifty food thrifty recipe: grandma’s wonderful spice cake i love cakes, but i don’t bake as often as i’d like to. this is partly because, to my annoyance, the cakes i bake magically disappear out of their tins as soon as my back is turned. (the conjurer is … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 may 20, 2013 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google