home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty planet competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty planet “the green thing” and the older generation one of the consequences of having a octogenarian grandmother who is all fancypants and computer-literate, is that you end up getting a lot of email forwards. yes, frugal grandma: i’m looking at you! the jokes, the funny pictures, the powerpoint … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 october 25, 2011 thrifty planet halloween house i know we don’t go all out for halloween on this side of the pond, but in america the decorations have already gone up – and i can’t resist sharing the picture of this fully decked out halloween house. these … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 october 3, 2011 thrifty planet how to turn a water bottle into a light bulb… take a bottle of water, some bleach and make a hole in the roof… i’m not sure how much use this one is in the western world, but isn’t it the best kind of thrifty idea? i love it. [full … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 september 13, 2011 thrifty planet make your own multi-surface cleaner this homemade cleaner works for both kitchen and bathroom, disinfects, works out a lot cheaper than store-bought cleaner, is gentle on the environment and doesn’t pong of chemicals. it takes a few seconds to make, if you have the ingredients … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 july 24, 2011 thrifty planet question: what’s in the box? answer: my latest delivery from summer naturals! it seems to follow on neatly from this week’s cleaning theme… i’ve been a summer naturals customer for more than three years now. the company sells bulk quantities of natural (and frugal) cleaning … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 june 21, 2011 thrifty planet shiply: a cheap and green way to move furniture shiply describes itself as “an online marketplace for transporting goods”. users list the items they need to move, plus the final destinations, receive “bids” from various transport companies and take their pick. it’s rather like ebay for couriers and delivery … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 may 19, 2011 thrifty planet scrapping a car? get it collected and raise money for charity giveacar is a social enterprise that organises the free collection and recycling of any car or vehicle, anywhere in the uk. cars are either disposed of, and the value of the scrap metal donated, or placed into an auction, and … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 february 22, 2011 thrifty planet wire hangers? time to untangle them! like lots of people, i keep my clothes away from flimsy wire hangers, which do nothing to help preserve a garment’s shape. i read somewhere that 75 per cent of wire hangers are thrown away, but doesn’t that seem like … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 july 13, 2010 thrifty planet chipped cup or mug? don’t throw it away! i used to get really annoyed when i chipped a cup or mug, especially if it was one of my favourite cath kidston ones. this past few months it has been even more annoying, because of my new year’s resolution … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 july 3, 2010 thrifty planet guerilla gardening: seedbombs in london “what is guerrilla gardening? “guerrilla gardening is the art of using a piece of land which you do not own to grow something. one step removed from actual guerrilla warfare, guerrilla gardening takes land not for the people, but for … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 may 10, 2010 thrifty planet attention, non-shoppers: do you lead the ultimate thrifty lifestyle? a nice television lady called katy asked if i knew anyone who fitted the bill for her production company’s new programme idea. she is looking for people who spend just £1 or £2 a day. i said i’d put the … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 november 16, 2009 thrifty home, thrifty planet make your own floor cleaner – i do! we ran out of floor cleaner so i’ve started making my own. it costs pennies and works just as well as the relatively expensive, chemical equivalent. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 may 21, 2009 thrifty home, thrifty planet bin your fabric softener! white vinegar comes in handy: it’s an ingredient in my thrifty leather food, and i also use it when i’m mixing up my own kitchen and bathroom cleaner. i buy the stuff in bulk: this five-litre vat (left) from summer … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 april 7, 2009 thrifty home, thrifty planet nuts about soap nuts i bought a packet of soap nuts from the summer naturals site, and i’m loving them. soap nuts grow on sapindus trees in china and india; they are sticky and gooey with a surfactant called saponin. forget laundry detergent; put … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty13 march 25, 2009 thrifty planet secret freegan’s christmas shopping hey, do you remember the other day, when i listed secret freegan (@freegan ) as one of my favourite frugal twitterers? well, it turns out that secret freegan also has a secret freegan blog, which makes for eyeopening reading. just look … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 december 5, 2008 thrifty planet freecycle is amazing yes, i know i’m really late to the party. i’d read all about freecycle, which reduces waste by encouraging people to post their unwanted items online, and pass them on. but i hadn’t really paid much attention, because (a) … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 october 21, 2008 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google