home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty homebody competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty homebody rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it. last month, j. money announced the site was looking for 20 bloggers to take $100 each and turn it into some some joy and happiness. so i emailed to ask if the rockstar finance community fund could cross the pond. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 december 30, 2017 thrifty homebody emerges, blinking, into the sunlight… i’m back. it feels like waking up, and i am so happy to be here. a lot has changed. for example, i no longer spend £600 a month on a six-hour round trip to work (ugh). i have moved to a different part of the country, to a town south of manchester. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 march 21, 2016 thrifty homebody last-minute valentine’s ideas? take a peek at pinterest. valentine’s day is tomorrow. what’s your plan, eh? if you are single and have no plans at all, there are those who would envy you. as each year goes back i get the feeling that valentine’s day is becoming a … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 february 13, 2014 thrifty homebody one simple trick to avoid getting stiffed on cheap home broadband i suppose you think i’m about to recommend some cheap-as-chips home broadband deals? nope! instead, i have a free tool to share with you. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 november 21, 2013 thrifty homebody how to reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes i’m just going to come out and say it: diabetes is a horrible, horrible disease. it amazes me that even now, in 2013, when an estimated 10 in every 100 britons aged 60+ have type 2 diabetes, there remains a … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 august 29, 2013 thrifty homebody pin it forward uk pinterest recently got in touch with me to ask if i would take part in the pin it forward uk, campaign, which marks the launch of pinterest in the uk. i was flattered but confused, because we have already had pinterest here for a while now! so a nice lady from pinterest explained what the uk launch is all about. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 june 5, 2013 thrifty homebody five last-minute diy gift ideas for mother’s day so, if you’re short of readies this month (or just frugally-minded!) here are some last-minute ideas for homemade mother’s day gifts. they are all quick, simple and inexpensive – so what are you waiting for? whip out the pinking shears! … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 march 9, 2013 thrifty homebody sainsburys dvds for £5 just a quick heads up for film buffs: the online arm of sainsburys has added loads of much-loved films to its bargain bucket of dvds. the true grit/no country for old men double bill was the one that caught my … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 april 8, 2012 thrifty homebody the hunger games trilogy for a bargain £4.99 everybody is going gaga for the hunger games at the moment: both the movie, and the book on which it is based. if you would like to read the books but haven’t yet, check this out: the book people are … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 april 4, 2012 thrifty homebody how to have a thrifty valentine’s day thanks so much for all your lovely comments and messages about thrifty baby. he’s been poorly with reflux the past couple of weeks and we ended up on the children’s ward at the local hospital at one point, but i’m … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 february 14, 2012 thrifty homebody cheer up a bored cat battersea dogs and cats home cares for 200 cats over the summer period. apparently it’s a rubbish time of year to be a cat in the market for rehoming, as people don’t want to get new pets when their holidays … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 july 5, 2011 thrifty homebody extreme couponing: my new favourite tv programme extreme couponing is an american show, which follows a selection of coupon queens as they go about their supermarket shopping. i suspect that at this point, if you are a uk reader you are scratching your head and wondering how … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty15 may 8, 2011 thrifty homebody miss thrifty manifesto, revised: new year, new me? don’t worry: this isn’t some new year’s resolution-themed baloney about losing weight and finding new hobbies. but with the calendar year flipping and miss thrifty having a drastic design makeover at around about the same time, this seems like the … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 january 5, 2011 thrifty homebody for bbc radio 5 live listeners if you have come here after listening to the weekend breakfast show on bbc radio 5 live, welcome to miss thrifty! my passion for fashion knows no bounds, but neither does my craving for saving… here are some posts that … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 august 21, 2010 thrifty homebody thrifty birthday presents for your boyfriend – for less than £40 looking for a top (but thrifty) present for a boyfriend or husband? i’ve been looking too, after receiving this plea for help from miss thrifty reader anna: hi miss thrifty i wanted to make a nice present for my boyfriend’s … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 august 11, 2010 thrifty homebody free: new twilight novella from stephenie meyer! the new twilight novella from stephenie meyer, the short second life of bree tanner, is now live at www.breetanner.com. you can read it there for free until 5 am on 6 july 2010. as miss thrifty has lots of female … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 june 11, 2010 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google