home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty holidays competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty holidays four tips for glamping on a budget i am not overly keen on the term ‘glamping’, but i love glamping on a budget. it can be done! here are my four top tips, from group travel to taking a certain kitchen item with you. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 june 26, 2014 thrifty holidays caught in time: a mini-break by the sea out in the countryside, where the fields are stubbled and the sea can be glimpsed twinkling in the distance, there is a windmill. we went to stay there. so jonathan creek, darling. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 september 26, 2013 thrifty holidays how to find the best cruise deals. you can find cruises for less than £75 a day if you hunt around. but it’s a complex industry so you do need to do your homework. here are a few top tips, from travel journalist jeremy head. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 february 13, 2013 thrifty holidays a thrifty holiday in brittany where have i been? on holiday – and on an enforced holiday from this blog. the gite website promised wi-fi and i lugged my laptop bag all the way to france, only to find that the promise was a rash … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 september 4, 2012 thrifty holidays late lettings: a website for discounted holiday cottages we all know that if you are planning to holiday abroad, a last minute deal can save oodles of cash. but what about if you are planning to holiday in the uk? a website called late lettings is worth checking … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 august 3, 2012 thrifty holidays well, hello again remember a few months ago, when i asked your advice about going out to india for a favourite friend’s wedding in 2011? some good points were made and i decided to go for it – even though i don’t like … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 march 8, 2011 thrifty baby, thrifty holidays …and i’m back! as previously threatened, i went and took that thrifty roadtrip. yep: the first holiday in two years, all bought and paid for back at the beginning of 2010. we landed in colorado and hired a car. then we drove up … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 november 3, 2010 thrifty holidays a thrifty quandary: what would you do? i flash the cash rather than flex the plastic, but (gasp!) am i about to break my own frugal rules? truth is, i’m having a dilemma here – dilemma being a money monster sitting on my shoulder, whispering sweet ious … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty20 august 18, 2010 thrifty holidays planning to leave the house at any point? this post is for you. south of the watford gap? if you are in or around london at 6:30 pm on thursday 24 february, stylist hannah j is running a make do and mend workshop on brick lane. the tickets are £25 each, which i … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 february 19, 2010 thrifty holidays grab a cheap hotel room in leeds here is one for locals and yorkshire lovers: 1,000 leeds hotel rooms are going for £10 apiece. it’s a wheeze organised by visit leeds, the city’s tourist body. some of the rooms are going for £10 for one night; others … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 july 22, 2009 thrifty holidays low cost summer activities can be yours! follow these tips for reducing summer activity costs: make a summer activity budget. knowing how much money you can afford to spend to get the summer off get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 may 28, 2009 thrifty holidays oh la la! win a paris holiday ah paris, paris, how je t’adore! even though i speak french like del boy. this competition has been organised by paris ile-de-france tours, and you can enter by visiting the competition page and filling out your details. you also have … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 december 19, 2008 thrifty holidays competition: win a holiday in alberta, canada sky travel is running a competition to win a week’s holiday in “one of the best ski and snowboard destinations in the world”. the winner and his/her guest gets to stay in the banff caribou lodge and spa in the … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 december 3, 2008 thrifty holidays friday bargains: debenhams luggage like m&s, debenhams is going big on sales and heavy discounts in the run-up to christmas. check out the debenhams website for the full range of offers. i’m looking for new luggage at present: it’s horribly expensive and up until … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 november 21, 2008 thrifty holidays back to the uk with a bump well, i’m still suffering horribly with jetlag but at least i’m unpacked now. i hope to post more about our thrifty roadtrip over the coming days; right now i’m still trawling through my crammed rss reader, and wondering how i’m ever … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 november 21, 2008 thrifty holidays thrifty roadtrip! view larger map we’re in the middle of planning our week-long roadtrip (above). we’re getting there, but it’s a squeeze. so many miles, so little time. i’m excited though; i love driving along a long straight road in the middle of … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty22 october 14, 2008 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google