home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty home competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty home the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy bills once you get past the beginner-level energy-saving stuff, a whole new world of thrifty nerdery opens up. here are some secrets to copping a load of money off your utilities bills. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 september 5, 2018 thrifty home decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budget this guest bedroom was so unwelcoming. take a look at my mid-century makeover: from bargain g-plan right down to the wallpaper and bedspread. all on a budget! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 october 21, 2017 thrifty home make a gift bag from an old t-shirt even if you are a reluctant seamster or seamstress, you can turn a t-shirt sleeve into a small gift bag in less than 10 minutes. if you are wrapping homemade gifts such as jams, preserves or other sweet treats in jars, a sleeve-sized gift bag is a perfect fit. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 december 22, 2015 thrifty home water, water-saving freebies everywhere it is a simple fact: when you save water, you save money. so take advantage of the water-saving freebies currently being offered by utilities companies. everyone’s a winner! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 june 11, 2014 thrifty home how to: make your candles last longer i promised some tips for making your candles last longer, and here they are. you will need: nail clippers, a ruler, a stick of dry spaghetti and an eye on the clock. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 april 13, 2014 thrifty home love diptyque candles? try the thrifty version…. a decade after diptyque came into vogue, i am still agog that people will pay £40 for a chuffing candle. here is my thrifty alternative: just £6 a pop. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 april 1, 2014 thrifty home five thrifty uses for a potato here are five money-saving uses for a potato. these are tips i have tried and tested. they don’t include making vodka. i wouldn’t want to blind you. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 january 8, 2014 thrifty home five more ways to save money on energy bills. i popped up on itv tonight, sharing ideas for saving money on energy bills. every year, i read the same tips. so if you have been there & done that, here are some fresh ideas. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 november 13, 2013 thrifty home tuesday teaser: is your life lean-processed? lean processing is a manufacturing practice, which aims to improve efficiency and profitability through the elimination of waste. wasted movement, wasted effort, wasted output, wasted time and so on. i use it to keep my house clean – with minimal time & effort. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 september 17, 2013 thrifty home how to make a fruit fly trap if you have an empty jar or bottle to hand, you can make a fruit fly trap in less than two minutes. i made two fruit fly traps today, after noticing a few of the little oiks bobbing around the … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty6 september 8, 2013 thrifty home recycled paint: looks great & it’s cheaper than dulux! cut-price deals on paint can be hard to find. the diy stores do occasional offers, but they are rarely anything to write home about. the economy-brand paints are so thin and watery, you need to pile on the coats – which rather ruins the point, doesn’t it? it also annoys me that paint is so hard to recycle. help is at hand in the shape of newlife paints, a company founded by a master chemist in sussex. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 july 25, 2013 thrifty home extra cash: turn your loft space into side income do you have some spare space in your home? a boxroom? an empty corner of the attic, perhaps? or is there empty space in the basement, or a nook in the garage? here’s a great way to turn it into … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 april 3, 2013 thrifty home make your own leather food homemade leather food was one of the first posts i ever published on miss thrifty, nearly five years ago (yikes) when readers were still in single digits. homemade leather food takes seconds to make, saves lots of pounds and i … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty10 january 31, 2013 thrifty home how to keep your rugs looking swell i recently threw out one of our living room rugs. i’d taken to sponge-cleaning it weekly, by hand, and it still looked horrible. the baby sick, the pureed food hurled from the high chair with reckless abandon, the general wear … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 january 8, 2013 thrifty home free loft insulation and free cavity wall insulation – all the suppliers listed here earlier this year i wrote about how edf came and insulated our loft for free, saving us up to £175 a year on our energy bills, after i filled out a form on the energy company’s website: “ever the cynic, … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 october 28, 2012 thrifty home cath kidston wallpaper – the thrifty version three years ago, i posted about the thrifty versions of popular cath kidston wallpaper designs, available from focus diy and wallpaper direct. since then, the world has moved on. focus diy doesn’t even exist anymore. however that original post still gets … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 september 25, 2012 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google