home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty beauty competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty beauty lacura makeup: grab it while it’s on special lacura makeup is currently an aldi specialbuy. i came away with a decent haul when i visited my local store at the weekend, so here are my reviews & recommendations. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 april 20, 2016 thrifty beauty how to get cheap contact lenses i’ve been playing around with vision compare, a free comparison tool for contact lens wearers. it’s simple to use: type in your contact lens make and model. up pops a list of all the online retailers selling boxes of the lenses, with the prices. as ever, substantial savings can be made on high street optician prices. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 april 10, 2016 thrifty beauty shampoo sos: help me, thrifties, you’re my only hope! it was a dark day when i set foot in morrisons and found that my shampoo of choice had been discontinued. ahem? where were my trusty bottles of value-brand baby shampoo? fluffy pink sheep on the front of the bottle … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty19 march 10, 2014 thrifty beauty how to: mend your broken make-up once you know how, it’s easy to mend broken make-up. this mess-free method saves plenty of money and takes just a couple of minutes. here’s how you do it. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty9 february 10, 2014 thrifty beauty argan oil: the thrifty version! i left boots with the impression that you can add a bit of argan oil, slap a couple of quid on the price and make a killing… and i went home to my own, thrifty version of an argan oil hair product. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty16 september 11, 2013 deals & bargains, thrifty beauty 15% off your benefit cosmetics order if you are a fan of benefit cosmetics, here’s a discount deal for you: 15 per cent off all benefit products when you order from benefit’s online store. the discount code is 15treat1. enter at checkout. orders over £40 also … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 october 28, 2011 thrifty beauty with tinted vaseline, who needs to splash out on lip gloss? what can i tell you about tinted vaseline, aka vaseline rosy lips? just like regular vaseline, it makes a bargain lip balm. in the tin, the vaseline is a rather alarming shade of hot pink (it’s pretty toned down in … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 july 6, 2010 thrifty beauty pixi satin rose oil: divine fragrance, divine price. pixi’s rose satin oil is one of my favourite fragrances. i got a rollerball bottle of the stuff about four years ago, from a beauty journalist. i kept that little bottle in my bag and mourned its loss when it … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 may 31, 2010 thrifty beauty get rid of mouth ulcers the thrifty way yes, i know that bonjela tastes nice, but here’s a cheaper idea from frugal grandma. speaking from personal experience, it works very well. i must warn you though: this is a very british cure that isn’t for the faint-hearted. it … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty20 july 6, 2009 thrifty beauty how to: get a discount on your favourite perfume i love marc jacobs “daisy” fragrance and usually have a good old spritz if i happen upon a stray tester bottle. for money off, buy your perfume unpackaged! get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 may 7, 2009 thrifty beauty friday bargains: nicky clarke hair styling set argos is doing a good deal on this nicky clarke dryer & straightener gift box: £24.99, reduced from £69.99. the straighteners are ceramic-coated and heat to 200 degrees in 30 seconds; the products come in a matching leather-look box. the … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 march 6, 2009 thrifty beauty frugal’s gym tips i’ve never been a gym person myself. i have tried, in the past, but i can’t get into it. it’s a lot of hard work for a lot of money, to stare at a blank wall (or worse, a flatscreen … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 january 13, 2009 thrifty beauty friday bargains: tesco hair clippers this hair clipper set from tesco is only £6.99. it comes with the different sized combs, so that you can select how short you want the hair to be, plus other accoutrements such as scissors and a comb. not only … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 october 17, 2008 thrifty beauty ghd hair straighteners: i’ve got a better idea! you know how, if you take one simple financial decision out of the ordinary, it can snowball really easily? well, a few weeks ago i went and had a haircut. this didn’t turn out quite as i had hoped. i told … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty14 september 3, 2008 thrifty beauty aldi’s touche eclat – just £3.49 ysl’s touche eclat is still the best under-eye concealer on the market – but if you’re put off by the £18 price tag, the lacura range of cosmetics is well worth a look. the products are available from aldi stores. … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 august 5, 2008 thrifty beauty perfume bottles and thrifty bath oil fill an empty perfume bottle halfway with olive oil and shake it. voila: delicious-smelling bath oil is yours. i think i read this in reader’s digest half a lifetime ago. i was wary until i learned (probably from just seventeen or … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 july 22, 2008 get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google