home about archives contact me facebook twitter youtube pinterest instagram miss thrifty category archives: thrifty outings competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding thrifty outings have you seen this new way to save money on train tickets? fed up with expensive train travel? ‘split-ticketing’ is when you purchase multiple tickets, to save cash. a new website makes split-ticketing easier than ever. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty11 june 16, 2014 thrifty outings lego, guitar lessons & tractor rides: 3 freebies for kids come rain or shine, there are plenty of free ways to keep the kids entertained right now. here are some of my favourites, starting with free build sessions at lego stores. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 june 4, 2014 thrifty outings in-car dvd players: a thrifty workaround i used to wonder at the popularity of portable dvd players, for use in cars. when a nightmare motorway journey led to an epiphany, this thrifty workaround did the job. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty4 may 21, 2014 thrifty outings recommended: a free day out at the national railway museum we went to the national railway museum: a free day out in york, which is heaven for kids & big kids alike. plus bonus tips to save money on parking & food. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 february 24, 2014 thrifty outings wishing you a happy & thrifty new year 2014 it’s january 3rd and i don’t know about you, but i’m spent out – in all senses of the word. in the town centre where i work, the streets and shops are so crowded with grim-faced sale shoppers that it … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 january 3, 2014 thrifty outings freebie: wifi courtesy of bt wireless hotspots if you look for a cafe with wifi when you are out and about, this freebie may interest you. until 15 december 2013, you can claim an hour’s free wifi. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 december 5, 2013 thrifty outings a thrifty outing: heritage open days now that the wet and windy weather is closing in, are you wondering what to do this weekend? if you are, then look no further: heritage open days are happening now and they are right on your doorstep. take a … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 september 13, 2013 thrifty outings car boot sales: three home truths uh-oh, mum’s been car booting again! i set out with my trusty trestle table, found bargains aplenty – and learned three truths too (one of them the hard way). not a bad way to spend a sunday afternoon… get the lowdown >> miss thrifty14 august 23, 2013 thrifty outings yorkshire weekends: flowers, tractors and victory rolls when the weather warms up, yorkshire comes into its own and i wouldn’t want to be anywhere else. it’s so pretty here, and there is so much to do for free or at low cost. this is what i have been getting up to on my thrifty weekends. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty2 june 20, 2013 thrifty outings free positive thoughts: take one! if you enjoy making other people smile as much as you enjoy free stuff, i have the perfect freebie for you. i was walking to work in harrogate, when i came across this poster taped to a lamp-post: free positive … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty12 june 6, 2013 thrifty outings holed up at frugal grandma’s with the may bank holiday looming, i’ve taken some time to recharge batteries this week. thrifty baby and i went to see frugal grandma and frugal grandad. we were completely spoilt, of course. get the lowdown >> miss thrifty8 may 3, 2013 thrifty outings a thrifty february sunday cheer up! i know it’s damp and cold and windy, but the first snowdrops are here. at fountains abbey, the woods are carpeted with snowdrops. they always make me happy: among all the drabness, a sign that spring is finally … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty5 february 19, 2013 thrifty outings get free tickets to spamalot tickets to west end musicals don’t come cheap – unless you want to be sat at the back behind a pillar, that is. so i thought that the more adventurous among you would be interested to know that you can … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty1 february 1, 2013 thrifty outings winter driving: get your car ready in seven steps when i lived in london and then arizona, it never occurred to me that i should prepare my car for winter. then i moved to north yorkshire and quickly found that here, winter driving can be a hazardous and expensive … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty0 december 3, 2012 thrifty outings another thrifty baby shower: a 1950s tea party following my post about baby shower crafternoons, here’s another thrifty baby shower idea. remember naiomi? this talented miss thrifty reader kitted out her baby’s beautiful nursery on a slashed budget. she also masterminded her own baby shower, in keeping with … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty3 october 31, 2012 thrifty outings baby shower crafternoons i want to show you a couple of baby shower ideas this week. last year when i was pregnant with thrifty baby, i didn’t have a baby shower. they aren’t really my bag; in fact, the baby shower is one … get the lowdown >> miss thrifty7 october 24, 2012 ← older posts get the latest posts & deals by email: see a sample daily digest email meet miss thrifty miss thrifty is a woman on a mission. she lives in greater manchester, uk, and never pays full price for anything. spend less, live within your means and get out of debt - without resorting to recycling teabags. read more > featured by categories competitions deals & bargains personal finance thrifty baby thrifty beauty thrifty christmas thrifty fashion thrifty food thrifty holidays thrifty home thrifty homebody thrifty outings thrifty planet thrifty wedding latest posts the mythbuster’s guide to saving money on energy billsseptember 5, 2018 rockstar finance gave me $100 to spread some love at christmas. this is how i spent it.december 30, 2017 how to make a reverse advent calendarnovember 3, 2017 what can you do with an old pound coin? here are 5 great ideas.october 22, 2017 decorating a 1950s bedroom on a budgetoctober 21, 2017 popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy stepsjanuary 16, 2014 eight simple ways to reduce food wastejanuary 10, 2014 how to get money off at currys & pc world every time.december 17, 2013 how to get money off at debenhams every time.november 7, 2013 how to make a fruit fly trapseptember 8, 2013 how to make your own toilet cleaneroctober 20, 2011 six thrifty uses for a lemonaugust 28, 2009 make do and mend: vogue for the credit crunch bunchseptember 30, 2008 lifestyle blog of the year the cosmo cupcake of win: miss thrifty won cosmpolitan's lifestyle blog of the year award in 2011. nom nom. read more > popular posts become an expert haggler in four easy steps eight simple ways to reduce food waste how to get money off at currys & pc world every time. join the thrifties get the latest posts & deals by email: © miss thrifty - all rights reserved the floating frog handmade in the uk google