grab some samples! what better way to experience the quality of timberchíc wall planks than to get some samples! order timberchíc sample pack or stay in touch below search spring sale! save 15% off with promo code spring15 0 search history shop wall coverings black ice coastal white driftwood breakwater freestone river planks sandy beach sample pack river plank herringbone edges & finishing outside corner end cap tools j-roller how-to team contact search search history shop shop wall coverings wall coverings black ice coastal white driftwood breakwater freestone river planks sandy beach sample pack river plank herringbone edges & finishing edges & finishing outside corner end cap tools tools j-roller how-to team contact your shopping cart it appears that your cart is currently empty! continue shopping because paint is boring revolutionize your walls with wood the world hasn’t seen in 100 years and finally see the forest from the trees. see it to believe it northwoods sophistication down home diy give any room a mini makeover with our river-reclaimed timberchíc wall planks. not only will your guests compliment you, but your walls will thank you. plus with trusted 3m backing, timberchíc is easy to put up and will always stay up. whatever your style, we’ve got one for you black ice from $10/sqft coastal white from $10/sqft breakwater from $10/sqft sandy beach from $10/sqft driftwood from $10/sqft freestone from $10/sqft river planks from $10/sqft river plank herringbone $90.00 shop wall coverings the woods are calling rustic chic our real wood wall planks give your room modern beauty reclaimed from the past. 3m backing because if you’re going to go through all the trouble to do something, do it right. made in maine we’re proud to be a small company deep in the heart of maine’s famed forests. a process you have to see to believe doing it yourself never felt so good wonderful customer service and product. very user friendly. telling all my family and friends about timberchic. thank you! debbie i love this product! no nails, screws, power tools, little to no mess and had fun too!! thanks for the nice, competent people at timberchic. second project coming soon. derek just do it. pull the trigger. i shopped around, got samples from every competitor. none were as nice as timberchic's. and installation was, dare i say it, fun! steve follow us stay in the loop new colors, new styles, new news! search home history shop how-to retailers contact twitter facebook instagram pinterest american express apple pay discover google pay mastercard paypal shop pay venmo visa usd inr gbp cad aud eur jpy