skip to content skip to primary sidebar search miranda marquit helping you grow your money tree freelancing freelance writing other freelancing pro blogging writing tips productivity money finance investing home business career life family politics goals reflections mormons pet peeves about resume samples services subscribe contact resources time management and productivity how to batch your writing — and improve your productivity january 20, 2020 by miranda marquit leave a comment i'm constantly asked about how i manage my productivity. by learning how to batch your writing, it's possible to take your freelance business to a new level. over the years, i've tried just about … continue reading about how to batch your writing — and improve your productivity that time i took a year off from writing december 31, 2017 by miranda marquit 9 comments it’s been a long, strange year. and, even though i wrote every.single.day, i didn’t do writing for me. so it’s really like i took a year off from writing. but i’m ready to dive back in. one of the … continue reading about that time i took a year off from writing what should you do when you miss a deadline? july 6, 2016 by miranda marquit 2 comments at some point you’ll miss a deadline. here’s how to handle the situation. recently, i’ve become the world’s flakiest freelancer. i’ve had a lot going on in my life the last two years. from two … continue reading about what should you do when you miss a deadline? 5 strategies to help you improve your writing focus october 20, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment staying on task can be hard for many freelancers. here are some strategies that can help you improve your writing focus. i love working from home as a freelancer, but sometimes the fact that you're … continue reading about 5 strategies to help you improve your writing focus life getting away from you? choosing what to let slide september 1, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment is life getting away from you? if so, you might need to start figuring out what your true priorities are. it's been an interesting four months. my life has been getting away from me, and i finally … continue reading about life getting away from you? choosing what to let slide how to set up your ideal work area june 16, 2015 by miranda marquit leave a comment does your work area encourage you to do your best work? as someone who works from home, it’s important for me to have a work area that helps me focus my attention so that my efforts are more … continue reading about how to set up your ideal work area go to page 1 go to page 2 go to page 3 interim pages omitted … go to page 8 go to next page » primary sidebar this page may contain affiliate links when you click on a link on this page or on an ad, i might receive a small commission. however, my reviews and editorial remain independent. read my disclaimer and privacy policy. latest posts the future of work — will we see a change in (white collar) work due to social distancing? what can i do to help? how to do good when you feel you can’t make a difference money q&a: covid-19, stock market crash, and emergencies feeling bad about money: stock market drop edition how i botched my debt consolidation, destroyed my credit and was sued by a bank disclaimer and privacy policy copyright © 2020 · mirandamarquit.com