millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes i've successfully traded penny stocks for 20 years. i explained to larry king exactly how... apply to work with me tim's trading challenge learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 i developed my strategy the hard way over 20 years of blood, sweat,and tears; so you don't have to! i'll show you exactly what to do and when to do it! apply to the challenge as seen on work with tim my trading performance learn my trading strategy **the trading profit figures stated are my personal profit figures. please understand my results are not typical, i’m not implying you'll duplicate them. the average person who trades stocks get little to no results. any investment is at your own risk. ready to learn how to trade? step #1 checkout my trading challenge work with tim step #2 read my comprehensive guide on trading penny stocks read the guide step #3 improve your knowledge by reading my blog read the blog step #4 subscribe to my youtube channel learn how to trade about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖