millionaire trader preferred broker blog penny stocks 101 (guide) how to find good penny stocks 6 crazy day trading myths versus reality earnings per share guide after hours trading tips pre-market trading: prep techniques for traders operating income guide 37 stock market terms you should know how to short a stock (guide) more blog posts … press about tim sykes about timothy sykes timothy sykes is a penny stock trader, trading teacher, world traveler, entrepreneur, and philanthropist. humble beginnings originally from middle-class connecticut, tim had an interest in the stock market from a young age. but it wasn’t until an injury put a successful tennis career on hold that he began to explore the markets in earnest. he persuaded his parents to let him use $12,415 in bar mitzvah gift money to invest in the stock market. figuring it was his money to lose, they gave their blessing… …but he didn’t lose that money. he began learning everything he could at the market, and regularly skipped classes in favor of trading penny stocks. it paid off: by the time he was a senior in college, he was a self-made millionaire. he’d also established a scholarship for his alma mater of tulane, and established a hedge fund. his hedge fund went on to become the #1 ranked short bias fund by barclay for three years and he was named to trader monthly’s “top 30 under 30” in 2006. changing gears ultimately, as documented in the best-selling trading autobiography “an american hedge fund,” his strategy was not scalable, and his fund lost 35% when he tried long-term investing instead of trading. as it turned out, this was the catalyst for a much-needed shift in his career. sykes would go on to appear on the docu-series “wall street warriors,” where a bit part turned into a starring role in 5 of the 6 episodes of the show’s hit first season, which aired in 20+ countries. yep: you can still find some episodes on youtube. the show’s success led to hundreds of inquiries from aspiring traders who wanted to learn from his trading strategy. this inspired him to change his focus to helping emerging traders find their way … while also cutting through the bs that’s so entrenched in the trading industry. from trader to trading influencer, entrepreneur, and teacher with key goals of transparency and providing real, quality information, tim began creating a variety of resources for traders. what started with newsletters and instructional dvd packages quickly expanded into platforms and events for traders, including: investimonials.com, a community of over 65,000 investors & traders who have reviewed over 25,000 financial products like brokers, blogs, newsletters, websites, financial movies and commentators. profit.ly, a community of over 160,000 traders (and counting) who share their performance and trades openly. on profit.ly, you can see all of tim’s trades. stockstotrade, an incredible stock screener and trading platform that allows traders to find promising stocks to trade. trader & investor summit, a trading education and networking event that has taken place annually since 2015 in orlando. tim sykes trading challenge tim’s biggest and most ambitious project to date is the trading challenge. he developed this educational program for traders based on the knowledge he amassed in his 20+ year trading career. the trading challenge helps new traders become self-sufficient through learning key patterns, trading strategies, and best practices so that they can pave their own way toward reaching their trading goals. check out some of the 10,000+ trading challenge students here. tim’s approach as a teacher is unique: every year, he goes back to his roots and starts anew with a small account, allowing him to trade like his students and teach them most effectively. curious about tim’s students who have crossed the million-dollar mark**? read about some of them here and here. in the press tim’s approach as a teacher has been different from many other trading educators. he’s been featured in a variety of different media outlets, including: cnn cnbc fox business fox tv forbes larry king men’s journal steve harvey he’s also written extensively for websites like entrepreneur and huffington post. want even more? view tim’s press clippings. world traveler and philanthropist these days, you can find tim living his best life as a teacher, trader, and traveler. he mostly trades and teaches from the road, and has visited over 100 countries and counting. he is also deeply devoted to charitable work. here are some highlights: co-founder of karmagawa, a charitable organization dedicated to saving the environment, endangered species, and more through the timothy sykes foundation, 35 schools have been built or are in development, in over a dozen countries around the world. donated $1 million to pencils of promise, which has been used to build 20 schools and buy tablets to improve the education process in ghana, laos, and guatemala. donations to cancer warriors, autism works now, make-a-wish, boys & girls club, second chance humane society, buildon, the uncf, cambodian village fund, the bali children’s project, the houston food bank, the food bank of corpus christi, and lifting hearts breast cancer group. stay up to date want to keep up with tim on a day-to-day basis? it’s a fun ride. here’s where to find him: facebook instagram youtube latest blog posts: 10 common trading mistakes how to think long-term with penny stocks short selling tips i’m using today –– tips from a 7-figure student the 6 minute life lesson every trader needs to hear forex trading: what it is, how it works, and how to get started black friday stock market: one of my favorite seasonal patterns 7 reasons i’m thankful to be a trader and teacher 5 lessons for long-term trading success krtx supernova: penny stock patterns on high-priced companies the hidden benefits of the pattern day trader rule got questions? tim and his team welcome your questions and comments. get in touch here! ready to join the trading challenge? get started here. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. my goal is to teach you how i have succeeded in the market, but you may not achieve my results. remember, there are risks involved with investing, including the potential loss of money. click here for additional important information. about tim sykes is a penny stock trader and teacher who became a self-made millionaire by the age of 22 by trading $12,415 of bar mitzvah money. after becoming disenchanted with the hedge fund world, he established the tim sykes trading challenge to teach aspiring traders how to follow his trading strategies. he’s been featured in a variety of media outlets including cnn, larry king, steve harvey, forbes, men’s journal, and more. he’s also an active philanthropist and environmental activist, a co-founder of karmagawa, and has donated millions of dollars to charity. read more have what it takes to become successful? let me walk you step-by-step through how i earn profits. take action now. work with tim get my weekly watchlist, free signup to jump start your trading education! 100% privacy. i will never spam you! tim's best content current all time case studies why your trading chat room is key coronavirus risk: what’s really at stake how the coronavirus sports ban can help you learn to trade smarter millionaire mentor update: urgent coronavirus update the pandemic effect: coronavirus stocks and sectors the bear market edge: coronavirus stock sympathy plays penny stocks 101 the best video lessons every penny stock trader and short seller should watch 10 key stock market lessons from my first millionaire student** 5 lessons from my steve harvey show interview how i helped a student turn $1,500 into $1 million in 3 years my review of ‘trading tickers’ the best stock trading guide ever created case study: how i taught tim grittani to make 1075% return in 16 months case study: how i helped a mother of two become a full time trader day trading testimonials "i'm a 29 year old single mother of two. i do not have a regular 9 to 5. i am currently day trading as a living. prior to discovering timothy sykes i played around with a couple other mentors and penny pick sites. sadly not being taught the basic fundamentals i lost $5500-terrible! i found tim's website in may and now i'm up 50k learning from tim sykes. i am extremely grateful for tim, he is the truth hands down!" - asheya burton learn how i turned $12,415 into $5,119,603 trading stocks - timothy sykes of profit.ly click here to learn more about timothy sykes i became a self-made millionaire by the age of 21, trading thousands of penny stocks - yep you read that right, penny stocks. you may have heard ... read more tim's important resources penny stocking 101: how to get started with penny stocks which penny stocks to buy how to invest in penny stocks home about affiliates chatroom contact tim ** results may not be typical and may vary from person to person. making money trading stocks takes time, dedication, and hard work. there are inherent risks involved with investing in the stock market, including the loss of your investment. past performance in the market is not indicative of future results. any investment is at your own risk. see terms of service here.. millionaire media 80 s.w. 8th street suite 2000 miami, florida 33130 united states (203) 980-1361 this is for information purposes only as millionaire media llc nor timothy sykes is registered as a securities broker-dealer or an investment adviser. no information herein is intended as securities brokerage, investment, tax, accounting or legal advice, as an offer or solicitation of an offer to sell or buy, or as an endorsement, recommendation or sponsorship of any company, security or fund. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes cannot and does not assess, verify or guarantee the adequacy, accuracy or completeness of any information, the suitability or profitability of any particular investment, or the potential value of any investment or informational source. the reader bears responsibility for his/her own investment research and decisions, should seek the advice of a qualified securities professional before making any investment, and investigate and fully understand any and all risks before investing. millionaire media llc and timothy sykes in no way warrants the solvency, financial condition, or investment advisability of any of the securities mentioned in communications or websites. in addition, millionaire media llc and timothy sykes accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of this information. this information is not intended to be used as the sole basis of any investment decision, nor should it be construed as advice designed to meet the investment needs of any particular investor. past performance is not necessarily indicative of future returns. ©2007-2020 timothysykes™ all rights reserved. millionaire publishing llc terms of service and user agreement privacy policy (statement) earnings disclosure member agreement code of conduct what people are saying we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.✖