menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login announcement: tired of being stuck in the past? learn to let go and live a life you love with the tiny buddha course! from the blog 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance sign up change & challenges happiness & fun healthy habits letting go love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace work fulfillment search search recreate your life story a fun creative course, blending self-help and film, that will help you let go of the past, feel free and happy in the present, and create a fulfilling future. learn more "i have too many flaws to be perfect, but i have too many blessings to be ungrateful." ~unknown from the blog 14-day meditation challenge: put down your phone and be if you think people-pleasing is being kind… stressed and anxious? here’s how to stay emotionally healthy trauma can make us sick: how i found a key to healing 3 approaches to the coronavirus (and which is smartest) books & things worry journal gratitude journal 365 tiny love challenges community emotional mastery emotional learning journey brain science behind giving up what you need to master relationships abandonment issues & experiencing love? breakup, cheating, bad fight, just looking for advice? heartbroken lost lonely _ how move on tough times transition out of a deep depression covid-19: let's try to understand it better death of a friendship join the forums all categories all topics tiny buddha gear good vibes only just breathe peace love music you’re doing better than you think see all designs, colors, and styles! popular posts why strong chemistry doesn’t always lead to a strong relationship 10 things i’ve let go and how this has set me free how holding on to unrequited love keeps you alone and stuck 10 signs you’re being true to yourself 5 things to stop doing when you’re struggling and feeling drained fun & inspiring don’t let social distance lead to emotional distance do what you can never take the little things for granted all great changes your final destination disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top