menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login tiny wisdom posts how i got stronger and healthier after giving up animal products (a vegan q&a) by nina grey “your body is precious. it is your vehicle for awakening. treat it with care.” ~buddha not that long ago, i ate meat every single day. every. single. day. for breakfast, i used to have fried eggs with feta or cottage … 3 ways to cultivate gratitude and boost your happiness by danijela jokic vaislay “gratitude can turn common days into thanksgivings, turn routine jobs into joy, and change ordinary opportunities into blessings.” ~william arthur ward living in india for more than two years now has been an eye opening experience for me, as i’ve … tiny wisdom: the pain of anticipating pain by lori deschene “if pleasures are greatest in anticipation, just remember that this is also true of troubles.” ~elbert hubbard the other day i had to get some moles removed after a biopsy showed they were “severely atypical.” since they were both on … tiny wisdom: when time feels constricting by lori deschene “an unhurried sense of time is in itself a form of wealth.” ~bonnie friedman have you ever felt controlled by time? this has been a lifelong challenge for me. sometimes it can be difficult for me to truly immerse myself … tiny wisdom: the things we don’t want to do by lori deschene “if a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away.” ~henry david thoreau every now and then, … tiny wisdom: think less, feel more by lori deschene “get out of your head and get into your heart. think less, feel more.” ~osho have you ever felt attached to your thoughts—like you knew you were thinking yourself in circles, but a part of you wanted to keep getting … tiny wisdom: remembering the good things by lori deschene “joy in looking and comprehending is nature’s most beautiful gift.” ~albert einstein as i was walking to my apartment just now, i heard the voice of a child who was walking in the same direction with an adult across the … tiny wisdom: caring about what others think (and do) by lori deschene “no one can make you feel inferior without your consent.” ~eleanor roosevelt growing up i often heard the phrase “you shouldn’t care so much.” derivatives of this idea included: so what if they’re talking about you. who cares what they … tiny wisdom: loving the process of a passion by lori deschene “never underestimate the power of passion.” ~eve sawyer last week, i began writing my second book. i originally intended to start a month ago, but life got in the way, as it often does. in order to make my september … tiny wisdom: help people help themselves by lori deschene “nobody can give you wiser advice than yourself.” ~cicero since i write about overcoming adversity, i receive a lot of emails and blog comments from readers seeking advice. when i first started this site, i promised myself i’d never tell … tiny wisdom: being both strong and hurt by lori deschene “pain is not a sign of weakness, but bearing it alone is a choice to grow weak.” ~from my book, tiny buddha a while back, my friends and i dealt with a challenging situation that profoundly affected all of us, … tiny wisdom: stop fighting and be easy by lori deschene “if you surrender completely to the moments as they pass, you live more richly those moments.” ~anne morrow lindbergh there was a time when i was full of angst, and desperate to unleash it. since i felt misunderstood in some … tiny wisdom: actions speak louder than words by lori deschene “actions speak louder than words, but not nearly as often.” ~mark twain a while back i wrote a blog post about giving people the benefit the doubt and suggested, as i often do, that people rarely intend to be hurtful.… tiny wisdom: treat people how they want to be treated by lori deschene “if we are to live together in peace, we must come to know each other better.” ~lyndon johnson a while back, i told a friend that i try to follow the old adage “treat people how you wanted to be … tiny wisdom: rebuilding trust after being hurt by lori deschene “when mistrust comes in, love goes out.” ~irish saying an old friend of mine felt betrayed by her boyfriend, but chose not to leave him. instead, she made him pay for it over and over again. through subtle digs and … tiny wisdom: what we pay attention to by lori deschene “tell me to what you pay attention and i will tell you who you are.” ~jose ortega y gassett have you ever suddenly stopped yourself after realizing you’d been dwelling on something insignificant for way too long? maybe it was … tiny wisdom: what makes us rich by lori deschene “if you realize that you have enough, you are truly rich.” ~lau tzu in the pixar movie up, carl and ellie save all their lives to visit paradise falls only to realize they’re never able to save enough. every … tiny wisdom: enjoying the people we love by lori deschene “good relationships don’t just happen. they take time, patience, and two people who truly want to be together.” ~unknown in the past, whenever i heard someone say that relationships take effort, i assumed it was a person who wasn’t in … tiny wisdom: the relationships we wish would improve by lori deschene “when you stop trying to change others and work on changing yourself, your world changes for the better.” ~unknown there are certain relationships that we don’t want to end; we just want them to improve. sometimes it might seem like … tiny wisdom: what are you waiting for? by lori deschene “before someone’s tomorrow has been taken away, cherish those you love, appreciate them today.” ~michelle c. ustaszeski most of us are really good at finding reasons to wait. we wait to call good friends we miss because we assume we’ll … page 1 of 1712345...10...»last » translate get more fun & inspiring images & videos. fun & inspiring do what you can disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top