newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close tiny houses in house tours a small rustic modern joshua tree cabin is full of diy project ideastours from lighting, to doors, to tile, this 780-square-foot cabin was totally diyed by the homeowners who blew their budget on a down payment! adrienne breaux this 331-square-foot tiny house fits more things than we can list in a headlinetours full-time freelance photographer and music enthusiast ryan tuttle lives in a small custom designed tiny house on wheels she calls the "tuttle shuttle." apartment therapy submissions jan 27, 2020 this california a-frame cabin is truly an adorable home in the woodstours click if you want to see a cat adorably jump-climbing up a ladder. adrienne breaux jan 22, 2020 9 of the best, most unusual homes we toured in 2019tours from house boats, to rvs, to tiny houses, and more, these were some of the most beautiful and unusual homes we toured this year! adrienne breaux dec 30, 2019 this 400-square-foot narrow boat is the cutest floating home, possibly evertours smart storage and sleek style make this small houseboat the perfect home and office for a designing couple. apartment therapy submissions dec 5, 2019 yes, people who live in rvs decorate for the holidays and this home is prooftours this mountain modern-style motorhome feels more like a cozy cabin than an outdated motel room. apartment therapy submissions dec 3, 2019 this van isn't just a small home on wheels... it's a music recording studio, tootours tom converted this cargo van himself into a home on wheels... and it also serves as a mobile music recording studio! apartment therapy submissions dec 3, 2019 a 100-square-foot mini school bus is a surprisingly cozy tiny home on wheels tours it feels a lot larger than its small size, too! adrienne breaux nov 19, 2019 before & after: an abandoned airstream turned warm tiny home on wheelstours formerly used as a storage shed, this 1972 airstream was filled with mold, lizards, mouse traps, but after a full gut renovation, “honey” is now a 31-foot home on wheels. apartment therapy submissions nov 14, 2019 a 160-square-foot tiny house could be one of the most beautiful built this yeartours the builders were inspired by the serene and airy atmosphere of japanese tea rooms and american mid-century modern architecture. apartment therapy submissions nov 8, 2019 'tiny miss dolly on wheels' is the most charming tiny house evertours name: dolly rubiano villacortelocation: victoria, australiasize: 270 square feet, including the two sleeping loftsyears lived in: 2 years, ownedwith almost 100 thousand instagram followers and a popular blog, chances are you’ve come across an image of dolly’s tiny house before. filled with plants, bathed in sunlight, and seeming much larger than its teeny 270 square feet, it’s easy to see why her handmade home is a favorite of fans of tiny house architecture. natalie jeffcott nov 4, 2019 before and after: a dated rv is now a bright 320-square-foot home to a family of fourtours once dark and dated, after a modern renovation this home-on-wheels is now light and bright! apartment therapy submissions jun 17, 2019 instead of a pricey wedding, these newlyweds hit the road in a renovated campertours they ditched a $30k wedding and decided to travel the us for three months instead in a 19-foot renovated camper. apartment therapy submissions jun 10, 2019 a 300-square-foot rv is a tiny home on wheels for a couple and their three dogstours although small, this tiny home on wheels has hookups for everything a normal house has besides a dishwasher. apartment therapy submissions jun 5, 2019 a woman and her snake share a stylish (and surprisingly spacious) converted van home video house tour it's not only home to jennelle, but also to her white ball python snake alfredo! impressively, she also did the entire van conversions herself. adrienne breaux jun 1, 2019 a family of three snuggles into a 200-square-foot modern minimalist tiny house on wheelstours a young family of three has customized a cute tiny house on wheels to be the minimal, functional home of their needs. apartment therapy submissions may 28, 2019 a young couple built this cute and cozy tiny house themselvestours nicolette and michael built their very own tiny house in 2018 in just seven months. and they've fit a lot in to just 300 square feet! adrienne breaux may 18, 2019 one of the most personal, custom (and stylish) tiny houses evertours in this new 6-part series, we meet the people redefining what home means today. home is where you make it. hayley lawrence mar 19, 2019 fern the bus is a tiny, incredibly organized home on wheelstours a couple and their baby call this converted school bus home when they are on the road having adventures. adrienne breaux mar 7, 2019 this custom tiny house has the most beautiful craftsmanshiptours built-in bookshelves, smart custom storage, and every inch used, this custom-built tiny house is defined by beautiful and fine workmanship. liz calka dec 17, 2018 this cute renovated tiny home on wheels is called augustine the airstreamtours augustine the airstream is freedom in a tin can. apartment therapy submissions oct 22, 2018 this is one of the most beautiful, livable tiny houses we’ve ever seentours name: haley and michael location: northwest philadelphia, pennsylvania size: 160 square feet years lived in: 6 months, owned michael, a baker and craftsman, and haley live together in a tiny house in the germantown neighborhood of philadelphia. they both have builders and tinkerers in their families, so the idea of building their own home came naturally. and choosing a tiny house to reside in opened the imagination to the possibilities and benefits of living simply. carina romano may 1, 2018 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc