tips on styling indian jewellery with western clothes – lifestyle by ps
  home sweatshirts t-shirts blog expand submenu blog collapse submenu blog fashion fitness grooming log in create account cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us your cart close cart site navigation home sweatshirts t-shirts blog fashion fitness grooming log in search cart cart tips on styling indian jewellery with western clothes mar 18, 2020 indian jewellery has some of the most exquisite creations in the world with beauty that is unparalleled. it is extremely versatile in nature and can be worn with various outfits, both indian and western wear, if styled properly. women often shy away from experimenting and wearing indian jewellery with western outfits but if paired right, it works wonders for anyone and makes them stand out in the crowd. in today’s day and age, women hardly wear indian clothes anymore on a daily basis. they prefer wearing western outfits at home, at work and when they go out. as a result, they hardly ever make use of their indian jewellery collection. there is a lot of investment that goes behind indian jewellery and because of our hesitation towards experimenting with them, they are used hardly once or twice a year and the rest of the time are safely packed away in our vanities. the below tips will help you in pairing gold rings for ladies with a cocktail dress next time you have a party to attend. a basic white shirt is your best friend – every girl should own a basic white shirt that fits her well because you can never go wrong with it. a white shirt can be paired with beautiful ethnic skirts or palazzos. any statement neckpiece worn with it will work wonders. it looks extremely chic and elevates the look of the entire outfit. there are many bollywood stars who have rocked this look at events and even in movies and have made a great style statement because of it. trendy designs of gold stud earrings when paired with this looks very elegant. silver jewellery for the win – the latest trend in the fashion world is silver jewellery and how extremely versatile they are. if effortlessly chic and stylish yet comfortable is your style, then a few pieces of silver jewellery are all you need. whether you wear a strappy skater dress, a maxi dress or a top stack on some silver necklaces or earrings to get a bohemian look. throw on a shrug or a cape and you are ready to walk the runway! earrings are a staple – earrings are a favourite with all girls and in that, jhumkas are something they adore. the simplest outfit can be turned out if worn with a pair of gorgeous statement earrings. whether you are wearing a crop top, an off-shoulder dress, a tube top with a high waisted pant or skirt, pairing it with a statement earring will make the entire outfit look stunning. it looks extremely chic and classy and elevates the look of the entire outfit. if you want to go for a more comfortable and everyday look, then a simple t-shirt with ripped denims can also be paired with silver earrings for a very boho look. statement headgear – mangtikas are not just for weddings to be worn with a lehenga or saree. this gorgeous piece of jewellery can be worn with an elegant evening gown, a maxi dress and even with a tank top and ripped denims to make heads turn wherever you go! many bollywood stars have rocked this look on the red carpet, which is proof that if styled right, then it makes for an extremely exquisite style statement. the above tips will form a great foundation for you to not be afraid of experimenting and creating unique looks for yourself. they will help you in styling outfits in new ways and revamping your entire wardrobe every time you step out. the main thing to remember in this is that more is less. do not layer yourself with every piece of jewellery from your vanity. choose that one statement piece that you want to make a style statement with and then let that shine in your outfit. wearing too many can be a fashion disaster. tags: indian jewellery share share on facebook tweet tweet on twitter pin it pin on pinterest leave a comment name email message please note, comments must be approved before they are published more from the blog popularity of enhancing the septum jewelry ... read more women and fashion this summer! ... read more tips to assist you when purchasing the perfect shoes for the workplace ... read more our site is built on shopify. you can too build a money making store. start your store on shopify click here to try shopify for free (14 days free trial with this link) ← back to capsule wardrobe for women disclosure : lifestyle by ps is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com cwg about privacy policy contact us capsule wardrobe ebook men's fashion blog women's fashion blog blog advertise capsule wardrobe for men search fitness disclaimer write for us facebook twitter pinterest instagram google plus © 2020, lifestyle by ps ecommerce software by shopify paypal inr aud cad eur gbp usd search