home about alpha hex art merc tish tosh tesh rambling, rumbling, rumination feeds: posts comments character art tutorial: pirate monkey october 28, 2019 by tesh i’ve been meaning to recycle this article for a while, and i had a few minutes to work on it lately. it’s more or less a copy/paste of an art tutorial i wrote up for the player forums for yohoho puzzle pirates!, a game that i still think well of, even if it’s in its sunset years. i tend to sketch with ballpoint pens, and paint in photoshop. this tutorial covers taking what i think of as a rough sketch, and turning it into a 150×150 pixel “avatar”, but some of the techniques work elsewhere. i do seem to be missing some of the original art, sadly, but the original article is still up on the ypp! forums over here: silveransom’s avatar tech for a “reader’s digest condensed version”, please continue, and as always, i’m happy to answer questions. i’ve added a few asides here and there, always in italics. ===================================================== it’s come up a few times, and i’ve wanted to do a photoshop tutorial since before my ypp days, so here’s a whirlwind tour of my methodology of avatar art. it’s actually a bit generalized, but this is how i wind up doing most of my avatar art. 1. draw something cool in my sketchbook. i do this with a ballpoint pen, most of the time. it’s personal preference… as is the definition of “cool”. this particular monkey is actually a component of an avatar i did for phillite. he works as a standalone critter, though, so i’m reusing him for this project. (which also means that, as might be expected, i ask that the art in this thread not be used elsewhere.) 2. scan it in to photoshop, usually at 600 dpi. this gives me room to play with effects. i usually shrink it down once it’s all painted the way i like it, but i like working big. it gives me more freedom to try big, sweeping brushstrokes, and more precision in tweaking. i bought a cheap memorex scanner on sale for $40 years ago, and it’s been fantastic. by the way, if you’re serious about computer art, do yourself a favor and get a tablet. wacom bamboo tablets are a great entry level product. the software doesn’t matter all that much, since paint.net, gimp and artrage are free and will suffice (clip studio paint and affinity work as fairly low cost powerful single-purchase alternatives as well), and some tablets come with software. i use photoshop elements 2 because it’s what i have handy. i also use painter on occasion, but that’s an indulgence. the tablet, though… that’s almost essential. 3. use photoshop’s levels modifier to clean up the sketch. i make a duplicate of the scanned layer, just in case i need the original for some reason, and apply levels (ctrl-l) to the duplicate. pulling in both end knots a wee bit cleans up most of the static that came from the scan. 4. since my sketches tend to be a little rough, i need to do some rubber stamp surgery to clean up a bit. the rubber stamp tool takes data from a source part of the image, and replicates it elsewhere. you alt-click to define the source, and then “paint” the duplicate, winding up with this sort of effect, here duplicating the alternate arm’s thumb: 5. rubber stamp to clean the drawing, like this, cloning in the blank paper/background into the areas that should be clean on the drawing… it may take a bit of work and several clone source points, chosen each time with the alt-click: 6. i then make a new level (on which i’ll be painting), and move the clean sketch to the top of the stack, and set the level blending type to multiply. this lets me treat it as an outline, and paint the color in underneath. 7. start painting on a layer underneath the drawing. i don’t paint on the drawing layer. all coloring takes place on layers between the drawing and the white background layer i’ve set up. this gives me the ability to tweak the painting independent of the background and the sketch. this use of layers is one of the huge strengths of photoshop (or any program that uses layers), and why working digitally can be a very different animal from traditional art. 8. the base color for the monkey is in, carefully covering his space. now, it’s time for another layer for the shadowing. 9. the shadow layer is just a bit of paint that’s darker than the base color. it’s painted in a bit roughly at first… 10. then the gaussian blur filter gets applied, to soften it up (i usually do this, as illustrated, on a copy of the shadow painting layer, just in case i need to go back a step and tweak it): 11. this makes for a nice rounding effect, and even gives a nice “reflected lighting” subtlety to the larger areas, like the monkey’s torso. (the dark side of most objects in real space is tempered a bit by reflected light, which this neatly simulates.) 12. the gaussian blur pretty much obliterates the subtle shadows in the hair, so i make a new layer, and start painting in new, detailed shadows. these are brushstrokes, like the main shadow layer, but i don’t use the gaussian blur on these. i just use the smudge tool to push things around the way i like them. here’s a close shot on the hair in progress: and the tail: and i sharpen up the cast shadow under the chin with a few additive strokes: 13. erase around the edges of both shadow layers. it’s a subtle thing, but this shows how the gaussian blur pushed the color out of the outlines. i prefer to keep things clean, so i erase the blurred bit. of further note, looking at this from 2019, this edge cleanup can also be accomplished by putting all of the color layers into a layer group, and adding a layer mask to that group that simply masks off anything not inside of where you want colors. this lets you create the edge cleanup for all of the color layers with a single operation, which is a great update to the workflow. photoshop elements 2 had neither layer masks nor layer groups, so this is a bare-bones tutorial. the fuller releases of photoshop give more tools to work with, including “smart objects”, which i’ll revisit in a different tutorial. 14. now for a highlight layer. i do this the same way i did the shadow layer, just with a different color, and from a different direction. in other words, paint, blur, and make a secondary highlight layer for detail work, then erase around the edges to be clean: 15. since monkeys in ypp have a two tone look to them, with the belly, feet, hands and face a different color, i make a new layer to try to get this effect. 16. paint the relevant parts in a lighter color, then change the layer blending options to get the desired effect. i settled on soft light. this allows me to paint in a second color tone, without losing the shading and hair effects i’ve made so far. i’m using a subtle secondary tone here, and you can do more with color shifting by using a different paint color and layer compositing effects like hue (instead of soft light) that shifts the color underneath while maintaining the shading: 17. close to being done, it’s time for little tuning. i decided that the monkey’s belly needed a bit more dimension, so i added a bit to the shadows: 18. finish by painting the sword on a few new layers, using similar effects for shading: add a layer for his eyes and nose… aaand he’s done! since this was done at 600 dpi, it’s not really ready for an avatar. it comes out to be this big, useful for seeing detail: after rescaling the resolution, a middle sized version looks like this: and the avatar might look like this: it loses a lot of detail at that scale, so this methodology isn’t always appropriate. it’s how i work because i like to have my art around at high resolution if i need it for my portfolio, especially if i need to print it out. working high and reducing as necessary winds up looking a lot better than working small and magnifying it if necessary. i would also usually go back and flatten some layers, erase the edges, throw in a background and/or a border… but that’s about it. thanks for stopping by! i’m happy to answer any questions. -silver posted in administrative, art | tagged art, ballpoint pen, monkey, paint, photoshop, pirate, sketch, tutorial, yohoho puzzle pirates | leave a comment » trouble on the tracks: tinker bits iv july 25, 2019 by tesh hello everyone! yes, it’s been far too long since i’ve posted here, but that’s just how life goes sometimes. this time, as last time, it’s to announce a new kickstarter campaign we’re running, this time for some steampunk train-themed tabletop game bits. trouble on the tracks: tinker bits iv there are a bunch of photos of the prototypes over here, too: project khopesh on pinterest, tinker train bits please spread the word! promotional algorithms on social media sites aren’t kind to self-promotion, and many forums outright forbid it. it’s hobbling crowdfunding a bit, and we greatly appreciate any boosted signal that you can offer, even if you don’t want to jump into the project yourself. thank you all! tesh …and yes, there are still some “steam backlog” mini reviews in the pipeline, i just need to make time to polish things up a bit. posted in art, game design, tinker | tagged games, kickstarter, meeples, steampunk, tabletop, tinker, trains | leave a comment » tinker bits iii: scourge of the skies steampunk metal meeples may 10, 2018 by tesh ok, we’re live! thank you all for stopping by and checking out the preview last time, and please spread the word on this project! we’re looking forward to getting the dragons made, especially, but all 4 designs are fun additions to the tinker line of goodies. https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/tishtoshtesh/tinker-bits-iii-scourge-of-the-skies-metal-meeples/description posted in administrative, art, tinker | tagged dragon, kickstarter, meeples, metal, tinker | leave a comment » tinker meeples iii: scourge of the skies, sneak preview april 17, 2018 by tesh posted in administrative, art, photography | tagged art, design, games, kickstarter, meeple, tabletop game | leave a comment » meeples, mayhem and mangling september 8, 2017 by tesh it’s time to follow up on the meeple mayhem post. past time, actually, but life is busy. i promised to do some damage to some meeples last time. i didn’t get to do quite what i had planned, but i did get to send them through a cycle and a half in the clothes dryer. i figured that the warmth, slightly elevated humidity and constant agitation could simulate wear and tear of backpacks and pockets well enough to get some bead on what might happen over time with them. for the most part, it looks like the bag that they were in doesn’t make much difference. they all wound up dinged a bit, and there are the occasional bits of plating that come off, most notable on the antiqued copper. this isn’t a surprise, but it’s nice to have some photos to show what happened. i did run into a weird event where it looks like the top hat male first generation tinker meeple, finished in “misty gold”, wound up mostly stripped of gold. none of the other designs had this happen for their misty gold, though, and looking back at the “before” photo, i can’t be sure that i actually had a misty gold top hat meeple in the batch in the first place. i grabbed one from each of my bins, but maybe the one that i thought was misty gold was actually another antiqued silver. so, i did another experiment with just 4 top hat meeples, making sure that there was a misty gold in the mix. this one didn’t have a big problem, though it did show a bit more wear than the other colors (mostly some thinning in the face area, no big chips or scrapes). as such, i think that for the most part, i’m happy with how these worked out. the misty gold top hat does disappoint me a bit, but gold is soft, so this isn’t shocking, sadly. i wish i could say with impunity that these little folk were incredibly durable, but it’s just a reality that any plated metal will have this sort of issue. we can’t really make solid copper or solid gold meeples… though that would certainly be a blast if we could say we did and they sold enough to make it worthwhile. at any rate, overall i’m sufficiently pleased with the overall durability, since the zinc alloy core is plenty tough. the dings and scrapes that come with life as a metal are just part of the bargain in my book, but it’s nice to finally have some photos to show off. it might also be worth noting that this just simulates mechanical wear and tear. i haven’t found a great way to simulate months and/or years of handling with the natural oils on human skin. i suspect that such would be a surface issue, though, so you’re likely to see the same sort of effects that you might have with other metallic items, like truly silver silverware or copper coins. thank you! posted in administrative, art, photography, tinker | leave a comment » meeple mangling, for science! august 17, 2017 by tesh this is something that i should have done before now, but it’s time to do some transportation experiments with our metal meeples. specifically, i’m going to put five groups of meeples into five different bags, carry them around and beat them up a bit, and see just how well they handle the experience. first, the “top hat” meeples, in a not-quite-silk bag. it’s the smoothest, softest bag i have on hand. second, the “dame” meeples in a flashy pink leather bag. it’s soft, slightly fuzzy leather, just… pink. third, the “mad scientist” meeples in a rubber and metal chain mail bag. we picked this one up on kickstarter here, and while it’s a fantastic bag, i’m curious to see how the metals cooperate, or fail to. fourth, the “tinkerer” meeples, in a rough burlap sack. the life of a tinkerer can be rough, scraping by with odds and ends. fifth, the “fairy” meeples will be in a small soft cloth bag, sort of a velour material. it’s a bit more textured and solid than the silk-like bag. i’ll hang these on our stationary bicycle and let them bump around a bit, then pack them in a backpack for a while, letting them mosh about in the bottom. we’ll see how things turn out, and i’ll take some “after” photos after a week of the beatings. see you on the other side! posted in uncategorized | 1 comment » mad science meeples, en route august 2, 2017 by tesh just a quick observation this time: the mad science metal meeples are out the door later today, so that’s another kickstarter project wrapped and polished off. https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/tishtoshtesh/tinker-bits-ii-mad-science-metal-meeples/posts/1952937 i’ve no idea what happens next. i have 3 projects i’d like to do… tomorrow, but this pesky thing called “real life” has me scrambling to see about getting a second college degree in a maybe-futile effort at a new career. this is also why i haven’t written here much in the past few years; the simple problem with finding ways to pay the bills means i don’t have the luxury of blathering as much as i’d like. there’s no lack of ideas, just a lack of time. posted in uncategorized | leave a comment » older posts » pluggery tish tosh tesh toyz on zazzle puzzle pirates (referral link and my pirate) wizard 101 (referral link) my w101 friend code: 64503-12124-87113-31892 a kingdom for keflings allods online art a world of keflings balance battletech blizzard blogging board game business business model card game choice christmas class design dice druid economy f2p fiction final fantasy finance game game design game development game industry gaming gearpunk guild wars holiday humor indie keflings kickstarter metal microtransaction minecraft mmo monetization music ninjabee operation backlog philosophy photography playing cards poker political politics psychology puzzle puzzle pirates pvp rpg sale shapeways steam steampunk storytelling strategy subscription tactical tactics tinker tinker deck tinker dice video game wahoo warcraft wizard 101 world of warcraft wow writing xbox zomblobs blogroll 6 inch move a ding world a green mushroom a high latency life above 49 aim for the head anjin in exile ardwulf’s lair armor blog avatars of steel awash bhagpuss big bear butt blog bio break blue kae brainy gamer brass goggles bright hub mmo channel bull copra cap’n john’s blog casual is as casual does channel massive cipher prime crazy kinux (eve) crits happen cynwise dacheng dead end thrills deuwowlity dragonchasers dwism eccentrica jones elder game epic slant epic.ben experience points fool’s age fun in games game by night games and geekery gamesetwatch giving up control gnomeageddon harbinger zero heal over time heartless gamer hiwiller hunter's insight i have touched the sky i haz pc image heavy imraith in an age ixobelle j1m kiasa kill ten rats klepsacovic lessons learned level capped lost garden mana obscura matticus mike darga mind bending puzzle mmo gamer chick mmomisanthrope modran's random miles muckbeast (frogdice) mystic worlds need more rage nils no twinkies! nugget! of course paperwalker peregrine design philosopher gamer pink pigtail inn pixel poppers player vs. developer postcards from azeroth procedural world procrastination amplification professor beej psychochild psychology of games pumping irony raging monkeys rampant coyote random lives raph koster rog's 4th wall running off cliffs scott hartsman serial ganker shards of imagination sirlin spinksville stabbed up stylish corpse sugarpunk systemic babble taija's drawing board terra nova terrible idea thallian and anton the ancient gaming noob the forge the friendly necromancer tim howgego tipa’s west karana tk nation tobold twenty sided we fly spitfires what games are why i game wiqd wolfshead word of shadow writer on fire xoduz yeebo fernbottom zzz daedalus project (retired) zzz resto4life (retired) archives october 2019 july 2019 may 2018 april 2018 september 2017 august 2017 march 2017 february 2017 november 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 september 2015 august 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 september 2008 august 2008 search for: march 2020 s m t w t f s 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 « oct recent comments snow geeky! fandom i… on steampunk snowflake meeples, mayhem and… on meeple mangling, for scie… art post: new year p… on snowflake seeds [nbi] in which we ce… on nbi: hobnobbing idle doodles | kamal… on dragon aged top posts epic lute: battle bards podcast daily dose of dice #5: alphabet soup tish tosh tesh twit rt @thebabylonbee: toilet paper crisis solved as government prints trillions of soft, fresh dollar bills buff.ly/33rlt6u 16 minutes ago rt @zubymusic: saudi arabia has free healthcare, free school, free university, and essentially no taxes. "but they don't have freedom of s… 4 hours ago rt @gookbox20: https://t.co/9qhxluwzbf 10 hours ago rt @oliverbcampbell: when i was 11 going on 12 years old, the mississippi river flooded. the flood of 1993. july. i remember there bein… 11 hours ago unrelated to anything at the moment, but this is a good article: #rpg #tabletop emperorponders.blog/2020/02/04/try… 11 hours ago blog at wordpress.com. wpthemes. tish tosh tesh blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy