0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 letterssarah ruth batesdecember 19, 2019 to the host mother of the do-gooders letterssarah ruth batesdecember 19, 2019 letter to a stranger to the host mother of the do-gooders by sarah ruth bates i barely remember first meeting you. i rode to your house in a stranger’s car, had climbed in even though i couldn’t fully understand his whistling spanish. the car shuddered over rocks and potholes, vibration adding a bass line to the pop radio. i watched the earth flash past through a slat in the floor. at your house, the driver handed me off to you. i worked for a nonprofit that summer, and that might have been the hardest week. my job was to supervise six american volunteers. before they flew in, i visited the three communities they’d live in, and found host parents willing to put them up. this, my bosses told me, is what we don’t tell our volunteers’ parents: we only find host families two weeks before the kids show up. host parent: you. i had so many competing worries, i didn’t think past that. i just met you, with a script that felt impossibly presumptuous: “hello can you host a teenager this summer and can you also feed and house me tonight?” the enormity of the ask embarrassed me so much that i could barely voice it, in my halting classroom spanish, but you said yes. you fed me the first of many dinners at your table. two volunteers stayed in your town every other week—on the alternating weeks, we repaired trails in national parks—and you hosted a sweet, quiet boy. i visited for a night every week he stayed with you. we ate at your kitchen table: plantains and beans and rice and chicken and more. we swatted the flies that buzzed at every meal. the sink held piles of dishes, a small pellet of remaining soap on its lip. the window behind had vertical metal bars, spaced widely enough that birds could peck at food scraps on the dishes. someone had told me you’d once hosted a peace corps volunteer. i asked you about it. “es una experiencia linda,” you said—a beautiful experience, and i nodded agreement—but you hadn’t finished: “para el voluntario.” for the volunteer. you’d liked the volunteer who’d lived with you for two years. he’d enjoyed himself. you were glad. “i wasn’t prepared for the possibility that y might not follow x, that just because a person says they’re doing one thing, doesn’t mean they actually do that thing and not something else.” * one week, you greeted me with anxious eyes. i asked how things were going. you were having trouble feeding my volunteer, you said. he ate so much. i hadn’t expected this—the host family setup includes a meal plan, where volunteers eat meals at different people’s houses each day. my other volunteers had that setup, and it worked. the meal plan setup had a flaw, though: the host family’s supposed to organize it. i had to get to the next community the following day. i asked a young local guy to fill out another meal plan sheet with neighborhood families. he said he would. i left, with no idea if the fix would take. i hoped it would—thought it would—but i’d thought it would work the first time, too, when i left the sheet with you. back in the city, my fellow supervisors and i slept in bunk beds. we each had a top and a bottom bunk to ourselves—we slept on the bottom, and stored our stuff up top. i grabbed a book one day, and saw that insects had tunneled through it, riddling the pages with tiny holes. i inventoried my books: they’d eaten through each of them. i couldn’t find the bugs, just the paths they’d left behind. i started noticing wood dust they’d dropped on my pillow—i hadn’t seen it before, but then, i hadn’t known to look. weeks passed. the meal plan worked, sort of. you still bore more burden than i wanted you to have to. i’d asked my bosses for ideas, but they said the organization had a policy not to compensate host families. they didn’t want to cheapen that dynamic—the volunteers would help their communities through their projects. my teenagers painted some buildings by the soccer field. they were supposed to teach the local kids a few times a week, too. they told me they were. by that point, i’d hurt my ankle, but kept up my weekly hours-long hikes from one community to the next, because i was supposed to. i couldn’t tell the difference between shoulds and is-es anymore. i lived on elevator pitches as realities. i had to hike, they had to teach, you had to feed us. i continued, i believed. let us write to you! every week, get a letter from us in your inbox. email address write me thank you! * one night, after dinner, you showed me a catalogue. it was a general sort of catalogue, like if target had one, but with fewer options than the store offered. you looked at it with such burning. you flipped the glossy pages: white lace tablecloths, pastel pink children’s toys, everything lindo lindo lindo. i sipped tea you’d made. the naked bulb of your kitchen light cast a glare on the thin images. we sat at your table, by the windows with bars and no glass, under the patched-together corrugated roof. good enough, i’d thought before, because winter never settled scores here. you didn’t need insulation. looking at you looking at the catalogue, i saw how badly you wanted. i was supposedly “doing good.” in meetings, my colleagues and i dissected the most charged verb of community service, “helping,” but we still believed it applied to our work. and how, exactly, did i see myself “helping”? cultural exchange, we intoned self-importantly. community development. research has shown that people feel worse about the quality of their lives when they’re around people who have more material goods than they do. my volunteers and i spoke english, came from the land of shopping malls, and had plane tickets to return there. if you’re traveling to visit a less advantaged place, aren’t you always a missionary, even if you don’t say the name of your god? we didn’t have pamphlets, but we were pamphlets, with our suitcases, quick-drying clothes, photos of our parents’ houses in the suburbs. i’d pushed through my busy days, long dusty bus rides and longer hikes, struggles to speak spanish and injuries and illnesses, so flurried that i didn’t try to see the intentions behind the scripts of “my work.” then i sat with you, in your kitchen, drinking your tea. lindo lindo lindo. the peace corps volunteer’s experience, lindo. the catalogue i’d have tossed away as junk mail, the things in it everyone i knew would call “junk,” things you’d never get the money to buy, lindo. i knew theory, and the motions i was supposed to go through to enact it, but had no mechanism to make sure i’d actually do what i meant to. evals with my bosses graded my professionalism, but not my effectiveness—the factors i had control over, not the ones i didn’t. the factors i didn’t have control over—those landed on you. i wasn’t prepared for the possibility that y might not follow x, that just because a person says they’re doing one thing, doesn’t mean they actually do that thing and not something else. my good intentions could not stock your pantry. thank you for feeding me. i don’t work for them anymore. about the author sarah ruth bates is a writer based in tucson, arizona. her work has appeared or is forthcoming in the boston globe magazine, outside, wbur cognoscenti, and appalachia journal. she’s a first-year mfa candidate in nonfiction and a writing instructor at the university of arizona, and the managing editor of the university’s graduate student literary journal, sonora review. she previously studied medical ethics at harvard medical school and philosophy at middlebury college. you can find her here. header image by louis hansel. articles sarah rovang to the man named "praise god" sarah rovang “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” sarah rovang lavinia spalding fez to the shopkeeper in fez lavinia spalding fez “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” lavinia spalding fez sarah perry new york city, new york to the man i made into a stranger sarah perry new york city, new york “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” sarah perry new york city, new york ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel to the nun who locked eyes with me ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel sarah ruth bates to the host mother of the do-gooders sarah ruth bates my good intentions could not stock your pantry. sarah ruth bates kate essig miraflores, peru to the fenix who commanded authority kate essig miraflores, peru on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. kate essig miraflores, peru jim mattson seoul, south korea to the woman looking for the hospital jim mattson seoul, south korea you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. jim mattson seoul, south korea leora fridman berlin, germany to the dancer who touched my back leora fridman berlin, germany it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. leora fridman berlin, germany mathina calliope washington, dc to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros mathina calliope washington, dc latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. mathina calliope washington, dc alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras sarah ruth bates facebook0 twitter linkedin0 to the nun who locked eyes with me lettersruth knafo settonjanuary 09, 2020jerusalem, israel to the fenix who commanded authority letterskate essignovember 21, 2019miraflores, peru © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com