0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 letterskate essignovember 21, 2019miraflores, peru to the fenix who commanded authority letterskate essignovember 21, 2019miraflores, peru letter to a stranger to the fenix who commanded authority by kate essig you stood alone on a street corner in lima. or you would’ve been alone, if it wasn’t for us, talking loudly and walking slowly down the residential streets of lima’s miraflores neighborhood. it was april, my first evening in lima, and we were hot. my fiancé and i had left our long pants in brooklyn and were already sunburned by the time we saw you. “she’s a fenix,” our friend and host, pilii, explained—a member of an all-female police force tasked with patrolling lima’s streets. your tall dark boots and khakis made you look like an equestrian, if it wasn’t for the dark police vest you had slung across your chest. your organization, the “escuadron fenix,” was formed in the 1990s to help heal corruption that plagued the police force in peru. it was assumed by the administration who formed the squad in ‘98 that women would be less inclined to accept bribes from motorists, less likely to do favors for drivers than policeman on the force. while there hasn’t been solid data showing women accept roadside bribes less often than their male counterparts, it’s remained women’s work to direct traffic in peru—and the traffic, from what i’d already seen, was badly in need of directing. on a nearby commercial street painted traffic lines were treated more like charming suggestions than strict rules to be observed, and our ears still rang from blaring horns two blocks away. where we found you, though, there was no traffic to direct. we locked eyes. you stood quiet. now, i am no stranger to women in uniform (i went to catholic girl school for eight years), but i am unfamiliar with a uniform so distinctly female and commanding. your boots, high. your pants, snug. your hair, pulled in a bun so tight i could feel your headache. on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. it was teaching, in part, that brought me to you. i came to peru to visit our friend and to take the kind of spring break that i hoped might heal the months that came before it. first year teaching was hard, and i was tired of losing sleep, and losing weight, and losing patience, exhausted by the inexhaustible voice that said “you could be grading” each time i put down my pen. “i thought of your stoic prepossession and wondered why you were alone. i knew it was your job to patrol the streets, but the street we were on was empty. there was no needy motorist. no car accident in sight. what, fenix, were you doing?” it wasn’t the amount of work but the type that made it challenging. i could keep up with parent phone calls, and make-up work, and lesson plans, and revisions, and copies to make on copiers that work except for when you need them. it was harder to do the emotional work of being an adult to teenagers who need one, to learn how to care for students while not letting them off the hook. before each of my classes my stomach twisted like it was full of butterflies with wings made out of razors. in peru, though, i would get better. in peru, i’d eat ceviche. in peru, i’d wear shirts that weren’t covered in pen stains and read books (for fun!) on the beach. i’d return to school, one week later, a better teacher, a better person, and wearing an incan sweater, with a reserve of patience and presence that’d last me until the end of the year. that night in miraflores, we didn’t stop to speak with you. home held the promise of dinner so we kept walking, past a park with pink flowers and a statue of the madonna, by brick walls that still held heat from the quickly setting sun. it’d sunk by the time we arrived at home—happy, hungry, and sweating. still, i thought of your stoic prepossession and wondered why you were alone. i knew it was your job to patrol the streets, but the street we were on was empty. there was no needy motorist. no car accident in sight. what, fenix, were you doing? the next day we became those motorists, travelling to the mountains and to the coast and to a vineyard hours away, to chancay, and azpitia and punta hermosa beach. i looked for you en route each time, and asked “is she a fenix?” each time i saw a woman in tall boots. by the last day of our trip, we’d done all our break things. i’d eaten lomo saltado on a blanket while sipping cold chilcanos, watched waves off the pacific coast and took long, happy naps. and my classroom in brooklyn felt as far away as the clouds we watched above the ocean; my stack of ungraded essays as distant as those surfers down the shore. i read three books. i ate ceviche. i was well-rested, dammit, so why was i not ready to return? let us write to you! every week, get a letter from us in your inbox. email address write me thank you! i thought of you then, fenix, your moment of pisco-less peace—on the job, on a street corner, away from crashing cars. i do not want to speak for you or lend you a false meaning, but when i saw you i saw a woman unafraid of her power and unafraid to rest, two things that scared me equally for inverse, twisted, reasons. and i wondered what it would look like if i did that for myself, if i didn’t save up rehabilitating for a nine day sprint to save sanity, but took time to breath when the butterflies appeared, trusted my gut, and stopped moving. i wondered if the work of vacation is less important, less essential, than the kind of break you took, on a street corner, on the job, in the daily in between. you paused for a moment when the sun was setting in the company of pink flowers, before mounting your motorcycle and returning to the road. about the author kate essig is a writer, audio producer and teacher from st. louis, missouri. she's made radio for wnyc, public radio international, prx and st. louis public radio, and she's published personal essays for modern loss and on faith. you can find her on twitter and instagram. photographs by estacionvenus.blogspot.com articles sarah rovang to the man named "praise god" sarah rovang “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” sarah rovang lavinia spalding fez to the shopkeeper in fez lavinia spalding fez “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” lavinia spalding fez sarah perry new york city, new york to the man i made into a stranger sarah perry new york city, new york “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” sarah perry new york city, new york ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel to the nun who locked eyes with me ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home ruth knafo setton jerusalem, israel sarah ruth bates to the host mother of the do-gooders sarah ruth bates my good intentions could not stock your pantry. sarah ruth bates kate essig miraflores, peru to the fenix who commanded authority kate essig miraflores, peru on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. kate essig miraflores, peru jim mattson seoul, south korea to the woman looking for the hospital jim mattson seoul, south korea you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. jim mattson seoul, south korea leora fridman berlin, germany to the dancer who touched my back leora fridman berlin, germany it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. leora fridman berlin, germany mathina calliope washington, dc to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros mathina calliope washington, dc latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. mathina calliope washington, dc alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. alla gonopolsky bay islands, honduras kate essig facebook0 twitter linkedin0 to the host mother of the do-gooders letterssarah ruth batesdecember 19, 2019 to the woman looking for the hospital lettersjim mattsonnovember 07, 2019seoul, south korea © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com