about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: toddler clothes & shoes best baby sun hats in 2020 (boys, girls, and unisex) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer we'll help to protect your little one's head from those harmful uva rays with our pick of the best sunhats of 2017. read more » best walking shoes for babies and toddlers (2020 reviews) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer a quick parent guide to buying the best walking shoes for your baby or toddler. all you need to know including our round-up of the best (and most adorable.) read more » best kids backpacks 2020 (toddlers to teens) updated mar 9, 2020 neve spicer whether you are sending your little one off to school for the first time, or have a tween returning to middle school, a good backpack can make or break … read more » we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest