about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews category: toddler health the 9 best toddler nap mats to buy in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve bad nap = toddler meltdown = parent meltdown. avoid the cycle and ensure your little one sleeps well during the day. here are the best toddler nap mats... read more » how to wean a toddler (gently and effectively) updated nov 20, 2018 neve spicer never fear. weaning doesn’t have to be a nightmare. try this simple, battle-tested approach used successfully by many parents. read more » the ultimate guide to potty training updated nov 23, 2018 neve spicer quickly find the right potty training method for you and your little one. in this guide, you'll find three that are gentle and effective. read more » 7 of the best booster seats for the table (2020 reviews) updated feb 6, 2020 neve spicer looking for a pogo stick for a kid, teen, or adult? well, not all pogo sticks are equal. check out our quick guide and find the best pogo stick … read more » 5 gentle ways to raise an independent toddler updated nov 26, 2018 neve spicer independence can't be forced. it is a gift that is given intentionally and with care. here are 5 practical tips to help you nurture your toddler's independence. read more » best potty seats and chairs for toddlers in 2020 updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer potty training can be challenging, but – oh boy – does it produce a joyous reward… no more poopie diapers! there will be days when potty training is going to seem … read more » best baby and kids sunscreen of 2020 (safety without sticky) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer we are officially entering that time of year where we bid goodbye to overcast skies, chilly weather, and snow days. with better weather comes a growing desire to be … read more » best baby thermometers of 2020 (forehead, ear & rectal) updated jan 9, 2020 neve spicer thermometers are the unsung heroes of the parent’s toolkit. they spend most of their time locked away in the medical cupboard, only taking center stage when your kid gets … read more » we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest