got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos music minute featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal taylor swift! home › taylor swift › todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal taylor swift! it’s kim kardashian west vs taylor swift round three and todrick hall has just entered the ring, ladies and gentlemen! so much has already transpired just days after the songstress’ full phone call with kanye west over his 2016 song famous was leaked to the press over the weekend. swifties everywhere felt a sense of vindication for supporting tay’s claim kkw manipulated the first clip of their conversation years ago — but things took a turn on monday night when kim hopped online to claim the 30-year-old hitmaker is once again “lying” about everything. related: khloé kardashian shows support for kim in ongoing taylor swift feud the kuwtk star stated her case through several lengthy posts on her instagram story and twitter where she called the ongoing feud “embarrassing,” among other scathing critiques of her husband’s musical nemesis. those messages really struck a chord with singer-songwriter (and frequent taylor collaborator) todrick hall, who took to social media on tuesday to rip kim a new one!! we’re not kidding, guys. this is the drag of the century and definitely nsfw! hall wrote over screenshots of mrs. west’s original posts with a message which began: “i cannot stand this woman! kim kardashian posted these on her story and is still clearly missing the point. 1. taylor didn’t reignit [sic] anything, kris [jenner] probably leaked this footage her damn self. 2. after your ray j video and publicly documenting every crevice of your vagina…i highly doubt you’re embarrassed now to respond to this. 3. just apologize, you self absorbed entitled, stubborn little queef.” damn. from there, he went on to slam the semantics with taylor’s publicist, tree paine, and suggested the wests approached the entire situation poorly: “she was clearly uncomfortable with the situation & after you publicly embarrass someone twice on national television, i think these calls should be going through management or some legit form of professional contact. 1. no one would ever give permission without ever hearing the song. if they had time to shadily record all this footage, they had time to shoot over an email with the finished product for approval once the song was done #standard 2. they failed to mention they were going to have a life sized nude sized nude figure of taylor in the bed with kanye in the video. you want to make taylor and kim naked in the video but not himself, show those cakes kanye if you’re going to force the women in your video to be naked. double standard and just shady boots dot come!” (c) todrick hall/instagram story todrick had some more choice words, this time directed at yeezy himself! he pointed out the main difference between the feuding artists’ decision to record their conversation in the first place: “this comparison is just honestly mind boggling and low key iconic that she thinks this is even remotely the same thing. difference is, taylor had everyone featured in her documentary sign releases and here’s a crazy concept she told them that they were being filmed and recorded!” he continued to call out the reality tv star for appearing to “take the high road now” despite bullying his friend and her fanbase all these years. he added: “don’t know kim, only met her one and to be honest, she was kind. i’ll give her that. but this is not the example she should be setting for her children or her audience. to belittle what she’s done to my friend is disrespectful at this point. would it be soooo difficult for her to just say ‘i’m sorry taylor.'” (c) todrick hall/instagram story related: taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! the 34-year-old american idol breakout star also addressed kim’s denial that she edited the famous phone call clip when it was first released and took a shot at her appearance while he was at it! he penned: “i know this is a strange concept to understand but editing is altering or condensing something from its original state. so you did indeed edit the footage miss thing. kind of a concept you should be very well acquainted & familiar with as you’ve done it not only to this footage but your butt, your face, your hair, the list goes on.” (c) todrick hall/instagram story and finally, he concluded the epic rant with the actual definition of “edited” and put a spin on the kim tweet tree responded to: (c) todrick hall/instagram story whoa.you doing alright after reading all of this, perezcious readers? we told you this wasn’t pretty! we can’t possibly imagine kim actually responding to all of that since she’s apparently above the drama now. for what it’s worth, he could’ve done all of this without objectifying her appearance, too. but wow, todrick really went there!! reactions?? share them with us in the comments section (below)! [image via wenn/avalon] related posts kim kardashian asks for kid-friendly quarantine tips — but gets epicly trolled by taylor swift fans taylor swift & ariana grande donate big to help their financially-strapped fans after coronavirus shutdowns! taylor swift & joe alwyn ‘definitely’ want to get married: he’s her ‘safe constant’ trying cbd cotton candy for the first time! plus, celeb craziness! lady gaga, dua lipa, kim kardashian & taylor swift! and more! |perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 24, 2020 10:32am pdt share this categories celebrity feuds controversy instagram kanye west kim kardashian music minute taylor swift view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy