skip to content college info geek tom and martin discuss working from home (ep. 291) menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search tom and martin discuss working from home (ep. 291) martin boehme last updated march 23, 2020 c.i.g. is supported in part by its readers. if you buy through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission. read more here. with all the social distancing and remote working suddenly going on, we decided to talk a bit about how we’ve been working from home for so long. there are quite a few things about working from home that can go wrong, leaving you bad at work, bad at free time, and stressed all around. so here are a few ideas about how to avoid the negatives of working from home so you can embrace the positives. things mentioned in this episode: this week’s episode is sponsored by: skillshare: with thousands of courses in a wide range of different skills, skillshare can help you take things to the next level. if you’re one of the first 500 to use this link, you can also get started with 2 free months of unlimited learning (including thomas’ new habit-building class!) at skillshare.com/geek. brilliant: accelerate your learning in math, science, and computer science. start learning for free at brilliant.org/collegeinfogeek — and if you’re one of the first 200 people to use this link, you’ll also get 20% off your subscription. other things we mentioned in this episode: roam research how to create a study space in your room thomas’ habit-building course on skillshare brain.fm thomas’ ultimate study music playlist on youtube beeminder focusmate want more cool stuff? you can find all sorts of great tools at my resources page. timestamps: 0:12:42 – creating a dedicated workspace when you don’t have another room 0:22:50 – sponsor: brilliant (learning problem-solving skills) 0:26:02 – sponsor: skillshare (learning new skills) 0:28:27 – getting a good pair of headphones 0:40:41 – holding yourself accountable to someone 0:53:55 – exercising at home 1:02:32 – conclusion if you enjoyed this episode, subscribe to the podcast on itunes! it’s easy, you’ll get new episodes automatically, and it also helps the show gain exposure 🙂 you can also leave a review! here’s an image for sharing this episode on social media: want to earn better grades? did you find this article useful? over 220,000 awesome students are learning how to dominate their classes, get more done, and land the jobs they want — and you should too. join in, and i'll also send you a free copy of my book on earning better grades! get the book free read these next… 10 ways to improve your social skills and be more outgoing socializing can be a struggle, especially if you're an introvert. here are 10 techniques you can use to make socializing easier. how to remember anyone’s name (even if you’re bad with names) are you bad at remembering names? with practice, it's possible to change that. here are 5 techniques to help you remember anyone's name. popular posts the ultimate guide to building a personal website how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) how to study for any test or exam (even if you feel unmotivated) more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.