the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop sports news in brief tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports olympic dressage rider enraged after spending past 4 years jauntily trotting around on horse for nothing tuesday 11:33am sports tom brady: ‘i want to thank all the insufferable new england fans for giving me a reason to get the hell out of here’ 3/17/20 11:21am more from g/o media read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on u.n. names finland happiest country for third year in a row read on china will lift lockdown on wuhan april 8th subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe yesterday 9:30am • see more: tom brady tom bradynfl footballfootballnewsvol 56 issue 12 tampa bay—skeptically looking down at the red jersey laying on the floor beside empty bottles of probiotics, a bleary-eyed tom brady woke up from a week-long long kombucha bender thursday to discover that he signed with the tampa bay buccaneers. “ugh, the last thing i remember was taking that shot of ginger lemon tea,” said brady, vaguely recalling a conversation about his impending free agency with a juice bar employee who had tried to cut him off after his 8th cold-pressed bottle of pomegranate cleanse kombucha. “how did i get here? and why do i have all these pictures of bruce arians on my phone? shit, i decide to cut loose for one week and look at what happens. i’m never breaking pliability again.” at press time, brady was working up the courage to call his wife, gisele bündchen, and tell her that he had sold their home. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion thousands of formerly endangered white rhinos flood city streets mere days after humans quarantined indoors department of interior announces birds will continue going about regular bird activities during pandemic 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running study finds female mammals live longer than males share tweet