/ submit / search / store / menu blog : show me the posts forums : but read the community guidelines shop : a directory of wonderful products about us : editors, contributors and staff contact us : get satisfaction advertise here : thank you for not blocking ours privacy policy : what we do with data you generate terms of service : what you agree to follow us twitter / facebook / rss ruben bolling / 11:27 am fri free book for kids- the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard to do far less than my part in helping families in quarantine/home isolation, i'm offering a free download of the first book in my book series for kids, the emu club adventures: alien invasion in my backyard, for anyone who wants it. free. no charge. info for downloading the pdf of the book is at this link. the book was first released in 2015, and here are a few endorsements: "ruben bolling is one of my cartooning heroes, and the emu club adventures is seriously, mysteriously funny!" - jeff kinney, diary of a wimpy kid "there's no mystery—the emu club is a hit! this is a fun, funny adventure that kids will love to read." —lincoln peirce, big nate "the emu club inhabits exactly the world i always hoped to live in when i was 12, when the answer to questions like 'where did i put my toy' led inevitably to alien conspiracies and secret underground tunnels. a book for the curious and adventurous!" - cory doctorow i hope your kids have some fun with it. maybe you will too. in a week, i'm going to provide a link to download the second book in the series, ghostly thief of time. also for free. read the rest share / tweet / comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 5:12 am wed, mar 25, 2020 super-fun-pak comix, feat. bud n' fran, walter's widgets, and more tom the dancing bug, in which super-fun-pak comix features "sully's place," "nutso kaputo" and more share / tweet / 18 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 5:00 am wed, mar 18, 2020 super-fun-pak comix, feat. secret origins of a species, and more! tom the dancing bug, in which various animal-themed super-fun-pak comix are offered for your enjoyment share / tweet / 15 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 5:01 am tue, mar 10, 2020 trump's instructions for your survival of the coronavirus tom the dancing bug, in which donald j. trump gives you instructions for how you can beat the coronavirus, the trump way. share / tweet / 29 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 6:00 am wed, mar 4, 2020 super medical force detects a potentially catastrophic medical anomaly tom the dancing bug, in which super medical force must track down a catastrophically dangerous illness to save the u.s., and even the world! share / tweet / 11 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 4:00 am wed, feb 26, 2020 the trump federal employment questionnaire tom the dancing bug, in which donald j. trump asks a few questions of people who would like to continue working in his(tm) federal government. share / tweet / 20 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 4:08 am wed, feb 19, 2020 trump shoots man on fifth ave. tom the dancing bug, in which president trump shoots a man on fifth ave. and the media urgently reports both the democratic and republican perspectives share / tweet / 35 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 12:01 am wed, feb 12, 2020 a calvinesque and hobbesian look at impeachment aquittal tom the dancing bug, in which the spunky little boy president donald gets away with being a very bad boy, and his imaginary publicist john helps him plot revenge and much more authoritarian naughtiness. share / tweet / 20 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 4:59 am wed, feb 5, 2020 super-fun-pak comix, feat. the floating head of irrelevant and wrong predictions, and more! tom the dancing bug, in which super-fun-pak comix features footprints in the sand, dinkle the unlovable loser, celebvolution, and more! share / tweet / 6 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 3:50 am tue, jan 28, 2020 the republican jury room: 53 angry men tom the dancing bug, in which the impeachment trial's republican jury room explodes with 53 angry men share / tweet / 42 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 4:48 am wed, jan 22, 2020 the kiev conspiracy: "how high does this go?" tom the dancing bug, in which donald trump finds himself up against a secret conspiracy that may go up to the highest echelons of the united states government! share / tweet / 9 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 3:30 am wed, jan 15, 2020 uncle trump wants you tom the dancing bug, in which you are urged to do your patriotic duty to the military whims of uncle trump share / tweet / 20 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 4:50 am wed, jan 8, 2020 super-fun-pak comix, feat. "rex's new year," "teen yoda," edward bear, and more! tom the dancing bug, in which super-fun-pak comix does feature "mcgruff the crime dog," "guy walks into a bar," and more other "hilarious comix" share / tweet / 5 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 6:00 am wed, jan 1, 2020 god-man scorned! tom the dancing bug, in which billy billings learns that his pal god-man is a jealous god-man. share / tweet / comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 5:45 am wed, dec 25, 2019 bob figures it out tom the dancing bug, in which bob figures out how to escape from terrorists share / tweet / 14 comments tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 3:51 am wed, dec 18, 2019 a calvinesque and hobbesian look at donald's many imaginary friends tom the dancing bug, in which the plucky little boy president donald checks in on his many, many imaginary friends. share / tweet / 16 comments comics / tom the dancing bug ruben bolling / 5:00 am wed, dec 11, 2019 the trump historical players present: the drafting of the u.s. constitution tom the dancing bug, in which the donald j. trump historical players present the true story of the drafting of the u.s. constitution! share / tweet / 4 comments comics / tom the dancing bug more posts read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support