home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads what it takes to grow up, what it means to have grown toni morrison on the power of art and the writer’s singular service to humanity the greatest commencement addresses of all time labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks toni morrison on how to be your own story and reap the rewards of adulthood in a culture that fetishizes youth “true adulthood… is a difficult beauty, an intensely hard won glory, which commercial forces and cultural vapidity should not be permitted to deprive you of.” by maria popova in may of 2004, a decade after receiving the nobel prize for her “visionary force and poetic import” and shortly after collaborating with her son on a little-known and lovely children’s book, toni morrison was invited to wellesley college to deliver what is both among the greatest commencement addresses of all time and a courageous counterpoint to the entire genre — morrison defies every graduation cliché with wisdom at once thoroughly grounding and immensely elevating, striking that difficult but crucial balance of critical thinking and hope. her extraordinary speech, included in the graduation compendium take this advice (public library), takes the art of the commencement address to the level of masterpiece — an art of taking what is and has always been true, rotating it 360 degrees with tremendous love and intellectual elegance, and coming back full-circle to the old truth that feels, suddenly, new and fresh and invigorating. morrison begins with a necessary nod to educators — a profession with a tryingly high risk of burnout: i would remind the faculty and the administration of what each knows: that the work they do takes second place to nothing, nothing at all, and that theirs is a first order profession. she then turns to one of the tritest, if truest, assertions of the commencement address genre — the idea that the future is the graduates’ for the taking: the fact is it is not yours for the taking. and it is not whatever you make of it. the future is also what other people make of it, how other people will participate in it and impinge on your experience of it. but i’m not going to talk anymore about the future because i’m hesitant to describe or predict because i’m not even certain that it exists. that is to say, i’m not certain that somehow, perhaps, a burgeoning ménage à trois of political interests, corporate interests and military interests will not prevail and literally annihilate an inhabitable, humane future. because i don’t think we can any longer rely on separation of powers, free speech, religious tolerance or unchallengeable civil liberties as a matter of course. that is, not while finite humans in the flux of time make decisions of infinite damage. not while finite humans make infinite claims of virtue and unassailable power that are beyond their competence, if not their reach. illustration by giselle potter from ‘the big box’ by toni and slade morrison. click image for more. although she argues that the past is rife with values “worthy of reverence and transmission” — this, after all, is a foundational premise here on brain pickings — morrison considers the insufficiency of blindly turning to the past in remedying the present: the past is already in debt to the mismanaged present. and besides, contrary to what you may have heard or learned, the past is not done and it is not over, it’s still in process, which is another way of saying that when it’s critiqued, analyzed, it yields new information about itself. the past is already changing as it is being reexamined, as it is being listened to for deeper resonances. actually it can be more liberating than any imagined future if you are willing to identify its evasions, its distortions, its lies, and are willing to unleash its secrets. chief among these lies and distortions are the ideas our culture purveys about happiness. in a sentiment that calls to mind ursula k. le guin’s devastatingly beautiful meditation on aging, morrison issues an admonition to graduates, tucked into which is urgent wisdom for any breathing, dreaming human being in our world today: i’m sure you have been told that this is the best time of your life. it may be. but if it’s true that this is the best time of your life, if you have already lived or are now living at this age the best years, or if the next few turn out to be the best, then you have my condolences. because you’ll want to remain here, stuck in these so-called best years, never maturing, wanting only to look, to feel and be the adolescent that whole industries are devoted to forcing you to remain. one more flawless article of clothing, one more elaborate toy, the truly perfect diet, the harmless but necessary drug, the almost final elective surgery, the ultimate cosmetic-all designed to maintain hunger for stasis. while children are being eroticized into adults, adults are being exoticized into eternal juvenilia. i know that happiness has been the real, if covert, target of your labors here, your choices of companions, of the profession that you will enter. you deserve it and i want you to gain it, everybody should. but if that’s all you have on your mind, then you do have my sympathy, and if these are indeed the best years of your life, you do have my condolences because there is nothing, believe me, more satisfying, more gratifying than true adulthood. the adulthood that is the span of life before you. the process of becoming one is not inevitable. its achievement is a difficult beauty, an intensely hard won glory, which commercial forces and cultural vapidity should not be permitted to deprive you of. illustration by pascal lemaitre from ‘the book of mean people’ by toni and slade morrison. click image for more. with a wistful eye to the damage her own generation has done in instilling these illusory ideals of commodified happiness, morrison urges the next generation: you don’t have to accept those media labels. you need not settle for any defining category. you don’t have to be merely a taxpayer or a red state or a blue state or a consumer or a minority or a majority. to couple this rejection of old paradigms with a constructive reimagining of new and better ones, morrison argues, requires learning to own your story — a notion nowhere more beautifully articulated than in her lucid and luminous closing words: you are your own stories and therefore free to imagine and experience what it means to be human without wealth. what it feels like to be human without domination over others, without reckless arrogance, without fear of others unlike you, without rotating, rehearsing and reinventing the hatreds you learned in the sandbox. and although you don’t have complete control over the narrative (no author does, i can tell you), you could nevertheless create it. although you will never fully know or successfully manipulate the characters who surface or disrupt your plot, you can respect the ones who do by paying them close attention and doing them justice. the theme you choose may change or simply elude you, but being your own story means you can always choose the tone. it also means that you can invent the language to say who you are and what you mean. but then, i am a teller of stories and therefore an optimist, a believer in the ethical bend of the human heart, a believer in the mind’s disgust with fraud and its appetite for truth, a believer in the ferocity of beauty. so, from my point of view, which is that of a storyteller, i see your life as already artful, waiting, just waiting and ready for you to make it art. take this advice includes thirty-five more excellent addresses, including ones by meryl streep, seamus heaney, and nora ephron. not in the book but well worth devouring are joseph brodsky’s six rules for winning at the game of life (university of michigan, 1988), george saunders on the power of kindness (syracuse university, 2013), teresita fernandez on what it really means to be an artist (virginia commonwealth university, 2013), debbie millman on courage and the creative life (san jose state university, 2013), kurt vonnegut on boredom, belonging, and our human responsibility (fredonia college, 1978), bill watterson on creative integrity (kenyon college, 1990), patti smith on learning to count on yourself (pratt university, 2010), john waters on creative rebellion (risd, 2015), and david foster wallace’s legendary this is water (kenyon college, 2005). donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published july 21, 2015 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2015/07/21/toni-morrison-wellesley-commencement/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under bookscommencementculturephilosophystorytellingtoni morrison view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.