your mom recommends: no, it’s the same size on the inside there’s got to be a better way the cycle continues: 3d modeling edition gaming in the age of coronavirus temporary set-ups and wombot in the wild re-doing the computer room, pt ii kitbash3d for cool cinematographic and video game models our opinions matter: consumers and corporate bickering weekend update, 2020 leap day edition wombot: feature full! skip to content quality posts since 1998 march 27, 2020 toggle navigation skip to content home gaming motion graphics and video development all posts search for: search editorial too much scopique september 6, 2019 editorial scopique september 6, 2019 i’m going to riff this one on the back of a comment made by @stargrace on my previous post, so thanks, stargrace, for the writing prompt! video games might be one of the most unique forms of entertainment in the most ironic way. for a medium that requires a certain level of resources, talent, and intelligence, there is a metric shit-ton of product out there. making games has become more accessible than ever before, and like a lot of creative mediums when the barrier to entry is low enough, people find the desire and opportunity to make the leap from consumer to producer. as a consumer, this sounds like paradise. big video game seems to be so reliant on tsunamis of cash that they can’t do anything but pump out crowd-pleasing franchise entries on a schedule you could set your watch by. meanwhile, those who are more eclectic in their tastes can just fire up an unreal editor or a unity or even a web-based game engine and bang out something that, seemingly counter to the laws of economics, finds a following in the gaming community. as a gamer, there is absolutely no excuse for not finding something out there that appeals to you. in fact, there might be too many games that appeal to you. in this age of excess, you might not think this is a problem. being able to turn on a dime at the drop of a hat (and other fun sayings) means that life is good, right? can you imagine how hard it would be if were had nothing, or just enough to keep us from teetering over the edge into that void of existential ennui? i can, because i, like many of my contemporaries, lived through that period when video games were new and weren’t quite so ubiquitous. i remember the first game that i bought myself with my own job-earned money when i was living on my own (kinda, it was in college) was master of magic, and i bought it at an electronics boutique at the newington mall in newington, nh. i played the hell out of that game in part because it was good, but mainly because i didn’t have anything else to segue into. i couldn’t afford to blow money on games as i do now, and aside from the fact that i had other responsibilities, i simply didn’t have a lot of opportunities to run roughshod over the spectrum of video game offerings. i was basically forced to focus on that one game for as long as possible or go do something totally unrelated. having too many games means i never have to commit to anything that annoys me even a little bit. remember in the last post how i said i quit and uninstalled gears of war 5 after dying once? i’ve done that with a lot of games (died, and uninstalled as a result) simply because i knew i didn’t have to really try in 2019 the way i did back in 1994 because while in 1994 it was “one more try or go study”, in 2019 it’s “fuck this shit i’m gonna find something in my voluminous backlog or just buy something else”. i think the glut of product on the market means that we can — and do — allow for even minor annoyances to color our view on a specific title. we no longer have to “stick it out” until things get better — hi, anthem! — because we have a lifetime of games in our library and several lifetimes worth of games perpetually on the horizon. people can feel far less charitable about how they talk about these games as well when mentally cutting ties with them has absolutely no bearing on our ability to stay buried neck-deep in the hobby. it would be one thing to just walk away, but i believe there’s a contingent of people out there who are happy to use this glut of inventory against the games industry as a way of saying “agree to our demands or we’ll just go play something else!” as someone who did live through a period where we had to take what we were given — and thankfully what we were given somehow still managed to appeal to us — i like having not just choices but weird and wonderful choices, but i don’t like the way that it insinuates that frustration-busting safety net. i honestly may be in a minority among people i know here because i can point in any direction and offer examples of friends who do stick with one or even a few games for long periods of time, which effectively neutralizes my entire argument here. i wish i were like that or were more like that. in some ways, this is why i am so gung-ho for star citizen. it seems to be the one game that i think about a lot and that i return to again and again, despite the vagueness of the entire project. i want it to succeed because i find that i am able to stick with it and not be distracted from it. i must tell someone! click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) editorial scopique related posts our opinions matter: consumers and corporate bickering stories of days gone by to some of the games i’ve loved before cancel culture in tv & streaming creativity post navigation previous previous post: devil, thy name is marketing next next post: changing lanes 3 comments pete s september 6, 2019 - 10:13 am so if this comment goes through, we can assume the brave browser is what is causing my comments to get eaten (i’m back on chrome now). so riffing off what you said, i think this is the one downside to subscription services, too. game pass, humble monthly, the new uplay+…. even though these services aren’t free they “feel” free at the moment you decide to try a game since you paid days or weeks or months ago for the service. and i think that makes games feel even more disposable. like if you’d just spent $60 for gears 5, i imagine you might have thought a little more about respawning after that death. maybe not enough more to do it, but at least you’d maybe think “well i spent $60 maybe i should give it another try” or maybe that’s just me. i still boot up fallout 76 every once in a while, trying to get some value out of that $60 i spent last november (it hasn’t happened yet). 🙂 reply scopique september 6, 2019 - 10:25 am it is not just you! i had this discussion last night in regards to uplay+. they want the ongoing revenue stream that comes with a subscription, and ultimately i think it devalues the games that are being offered. they become just carrots to get people to subscribe. same with the giveaways on humble or fanatical or epic. i collect them, but i never play them. then again, i might be so deep in the mindset that i would — and have — spend $60 on a game, play it for an hour or two, and never return to it. so aside from being tempted by too many games, i also need to whip my own ass into shape and be more fiscally responsible (which i feel that i have been doing over the past few months, believe it or not!) then again again, owning a game means it never really goes away — usually — so $60 now means in a year or two, i might give it another shot. it’s still subject to the same vague rules of abandonment as were in effect when i bought the game, but it’s nice when i can return to a game later on. reply dragonchasers » an embarrassment of riches september 6, 2019 - 10:54 am […] stole my title from @scopique‘s tweet promoting his latest blog post. he sees having too many games on the market as a potential problem, and i kind of agree with him. […] reply sound off! cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. © copyright 2017 - scopique's by themepacific