authority seo 2.0 blog about tools contact 🛠 my favorite tools wpx hosting – really fast web hosting. rankxl is hosted on wpx. bluehost hosting – cheaper web hosting for people just starting out. clicky analytics – my favorite web analytics tool i install on all my sites and check everyday. convertkit – the best email marketing tool. mangools – a complete set of seo tools at a much lower price. get mangools if you don’t want to spend $100/month for other seo tools. amalinks pro – do you build amazon affiliate sites? this tool improves conversions, and makes it way easier to build out sites faster, prettier, and better. sumo – what i use to create pretty forms that collect email subscribers. blogger list – where i’m hanging out daily online. come join me. gumroad and easy digital downloads – for selling and delivering digital products. teachable – for creating online courses. saves me weeks of time when building new courses. ahrefs and moz – for seo and keyword research. semrush – shows you how much search traffic a site gets, what keywords they rank for, and how much traffic each keyword sends them. also shows you a list of all competitors. buzzsumo – shows you the most popular blog posts of any site/topic. similarweb – i use the free version to quickly get estimates of how much traffic a site gets. stencil – for creating graphics. this tool kind of changed the game for me design wise. it lets me create really professional looking logos, blog graphics, etc. i’ve tried other tools, but stencil is the easiest to use and gives me the best results. main thing i love this tool for is creating logos. for example, the rankxl logo was created using this tool, and also for all my other sites too. unsplash – 100% free photos, can use all of them with no attribution or worrying about copyright. pixelmator – basically a cheaper, easier to use version of photoshop. if you want something that’s completely free and web-based, try pixlr. mythemeshop – really simple and fast wordpress themes. zero to 100k with seo a free 5-part seo email course that will show you step-by-step how to grow traffic from zero to 100,000 visitors per month (with search). sign me up © 2019 rankxl. all rights reserved. | contact | twitter zero to 100k with seo free 5-part mini-course. enter your email to get lesson #1. email* send me the first lesson enter your email below to get the zero to 100k mini-course email* send me the first lesson