home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » tool tutorials how to make a long clamp with shorter clamps february 9, 2018 brittany bailey 16 comments how to make a long clamp with shorter clamps when you are trying to outfit your workshop with equipment it can be tempting to skip purchasing more expensive long clamps. after all, how often do you really need to clamp something longer than 12 - 18"? luckily, i'm here to justify … [read more...] build it, tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials, toolbox top 10 power tools every diyer needs november 17, 2017 brittany bailey 4 comments top 10 power tools every diyer needs time and time again i've been asked what my desert island tool would be. but honestly i have a hard time narrowing my answer down to just one tool. instead i decided to make a list of the top 10 power tools that every diyer needs in their … [read more...] tool tutorials, toolbox table saw stand and collapsible out feed work table november 13, 2017 brittany bailey 2 comments diy table saw stand and collapsible out feed work table today i want to share with you my new workshop configuration that has a diy table saw stand and a collapsible out feed (or work) table. i've struggled for years to find a workbench that meets my need to spread out while … [read more...] build it, tool tutorials, toolbox install cabinet handles the easy way may 15, 2017 brittany bailey 7 comments after installing my fair share of cabinet knobs and handles over the years, i've made my own templates out of cardboard or scrap wood. but, after trying this new gadget, i can honestly say this is how you too can install cabinet handles the easy way. i was given the kreg … [read more...] cabinet, fix it, home & auto maintenance, home maintenance, tool tutorials table saw safety guidelines by the sawdust maker october 16, 2015 brittany bailey 3 comments i'm really excited to introduce this rockstar diyer today. nick is an extremely talented woodworker who is as passionate about his projects as he is his tools. nick is the lead over at the sawdust maker. you will learn a variety of woodworking tips and tricks on his blog, so be … [read more...] power tools, safety gear, tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials, toolbox worx hedge trimmer review april 20, 2015 brittany bailey 6 comments we have a very wooded and heavily landscaped lot with lots of mature bushes. some of the bushes were starting to achieve monster proportions. do you see the resemblance? this is why i needed a bad boy hedge trimmer on my side. worx sent me the 56v maxlithium cordless 24" … [read more...] landscaping, power tools, product review, tool tutorials chalkboard memo board – the time i made a 4th grade teacher use a power tool august 8, 2014 brittany bailey 22 comments before the end of the school year a really good friend of mine asked if i would give a talk in her daughter's class about what i do for a living. i hemmed and hawed because i rarely have the free time. but, the main reason i was hesitant was because i didn't know how to talk to … [read more...] accessories, arts and craft, build it, chalkboard paint, crafts, decor, diy, home decor, home office, kids art, lowe's creative idea, moulding, nailgun, tool tutorials, tutorial building a diy marble toss game with dremel fortiflex august 4, 2014 brittany bailey 8 comments the summer is dragging on and the kids don't have any summer camps for the next few weeks. that means: 1) i need to find a way to keep the kids entertained. 2) i need to keep them from pushing me over the brink of insanity. 3) i need to keep them from pushing each other off a … [read more...] arts and craft, build it, crafts, dremel, game, jigsaw, kids art, tool tutorials, tutorial how to trim & install closet doors {dremel ultra-saw review} june 23, 2014 brittany bailey 6 comments i have a friend named holly. she and i live in the same neighborhood and we help each other out with diy projects. last week she asked me to help her come up with a solution to hide her dirty laundry. holly and i were trying to figure out how to replace her sad laundry … [read more...] door, door hardware, fix it, home & auto maintenance, laundry room, repair, tool tutorials, toolbox, tutorial ryobi battery powered vs. campbell hausfeld pneumatic finish nailer comparison january 27, 2014 brittany bailey 10 comments a finish nailer is a great tool to have in your workshop. it's great for small projects, installing moulding, wall planking and more. after using both types of finish nailers for many projects, i wanted to break down the pros and cons of each. i was able to score this … [read more...] diy tools, nailgun, product review, tool tutorials, toolbox xtend + climb telescoping ladder review january 24, 2014 brittany bailey 11 comments a few months ago i got an email asking me if i wanted to test an xtend + climb telescoping ladder. i said i'd be happy to try it, but i couldn't promise i'd blog about it. i try lots of products, but only the ones i love get mentioned on the blog. the litmus test is if i would … [read more...] accessories, diy tools, ladder, product review, tool tutorials, toolbox how to solder metals together – tool tutorial friday september 28, 2012 brittany bailey 13 comments wheee, it's another episode of tool tutorial friday! do y'all miss ttf? i do too, but this handy gal only has so many tools in her toolbox. i added a new one a few weeks ago, a soldering iron. when i was in college, i took a stained glass elective (one of the … [read more...] copper lamp, diy, diy tools, do it yourself, electrical, fix it, light fixture, tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials, tutorial how to salvage wood from shipping pallets september 21, 2012 brittany bailey 327 comments pallet upcycling is all the rage today. but, if you've ever tried to actually remove wood planks from a pallet, you know that it is not an easy task. the nails that are used are typically spiral nails and are designed to really grip that wood. and if that's not enough, they … [read more...] circular saw, demolition, diy, diy tools, dremel, giveaway, power tools, product review, tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials, toolbox are you woman enough to handle my power tools? – plywood sign tutorial june 22, 2012 brittany bailey 13 comments there is a joke on our street that pretty handsome guy isn't allowed to touch my power tools. okay, it isn't really a joke, it's a fact. he knows he is not allowed to use them without me around (smart guy.) ;-) before the woman's day shoot i decided at the last minute that i … [read more...] build it, do it yourself, jigsaw, sander, tool tutorials tool tutorial friday – using a dremel trio january 20, 2012 brittany bailey 9 comments today we'll be learning about the dremel trio! this smaller power tool fits comfortably in your hand. the tool is a cross between a jigsaw, router, and regular dremel. it has a rotating bit that cuts into drywall, wood, plastic, steel and alumimum (with the appropriate bit). … [read more...] tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials tool tutorial friday – how to use a caulk gun january 13, 2012 brittany bailey 31 comments you know the old saying, "no question is a dumb question." well, i have to say that about this tutorial, "no tutorial is a dumb tutorial." i realize that a caulk gun isn't a big scary power tool, and yet i still think learning how to use a caulk gun is a very valuable skill … [read more...] caulking, tool tutorial friday video, tool tutorials, toolbox, tutorial, video 1 2 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok