home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more inside my toolbox resources to make your business and personal life hum. tools give you leverage. leverage gives you power. browse below starting at $2.75 a month get started with bluehost blog with bluehost are you a blogger looking to go pro? self-hosting your blog is the next step to expanding your influence! i highly recommend using bluehost for your hosting needs. they provide an easy setup, responsive support, premium-level features, and incredible prices—like $2.75 a month. (that’s basically just a latte. you can skip a latte every 30 days, right?) if you’ve got a small to medium-sized blog, bluehost is the perfect fit as you expand into the professional blogging sphere. in fact, you can have special savings for being part of my community. (for the record, i’m an affiliate with bluehost, but i’d recommend them even if i wasn’t. their services are truly worth it.) filter ∨ view all blogging tools computer accessories design tools podcasting tools social media tools software tools speaking tools writing tools my toolbox my products recommended books adobe audition adobe this is the audio editing software i use. it is expensive and probably overkill. there are free or cheaper alternatives available. i bought it because cliff ravenscraft recommended it and has some good tutorials about it. it is super-easy to use, but i feel i am only tapping five percent of its capabilities. learn more buffer buffer this is one of those ideas that is so simple and so elegant, you slap yourself on the forehead and say, “of course!” you add tweets to your buffer whenever you want. it then spreads them out during the day according to a schedule you pre-determine, so it doesn’t overwhelm your followers. learn more google analytics google this is the gold standard when it comes to analytics. if you want to track your unique visitors, page views, bounce rate, and a host of other metrics, you need to sign up for a free account and then follow the directions for installing it on your blog. i wish i had set this up from the day i started blogging. it is invaluable. learn more keyspan easy presenter keyspan this is the remote slide control unit i use when i speak publicly. yes, i know i can use my iphone for this, but the keyspan is a third of the size of a phone. i can fit it in the palm of my hand, and no one knows it’s even there. it turns me into a magician! learn more photoshop adobe as i mentioned elsewhere, i use keynote for most of my graphic design needs. however, for those really difficult jobs, i still use photoshop. to be honest, i am not a big fan. i find the interface non-intuitive and clunky. but for raw power, i haven’t found anything that comes close. photo shop does anything—if i can just figure out how to do it. learn more sermonscribe ginger schell ginger schell does all the transcriptions for my shows. she does a masterful job. she is a little more expensive than other services, but english is her first language, and she pays attention to the details. when you want it done right, she is the one to call. learn more akismet automattic this is the plugin i use to control comment spam. even though i receive more than 500 comments a day, i get very little spam. akismet blocks almost all it, so it never sees the light of day. this creates less work for you and less friction for your readers. (for example, you don’t have to require them to register to leave a comment.) learn more disqus disqus this is the commenting platform i use. it is used by thousands of large sites and has become the de facto standard on professional blogs. it is super-easy for your readers and allows them to manage comments across many sites without having to sign in every time. it is also very useful to you as a blogger. if you are going to allow comments, this is the software i recommend. learn more istock getty images if you want your posts to get noticed, you need to use photos. they pull people into the content. yes, you can get free ones at places like flickr.com, but personally, i can’t afford the time. istock is one of the largest online stock photo databases. it is owned by getty images, the largest photo library in the world. learn more mailchimp mailchimp as any internet marketer will tell you, nothing is more important than building your own e-mail list. i use mailchimp to manage mine. it has a super easy-to-use interface, great analytics, and is 100 percent reliable. other people prefer aweber. i don’t think you can go wrong with either one. learn more powerpress blubrry this is the wordpress plugin i use to embed my podcast on my blog. it uses a simple, elegant interface and provides a very nice audio player, so your listeners can simply click “play” to listen to your show. learn more slatego mini iskelter this is the mobile lap desk that i use. it is simple, beautiful, and light. it is made of a single sheet of bamboo. it effectively dissipates the heat coming from my laptop. it is also small enough to travel with and weighs only 20 oz. learn more boxshot boxshot this is the software i use to create 3d images of books. it is an amazing, sophisticated piece of software that makes it simple to create gorgeous cover images for books and e-books. you can even use it to create images of notebooks, software boxes, and many other objects. learn more feedburner google some people, particularly those who are more tech-savvy, will prefer to subscribe to your blog via rss. i use feedburner to manage my rss feed. it is a free service owned by google. it is easy to set up. it has an e-mail module too, but i still prefer using mailchimp for that (see below) learn more keynote apple this is the software package that single-handedly converted me from pc to mac. if you are not familiar with it, it is apple’s alternative to powerpoint. it is easy-to-use and produces amazing, beautiful slides. the graphic capabilities are so robust that i usually use it in place of photoshop for designing almost everything. learn more omnioutliner omnigroup this is where every speech starts for me. it is easier to use than a word processor, allowing me to arrange and rearrange all the elements of my speech, creating a thorough outline of my presentation. i also notate the slide numbers in a column to the right of the outline. here’s an example of my platform speech. learn more scribe copyblogger media this is a premium plugin i use to optimize my wordpress posts. it analyses each post, then assigns it a percentage grade (with 100% being a perfect score). best of all, it suggests how to improve the score by offering different key words and metadata. it was developed by the very smart folks at copyblogger. learn more tweetdeck twitter this is my twitter dashboard. it allows me to monitor direct messages, mentions, and the tweets of those i follow. it arranges lists of users into columns (e.g., family, work associates, industry sources, etc.), so i can quickly see what’s happening with any specific group. i use this tool to send messages and replies. it is made by twitter itself, so it is 100% compatible. learn more sorry, no books match the filter you selected. mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed tweetdeck