skip to content (press enter) home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers rahul yadav digital marketing consultant & seo expert delhi, india home blog seo off page seo article submission forum posting pdf submission ping submission profile creation web 2.0 search engine submission on page seo advanced link building tools trim url social media facebook twitter linkedin pinterest social media tools interview services consulting digital marketing ppc seo social media seo mumbai seo new york seo social media verification facebook verification twitter verification instagram verification about advertise contact contribute featured make a donation list of donors invite bloggers november 20, 2019december 29, 2019/ rahul yadav top 20+ search engine submission sites, submit your url to free search engines blogging submit your website to some of the most popular search engines like google, bing, aol, entire web etc. for free web listing. search engine submission has been an activity that has been followed since ages, and is one of the most common off page activities whenever you have new content on the website. what is search engine submission in seo search engine submission refers to getting your url crawled by search engines. by simply submitting your website url you allow the web crawlers to come and read your web page. to speed up the activity of letting the bots know that you have a web page ready to be indexed, you follow search engine submission activity in off page seo. difference between ping submissions and search engine submissions ping submissions refers to alerting the search engines whenever you have new piece of content added to your website whereas in search engine submission you submit your url for letting the bots crawl and index your web page. few of the seo’s still focus on submitting the url on google and rest, whereas if you focus on the search engine submission sites you can earn a lot of free traffic. below we are sharing few of the most used search engine submission site list, to make your website more searchable and get it found on the search engine result pages (serps), your website pages/ urls must be indexed by the search engines. most of the time, the search engine bots of the major search engines like google, yahoo and bing crawl through your web pages and index them. but to be sure that your pages are indexed, you can submit them to those search engines. crawling and indexing are the most essential terms for web search results. i am sure that, most of you know the above terms. but in case you may not, let me share the basics. crawling: crawling is main factor in search engine. search engines use search spider or web crawler to crawl through the different webpages. they reach to every possible page on web to display them in the search results. indexing: after crawling, search engine bots includes the web page in its database and index it according to the search queries/ keywords. once the search engine index the web page, people are able to find it through searches. so, submitting a site to the high pr search engine submission list is the first step towards search engine optimization. also some search engines are localised or area specific. for that reason, it is better to free submit your websites to the different search engines. usually most people tracking google, yahoo, bing etc. other useful seo resources for link building list of profile creation sites list of picture sharing websites list of article sharing websites list of pdf submission websites list of blog commenting websites list of press releases sites list of social bookmarking sites list of top pr directory submissions sites list of forum sites list of web 2.0 websites list of video sharing websites list of classified submission sites list of guest blogging sites list of search engine submission sites list of top question & answer websites list of top document sharing sites list of infographic submission sites list of edu gov backlinks list of ping submission sites google is the giant search engine as we all know but in fact, if you’re only relying on google only then you might be missing a lot of blog traffic, seo & more blogging benefits. well… submitting your blog to top search engine submission sites is quite important because it helps us get more backlinks, mention our blog in different top directory submission sites & it also helps major search engines submit & index our blog more faster than before. another best part of doing this is you get traffic from different seos, too. in this post, i’ll be sharing with you the same list so read… now without any further delay, let’s jump on to our list of: free search engine submission sites list for quick seo google is the major & moreover the leading & giant search engine out there followed by bing. if you’re someone who has used the internet, then there is no excuse you have not used google & another funny reason you have used google is that you have come to this blog post may be using google. google was started back in 1998 by larry page & sergey bin. it’s now said that google literally receives more than a billion page views & queries every passing day. if you have built & started your own blog, submitting it to google is a must to take the step to make your blog live & discoverable to the rest of the world. however, this search engine is enough for your blog to be fully discovered but in fact, you have to still submit it to many other major & top search engine submission sites i’m sharing with you below. google webmaster tools features: the leading search engine for web, images, videos, books & a lot more. receives more than 1 billion searches every day & still growing. literally, all other ses (search engines) & directories etc follow this se to fetch & index contents into their directories. now let’s jump on to the next one on the list. 2. bing webmaster tools bing is another giant search engine that has been around out there for the last few years. bing is backed by microsoft and was launched back in 2009. bing also has a webmaster tools which allow webmasters & site owners to add & submit their blogs and businesses in the giant directory of bing and showcase their blogs in the search results of bing. after you have successfully submitted your blog to google, you must be submitting it to bing webmaster tools, too. bing webmaster tools features: giant & the leading search engine after google. if your blog is indexed, you can get blog traffic & a lot more features. 3. baidu webmaster tools baidu is the leading chinese web search engine which was founded back in 2000. if you want to get traffic from a country like china, you must be using their webmaster tools to submit your blog there and get blog traffic & with that all out of the way, improve your off-site seo. 4. yandex webmaster tools yandex is a russian leading & feature-rich search engine that receives millions of searches every passing day. it’s popular in many other countries as well such as kazakhstan, ukraine, and many others. if you don’t want to miss blog traffic from such countries then submitting your blog to yandex will be much useful. so go ahead and submit your blog to it freely. 5. duckduckgo another one of the leading search engine submission sites is duckduckgo. according to alexa, it’s ranked #338 globally and #231 in the us. even though, the search engine does not offer any webmaster tools where webmasters & site owners can submit their blogs & businesses but it does have many crawlers and bots that fetch & index sites & blogs from various sources such as google, bing, yahoo, wikipedia & many more which means you don’t need to submit your blog to ddg but instead, submit it to other major search engine submission sites and ddg will index it automatically. 6. gigablast.com gigablast is an open source search engine that receives millions of queries every passing day. this search engine indexes web pages from various sources as well but it does offer add url option to index your blog into their directory fast & quickly. submit your blog to gigablast to improve your off-site seo & get targetted blog traffic. 7. exactseek.com the next on our list is exactseek. it’s an old web se and directory where millions of users list their businesses & blogs. it basically offers different submission types such as free standard, paid featured & rapid paid inclusion. choose the plan that fits your business. 8. asr (active search results) asr is known to be one of the best search engine submission sites to submit & promote your blog & site. in case you have not yet joined & submitted your blog there, make sure to do it right now. 9. viesearch.com viesearch is another directory & a small search engine to submit your blog & improve your seo along with that, get a good amount of traffic, too. 10. archive.org as you may already know about internet archive. it’s the leading digital library & way back machine that helps you find the data that was available before but now it’s not existed on the internet or the file or site is damaged & deleted by a mistake. submit your blog to internet archive and it will keep a screenshot of it. here are some more benefits of internet archive i know about: it helps you capture a screenshot & cache version of your available contents & blog on the internet and get it back if the contents or blog is not available or accessible on the internet. helps you improve your seo. get dofollow & nofollow quality backlinks. improve your se ranking. 11. similarsites.com similarsites is a directory which will help you find similar sites to what you’re looking for. you can submit your own blog there and if someone is searching for the same niche you have submitted, they will find your blog in the search results. 12. scrubtheweb.com it’s another search engine & seo directory where you can list your blog & get exposure both in seo & blog traffic. they charge $25 yearly or $100 lifetime in order to submit your blog or site there. 13. infotiger.com infotiger was founded back in 2013 and since then, it works as a powerful search engine & directory where webmasters can list their blogs. also, submitting your own blog to infotiger is free & easy to do. just go to the add url page and submit your blog there. 14. anoox.com anoox is another powerful non-profit search engine & a platform where questions are asked and answered. if you want to increase traffic to your blog then submitting your blog to anoox can be useful & is free to do so. 15. beamed.com beamed is a small directory search engine where you can submit your blog for improving seo and getting a few click every running day. 16. wotbox.com wotbox is a small se that came into existence back in october 2002. you can submit your blog to this search engine submission site free without signing up with them. 17. similarsitesearch.com like similarsites, similarsitesearch.com is another directory & platform that will show you relevant sites to what you type into it. if you want your blog to be discovered by other users, then you can submit your blog for free to similarsitesearch.com. 18. sonicrun.com soicrun.com offers many types of search results like google, bing & others such as web, images, blog & news search results. 19. entireweb.com entireweb is a directory & se where you can submit your blog. it also offers a powerful tool to submit your blog at one submission to multiple search engines and directories at the same time without going into manual submission. final thoughts this was a list of bulk search engine submission sites. i hope you might have found this list very useful. let me know down in the comments which one you are going to try and also don’t forget sharing this list with your social media friends because they will much like it. related posts: what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in… 20+ free infographic submission sites list to submit… 20+ free ping sites to rocket up your indexing in no time! top 20 free q & a sites – list of top question and… 50+ free press release websites list to get traffic top 50+ free forum posting sites for better backlink 100+ free guest posting & blogging sites 2020 rahul yadav rahul yadav is digital marketing consultant and expert in delhi, india. he provides seo, social media marketing & ppc consulting services worldwide. contact at gitm.rahul@gmail.com post navigation prev post8 deliciously rich seo tips for food bloggers next posttop 10 email marketing conferences and events leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name* email* website search for: “i’m an indiblogger!” hi, i am rahul yadav a digital marketing consultant and seo expert in delhi, india. i work with new startups, entrepreneurs, freelancers, and bloggers. i am a professional blogger and i write, speak, and consult mostly about how to blog tips, seo news, products reviews, inbound marketing, social media marketing etc. related posts: what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in… 20+ free infographic submission sites list to submit… 20+ free ping sites to rocket up your indexing in no time! top 20 free q & a sites – list of top question and… 50+ free press release websites list to get traffic top 50+ free forum posting sites for better backlink 100+ free guest posting & blogging sites 2020 top 10 free pdf submission sites | pdf sharing sites… how does search engine optimization work how to submit blogger sitemap to google webmaster tools? how google's search results work: crawling, indexing… 1000+ free backlink submission & link building sites 15 seo interview questions and answers 5 tips for creating seo friendly urls 35 free photo sharing sites & image hosting websites recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing legal and technical hurdles surrounding online casino in india top 10 digital marketing training institute in ahmedabad top 10 social media marketing companies in delhi top 10 best tech websites you should bookmark right now top 5 digital marketing institutes and training course in ambala 9 ways to really boost your ecommerce project about us rahul yadav is a digital marketing consultant from new delhi, india. he is also an author, speaker and trainer in the field of digital marketing. he trains students, professionals and business men on digital marketing. related posts: what is an xml sitemap? how to create a sitemap in… 20+ free infographic submission sites list to submit… 20+ free ping sites to rocket up your indexing in no time! top 20 free q & a sites – list of top question and… recent posts top 20 graphic designing company in india an interview with victor blasco, ceo yum yum videos an interview with stuart walker from nichehacks sorav jain from echovme – an interview on digital marketing categories categories select category adsense affiliate marketing ahmedabad amazon analysis android apps australia blogger blogging business chennai content coupon courses deals delhi digital marketing dubai ecommerce email marketing facebook fashion food guest blogging guest post guwahati haryana health hosting hyderabad ias iit instagram interview interview questions jaipur kerala keyword research laptop link building linkedin make money malaysia mumbai new zealand noida orm paid post pakistan patna pinterest podcast ppc pune seo singapore snapchat social media sri lanka startup tool travel twitter uncategorized updated vlogging web design wordpress youtube partner with rahul digital copyright © 2020 rahul yadav. creative business | developed by rara theme. powered by wordpress.