skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress march 13, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 3 comments coming up with ideas, researching ideas, writing about ideas, and finally publishing ideas, each part of the content creation process is lengthy and requires a lot of energy. exposing content to new eyes, though, is perhaps the part that takes up the most time and energy. anyone who wants to become a professional blogger and/or writer will eventually have to learn the basics. then, there’s the more advanced lessons in online marketing and how to expose content in an organic way. one way is through content syndication, and below are content syndication plugins for your wordpress website. content syndication offers a way to republish your content on social media sites, news aggregators, and article sites without your direct interference. you can also syndicate content from other sources to your own site. mastering content syndication means that we can both market our content to external resources and connect with other authors. news seo getting listed on google news can be one of the most exciting things for your media site as far as organic exposure goes. google gives exposure to sites that have been approved for the google news platform. being able to tap into this pool of visitors could mean a huge thing for your business. the news seo plugin from yoast optimizes your google news appearance. the plugin creates an xml sitemap specifically for news articles and a specific rss feed tailored for editor’s picks content. you can have a standout tag to authorize your own content above everyone else’s. of course, it has more features and snippets that ensure your maximum exposure on google news! wp rss aggregator grabbing feeds from other sites reached a peak season at one point. everyone was creating auto-blog sites that would farm content from other sources. and because google algorithm wasn’t intelligent enough, many succeeded in making money without doing any work at all. these days, auto-blogging is somewhat of a myth. it’s very rare to see a site that has succeeded in making revenue and maintaining a credible community base by doing purely auto-blogging. the wp rss aggregator plugin is for those who want to complement their existing unique content with relevant news snippets. additional add-ons can help you extend this plugin with more features. you can get keyword filtering to weed out unwanted feeds. add a plugin that gathers thumbnail data and content excerpts to give your readers a peek at the content you are pulling from other sites. there’s even a plugin that transforms articles into unique posts. however, there’s no telling whether this is going to be good or bad for your site and your content strategy. threewp automatically share content by multiposting on multisite blogs. syndicate posts to other blogs, update posts between blogs, share content templates, etc. broadcast posts can be linked to their parents, which updates child posts when the parent posts are updated. this includes all data: title, slug, content, custom fields, attachments, etc. there’s also a substantial plugin (add-on) pack available for download on the official site of threewp. further, your plugin capabilities get 50+ different additions and configuration options. you get them as soon as you activate the extension pack. google my business auto publish instead of doing it all manually, you can utilize different tools to automate the process of publishing content from your page to social media. to share your material on your google my business page, the easy to use plugin, google my business auto publish, will do the trick for you. bear in mind, posting on google my business is also very search engine friendly and can have a positive impact on your wordpress blog or website. however, to save yourself time and never forget to publish again, we have a solution for you. pick google my business auto publish and let it do the work for you. although the plugin is free of charge, it comes with loads of different features that you can set for sharing your content exactly how you fancy. you can schedule posts or publish them immediately. moreover, you can distribute content based on different categories that you set, too. last but not least, google my business auto publish utilizes google my business api which makes it display your featured image automatically and sets a link back to your site, too. linkedin auto publish to link your wordpress website with linkedin and publish content on the social platform automatically, all you need is linkedin auto publish. in this collection of content syndication plugins for wordpress, we cover an assortment of different tools that will benefit you greatly. from such specific to one social media platform to those that include all platforms and then some. as the name suggests, linkedin auto publish is for linkedin users only. linkedin auto publish is quick and straightforward to use, perfect for both beginners and pros. moreover, it comes with two main functions; one allows you to pick with whom you would like to share your content and the second lets you choose between simple text sharing or more advanced one that also displays featured image. there is more to linkedin auto publish than that, ensuring you to get the most out of wordpress-to-linkedin sharing. facebook auto publish if you run a blog and you would like to expand your reach, try out facebook auto publish and spread the word out. this is the right auto-publishing tool that you need to keep all your facebook fans updated with the latest content as soon as it goes live on your blog. there are loads of different functions you can select from to decide how you would like your posts to appear on facebook. you can set filters to publish content based on categories or custom post types. furthermore, you can share just text, text with image, as well as share a link back to your blog post where they can find the full article. you can also enable or disable publishing your wordpress page and post to a specific facebook page only. take action and start sharing. tgomatic with the popularity of telegram, you might be very interested in distributing your content to that network as well. instead of doing it manually, you better seek help from tgomatic. this content syndication wordpress plugin is all set and ready to do the work instead of you. the tool will publish content automatically from any wordpress blog or website. on top of that, once you set things up, you can easily forget about it, as tgomatic will do the publishing in the background for you. when it comes to publishing to groups and conversations on telegram, you save yourself a lot of time with tgomatic. however, you can also use the plugin to do it manually. but setting the appropriate parameters and see your content get distributed to telegram users would be ideally. blog2social blog2social is pretty self-explanatory. this content syndication wordpress plugin is free of charge, yet it comes with many great features and functions. once you start hammering out compelling content for your ever thriving blog, let blog2social do the distribution of your masterpieces across different social media platforms. this plugin supports facebook, twitter, pinterest, instagram, xing, imgur and medium, to name a few. after you set things up in blog2social, the plugin will then publish new social posts for your articles according to the frequency that you prefer. you can also make all sorts of additional customization tweaks and improvements, tailoring social media posts according to your signature style. do not make them feel too robotic! some other features of blog2social are html markup editing, saving social posts as drafts and automatic hashtag generation. revive old posts if you would like to automate publishing your blog content to your social media, revive old posts is the way to go. this content syndication wordpress plugin is a versatile and powerful tool that offers you to save time with content distribution. along with posts, revive old posts also supports publishing pages and other types of content, like recipes and ebooks. moreover, revive old posts is great for everyone, from bloggers who are just starting out to authority sites, as well as ecommerce website owners. with revive old posts, you can post both new and old content on your social media accounts, bringing in even more traffic. you can also specify the time between each social post, so you do not bombard your followers too frequently. other features are automatic hashtag generation, linking back to your site and exclusion of specific posts. twitter auto publish for twitter specifically, here is twitter auto publish. this free wordpress plugin allows you to publish on twitter on autopilot. no need to be manually logging into your twitter account, copying and pasting the link for each post you publish anymore. with twitter auto publish, it all happens automatically. similarly to other social sharing auto-publishing plugins, twitter auto publish also offers you to set different rules to publish content based on categories or custom post types. the tool can display simple text, a message with an image and even lets you enable or disable mentioning your wordpress page. this is a fantastic approach to drive more traffic to your website. with a twitter message that features just an excerpt of your main article, you can capture their attention and make them hungry for more. grow your online project to the next level. pressforward pressforward is the ultimate content aggregation and syndication platform for sites that have more than one writer at a time. with pressforward you can find, collect, discuss and optimize content to your own specific needs. it has been built as a content curation platform to help bloggers, writers and media sites to collect content and optimize for their own particular requirements. nextscripts social media is the biggest traffic source for hundreds of thousands of bloggers, and simply leaving social media behind is not an option. we are more than certain that eventually wordpress will support social media features natively (as much as that would make developers angry!), but for now we have to rely on external plugins and resources to help us get our content exposed and shared on social media. the snap plugin is an amazing platform for instantly sharing your new content to social media, whether it’s google+, facebook, twitter, flickr, flipboard, or linkedin (amongst hundreds of other social networks) that you want to have your content auto-shared on, snap will give you enough features and options that you will never again have to worry about publishing your content to social media manually. just write a new post and either entire post or it’s nicely formatted announcement with backlink will be published to all your configured social networks. you can reach the most audience and tell all your friends, readers and followers about your new post. plugin works with profiles, business pages, community pages, groups, etc. messages are 100% customizable and adopted for each network requirements. microblog poster microblog poster is very similar to snap in the sense that it will also publish your content to social media automatically. the only exception here is that microblog poster also provides a feature that lets you share your old content back to social media. it’s essential that we understand the value of sharing our old content back to social media, at least occasionally. even when we publish a new post and share it on social media, only a fraction of our fans and followers are able to see the post because of how frequently other sources share content as well, so it only makes sense to share some of the content we have produced multiple times to guarantee its maximum exposure. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. social sharingwordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts 5 best free wordpress iframe plugins an iframe is an essential html document you can find on another website. its use… the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 a directory website is one where the names, addresses, contact and other details of like… 9 most accurate wordpress visitor counter plugins are you thinking about adding visitors counter on your website to display the number of… 20 best free wordpress plugins for multisites for 2020 many users run not one, but multiple sites. if you're using wordpress, you really do… the best wordpress call-to-action plugins to improve conversion when visitors land on a web page, they may or may not notice the many… awesome ad banner management plugins for your wordpress monetizing is a big part of website management. while some bloggers keep their sites ad-free… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 16 content protection plugins for wordpress websites next post: top 19 free and popular contact form plugins for wordpress we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×