skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 march 27, 2020 vishnu plugins 7 comments looking to integrate google maps into your website? these popular google maps plugins for wordpress will help you to get started in no time. it is quite easy to include an interactive map on your website. just submit your location details to google. this will also give your website a wider reach, and your listings will show up on a google search. use plugins to help add google maps to your website. you can embed and customize google maps and insert it into your pages and posts, and you can use it as a widget, too. adding local images or landmarks will help your visitors to find you more quickly. you can add a simple map, or you can add a map with fancy features with the help of plugins. before you go on to embed google maps into your website using a plugin, you must check the api of the plugin. google maps uses two kinds of apis: static maps api, which is just a string of code that is inserted and displays images with no functionality, and javascript api, which comes with all the functionalities. the plugin that you pick must have the same javascript api version as google maps. otherwise, you must provide an api key. you may also wonder why you need a plugin when you can download google maps directly into your website. google will give you a code that you will have to insert into any page or post using the text editor. then, your store will be on the map. that’s about it. you cannot add any details of your location, insert markers, or give directions on this map. plugins will make your maps interactive and customizable. they will help you to totally lead your customer right up to your doorstep with landmarks, directions, or any other pointers. there are a number of google maps plugins that you can use and here are the best ones: very simple google maps for a quick, effortless, yet sophisticated, google maps inclusion, this next wordpress plugin will do the trick. if you would like to showcase the location of your business on a map, you can now do it without a hitch. hence the name, very simple google maps, is an easy tool that you add to your page via a shortcode. the whole process is very straightforward, without any mess and distractions, perfect for all levels of users. moreover, you can also style the map with css and make it practice your regulations. additionally, very simple google maps plugin also allows you to connect it with google business listing and have it appear on the map itself. if you are new to adding google maps to your website, there is also a quick introduction/instruction on how to make it happen without breaking a sweat. more info / purchase gutenberg map block if you are actively utilizing the gutenberg block builder, you might want to enrich your presence with the use of gutenberg map block. it is a tool you will find a small breeze using, as it does not require any rocket science. even as a beginner, you will successfully include a map to your website or blog with gutenberg map block. all it takes is to install and activate this wordpress plugin and you can already add it to the content – as simple as it sounds. along with quick inclusion, there are also a few settings that gutenberg map block comes with. you can alter address/coordinates, style map’s height and zoom in. have in mind, you only need to set up the api key once, and it will work across all blocks. more info / purchase map markers if you are looking for a versatile and all-around google maps plugin, you better not miss checking out map markers. it is a convenient, user- and beginner-friendly solution for crafting custom maps. showcasing stores, real estate, dealers, clients, restaurants, you name it, on a map has never been easier. map markers also comes with multiple features and functions that you can take to your total advantage right off the bat. first and foremost, you can create several different maps on your page. you can also customize the style of the map, as well as the look of the markers. moreover, map markers comes with handy filtering, a search function, a gutenberg block, four positions for toggle panel and more. if you would like to witness the amazingness of map markers, check the live preview of the dark and the light map version first and go from there. mappress easy google maps mappress easy google maps will help you add an interactive map to your website. just enter the address in any post or page, and the plugin will automatically insert a map to your website. add directions to your address. create markers with html code, and drag them about the map till you find the right spot for it. add pictures and links as well. mappress is multisite-compatible and is compatible with google map api v3. the plugin supports street view with real-time traffic, and you can create multiple maps in a single page or post. the premium version will let you choose from 200 marker icons to place on your map, or you can download markers from anywhere you like. to show all your locations on a single map, you can create mashups. link the map to your pages and posts or add a widget if you wish. to purchase the pro version, you will have to pay $29.95 for the basic license, which you can use with three sites. for a developer’s license, you will have to pay $49.95, with no limit to the number of sites that you can use it on. these licenses entitle you to one year of support and updates. wp google maps it is great to add wp google maps on contact page maps for highlighting a delivery area and many other similar needs. choose from nine map themes, or create and add your own map theme. insert markers simply by typing in the address, and drag them exactly where you want them. add animation to the markers. the plugin supports google maps street view, street locator, localization, and map widget functionality. it also supports road map, terrain, satellite, and hybrid views. define the dimensions of the map, and create it in no time at all. add many layers as well—bicycle, traffic, transit, and weather. this plugin is compatible with caching plugins. you can use it without being saddled with any advertising links. the store locator functionality is available, and you can filter the search for stores based on geographic location. the professional edition does not restrict you to one map. add markers, categories, and directions to the maps. show your visitor’s location on the map, and make it the start or end point for directions. hide all map markers until a store locator search is completed. the store locator search can be by category, and you can add multiple map widgets. the professional edition costs $39.99. 10web map builder for google maps regardless of the main objective what for are you adding google maps to your website or blog, you can do it with 10web map builder for google maps. this google maps plugin is free of charge, yet it comes with very many features that will benefit you greatly. first and foremost, you can add as many google maps to your page as you want; there is no limit to that. of course, adding one or two would suit the majority, but to each their own. moreover, 10web map builder for google maps also comes with some nice styling features that will help you create the design that matches your theme ideally. of course, your final creation will work great on both mobile and desktop devices, as well as popular web browsers. some more goodies include store locator, geolocation, unlimited markers and intuitive builder. finally, you can unlock yourself even more features with the pro version of the plugin. more info / purchase api key for google maps this next google maps plugin is pretty self-explanatory. if you are in need of adding google maps api key to your theme or plugin, you can do it with ease by employing, well, api key for google maps. with the use of this tool, you can add the key to pretty much any location on your website’s front-end. with the quick installation and activation process, you can start using it immediately, out of the box. from then on, you do not really need to perform much work to get the plugin to do its job with your google maps api key. more info / purchase extended google map for elementor if you would like to expand the possibilities of elementor and google maps, you need this sophisticated and easy to use free wordpress plugin. extended google map for elementor is a nifty add-on that will help add multiple address pins to a single map. of course, it supports all sorts of different map styles, like satellite, terrain, hybrid, road map and even your custom versions. inside the elementor page builder, you will also find latitude and longitude to specify the exact location. what’s more, extended google map for elementor includes all sorts of different goodies that you can take to your advantage. the tool supports your own google maps api key, comes with ten color marker pin icons, zoom control, streetview and supports multiple different languages. make google maps follow your wants precisely and enjoy the final product. more info / purchase zeguten advanced map block wondering where to find a stylish and multifunctional google map for your website? explore zeguten advanced map block, which can be added to any page built with wordpress blocks editor. this block brings google map integration right to the gutenberg editor. take a look at the multiple extra features of the map block: control a map’s zoom level; set the block height both for desktop and mobile devices; choose one of the 12 map layouts for any taste; add fullscreen and zoom buttons; switch between map and satellite view with or without labels and terrain. what is more, an advanced map block provides you with a spectrum of customization properties, such as setting a background color or border along with its color, width and radius. one of the biggest advantages of the block is its responsiveness – you can set paddings and margins for a desktop, tablet and mobile phone. advanced map will allow you to effortlessly engage people and catch their attention. what’s more important, with zeguten you get advanced map block along with a dozen more blocks for gutenberg. check it out! more info / purchase mapsvg are you ready to take showcasing products, houses, people and other whatnots on a map to the next level? well, now you can, thanks to the convenient and powerful wordpress plugin, mapsvg. this tool unlocks a whole new specter of possibilities for you. it is a solution that changes the way how you display custom content on either google maps, vector or image map. it even adds filters and search functions, which call for fantastic user experience. the possibilities are close to unlimited for your convenience. from real estate, stores, people, you name it, with mapsvg, you can now bring into being any interactive map you fancy. you can also entirely style and customize the default look of google maps precisely to your likings. you can also make custom clickable areas with mapsvg’s drawing tool, add overlays and introduce nearly any custom content you fancy. with mapsvg, you can map everything. more info / purchase google maps cp if you are writing a post about a location in a remote corner of the world, you would like your readers to have an idea of where the place is on the map. google maps cp will let you insert a map into your posts directly. you can even include markers for the related posts. you can adjust the number of markers you use in the settings. when you insert the markers with related geolocation info into a template where many posts are displayed, post over which the mouse hovers will be highlighted. readers can be led to the related posts. markers are customizable and associated bubbles can open or be hidden. addresses can be stated normally or as point coordinates. the plugin is compatible with the latest google maps javascript api version 3. google maps in multiple languages is possible, and any change you make to one map will apply to all the maps. normal, terrain, hybrid, and satellite views are supported. in the premium version, points can be displayed with tags and routes can be drawn between the points. multiple maps can be inserted in a page and maps can also be inserted as a widget in the sidebar. a visitor can get directions on the map. style the maps and display user location if you wish. you can purchase the premium version for $19.99 maps marker pro maps marker pro is a feature rich plugin that allows you to add pins to any place in your wordpress site easily. it is used on 88,412 websites. once installed, you can add maps to your sites in pages, posts, widgets and templates using shortcode. the frontend offers the user a lot of choice. the ui takes a bit of familiarizing, and the advanced editor will open up a few more options. you can create make believe maps for gaming or for photographs. create a marker, set the map dimensions and assign a layer and the map is almost done. geolocation support, size and zoom level for each marker or layer can be set. you can restore default settings at any time. it works on mutisite installations. data can be accessed from bing, openstreet map or google earth. niche maps like open cycle map for cyclists and transport maps for mass transit are available. google adsense is integrated. the plugin includes minimaps, maps optimized for mobiles, full screen maps that use html 5 and custom google maps styling. you can purchase a personal license for $29, a plus license for $79 and a professional license for $149 and you can use it on one, five and twenty five domains respectively. you purchase a license for life and for updates, you will have to subscribe annually. the free version of this plugin is leaflet maps marker and you can download it from the wordpress plugin repository. google maps widget if you want to display a single, fast loading image of google maps in a widget, google maps widget is the plugin for you. the widget can be located in any widget ready area. the location is not restricted to widgets, and any page or post can also display the map with the help of shortcode. you can adjust the map size, type of map – road, satellite, terrain or hybrid, zoom level, pin color, size and label, as well as the position of text. links can be in the form of urls or lightbox. the premium version comes with about 50 extra features. extra pins can be chosen from the 700+ pin library. the map can be of the road or satellite type. header and footer text can be added and choice of skin colors is available. google analytics is integrated. there is no fixed price for the plugin and you can pay what you think is fair. google maps easy to simplify the process of adding google maps to your website all you need is a plugin and you are ready to roll. one solution to make it happen is google maps easy plugin. in just a mere minute, you can already see the result and let your visitors enjoy a new addition to your existing web space. you can also utilize three different approaches to how you would like to attach google maps to your page; with a shortcode, in a popup or employ the widget. google maps easy offers you to add unlimited map markers and locations and you can also add such with different media, like text, images or videos. you can also effortlessly modify this google maps plugin and make it follow your branding regulations precisely. there are all these other goodies that you can take to your benefit and make the most out of the tool. intergeo google maps plugin whether you are a travel agency, a travel blogger or you would simply like to showcase your company or shop location, use a google maps plugin and the rest becomes history. with intergeo google maps, you can do just that and succeed at it even if you are without any prior experience. installing, activating and using the extension is as newbie-friendly as it could possibly be. however, once you employ all its features, the final product will appear like a professional would build it. intergeo google maps’ feature consists of shortcode, graphic overlays, direction routes, markers and zooming. of course, you can also adjust and fine-tune the appearance according to your preference. follow the simple step-by-step process and you will see how quickly you will have it ready and live on your website. wp google map with all the google maps plugins we have in store for you, adding custom maps to your pages happens in a small breeze. wp google map is another spectacular tool that realizes the new inclusion to your web space without a hassle. but first, do not miss checking out the how-to video tutorial and get the gist of it. we highly recommend wathcing it if you are doing it for the very first time. however, even if this is new to you, you will soon find out how effortless the method is. of course, it also does not require any coding knowledge whatsoever. you will enjoy editing and customizing wp google map a whole bunch. after all, the add-on is user-friendly and ideal for both beginners and experts. you can drag markers to the exact location, use a shortcode to add the map in posts and pages and set preferred width and height. the options are there so do use them. advanced google maps advanced google maps is a plugin that unlocks a new horizon of possibilities when it comes to adding the most striking google maps to your page. the plugin has a name like that for a reason. it includes an array of features that will help you create a maps section on your page that will be of benefit to everyone. from multi to single location maps, interactive maps and route direction maps, advanced google maps has a bunch of different solutions out of the box. you can also choose from several different layouts and freely customize and adjust the default settings accordingly. you can change color, heights, width, tooltip font color and more. additionally, create custom markers and make google maps follow your branding regulations to a t. what’s more, you can change the language and implement convenient info window card. look no further and see advanced google maps in action by heading over to the live preview page. google maps with multiple markers addon if you are a fan of wpbakery page builder, you will definitely enjoy using google maps with multiple markers addon. build custom maps with unique markers in a snap, minus coding. that’s correct, all the google maps plugins that you find on this list are skipping coding entirely. meaning, using, building and creating is available to those just starting out, as well as pros. google maps with multiple markers addon is no different. core features of google maps with multiple markers addon are ready-made templates, mobile-readiness, instant installation and browser compatibility. besides, you also gain access to comprehensive documentation that will help you out on your journey to the successful creation of a custom google maps. like that would not be enough, friendly and professional support is also available at any given time of the day. interactive google maps if you want to create many interactive maps and display them, interactive google maps maybe a good choice for you. it is a suitable plugin when you want to show many places around the world, and so if you have a requirement to show your office locations the world over in a corporate website, or the projects your ngo is involved in various locations or the places of interest in a travel website, you now have an idea which plugin to pick. you can highlight regions in a map by coloring or by using colored bubbles as markers in the region. when a visitor hovers at a particular spot, a tooltip with information will appear. different actions follow when a user clicks on an active area. a new url may open, or a message may appear. if you are familiar with javascript, customized action on clicking is also possible. many maps of the world, continents, regions, and parts of a country are already included. plenty of options are available. you can change the background color, the borders, and the dimensions of the map, as well as color inactive regions. with visual composer, there is a lot you can do. you can include maps anywhere, including in a widget in a sidebar or in the template using php. the maps will display in mac products as well. purchase the plugin from codecanyon for $21. wp google map plugin wp google map plugin is yet another feature-rich plugin, and it comes in two versions: lite and premium. the lite version will allow you to show any number of google maps on a single map and to decide on the latitude/longitude bearing at which the map must be centered. on clicking a marker, a url may open up or a message window may appear. the maps can display in many ways. the default road map view, google earth satellite images, a blend of normal and satellite views, terrain view, real time traffic view and show bicycle paths. in the premium version, the location details are in the message window and the lists are according to address, category, or location. also, the start and end locations are on the direction tabs. if you have too many markers, you can enable marker clusters. as a premium purchaser, you also have access to snazzymaps and access markers from external sources. you can add any number of maps on pages and posts using shortcode or in a sidebar using widgets. you can also use shortcodes to add unlimited locations by address or by latitude and longitude bearings. searchable and paginated location listing is possible. display polygons and polylines and modify existing ones. purchase the premium version from codecanyon for $28. geo mashup geo mashup will turn your wordpress into a geocms. this free plugin prioritizes customization options over ease of use. user-requested features have been added over the years. save location information on pages and posts, and then present it on maps in many interesting ways. access other map providers, like openstreet and leaflet. you can also filter global maps by category, custom taxonomy, or custom post types. further, you can display the distance between the start and a searched location using a geosearch widget. you can put the markers in clusters to present a neater appearance, and connect the category markers with a colored line. click on a location, and you get the address. this is possible with reverse geocoding. geo rss is automatically added to the feeds. simple google maps short code i almost didn’t include this plugin, but changed my mind on seeing the perfect 5 star rating, the sheer simplicity and over 10,000+ active installs. there is no setup page of any kind with this plugin. you simply have to paste a shortcode in a page or post, fill in the address and save it. done, your map is ready. no customization is possible. simple google maps short code will enable a shortcode that will help to embed google maps on any page or post. the codes will deliver cached maps with little impact on the performance of your website. which is the plugin for you? the simple fact is that there is no one choice. many good wordpress google maps plugins are not on this list. this collection is the only representative. if you are looking at extensive features, try maps marker pro, wp google maps, or mappress. wp google maps is also for those who want only a single map that is both simple and functional. for a no-frills and fast loading plugin, take a closer look at 5sec google maps. if you want to show all your locations all over the world attractively, try interactive google maps. if it is a simple, free and functional plugin you are looking for, simple google maps short code or google map widget should work just fine. have you tried any plugin that has worked out great for you ? your feedback is welcome. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. free pluginsgoogle mapswordpresswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share vishnu vishnu is a freelance writer by night, works as a data analyst by day. related posts top 17 wordpress instagram plugins 2020 marketing on social media has taken off in a big way, and instagram is among… the best wordpress plugins to optimize images 2020 images are an integral part of most websites. no doubt, a striking image helps to… awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part ii this is part ii of the three-part series of articles on awesome woocommerce extensions that… top 18 google plugins for wordpress blogs 2020 many of us know google by its benchmark products, like gmail, google+, google drive, google… top 14 image lossless compression plugins for speeding up wordpress lossless image compression is a big deal, more often than not it is the actual… awesome ad banner management plugins for your wordpress monetizing is a big part of website management. while some bloggers keep their sites ad-free… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 next post: the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×