wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » news top wordpress news wpbeginner's wordpress news keep you updated with what's hot in the wordpress industry. stay updated with wordpress releases, major announcements, exclusive wordpress deals, and much more. what’s coming in wordpress 5.4 (features and screenshots) posted on february 17th, 2020 by editorial staff wordpress 5.4 is scheduled to be released on march 31, 2020. it will be the first major release of the year and will ship with some significant improvements. we’ve been following the development closely and testing the first beta to try out new features that… read more » welcome rymera and wholesale suite to wpbeginner growth fund posted on december 12th, 2019 by syed balkhi today, i’m extremely excited to announce that wpbeginner growth fund has taken an equity stake in rymera web co, the parent company of the popular wholesale suite plugin, advanced coupons plugin, and an upcoming woocommerce inventory management plugin, inventoroo. this is the first investment of… read more » 120+ black friday / cyber monday 2019 wordpress deals – big savings posted on november 29th, 2019 by editorial staff looking for the best black friday and cyber monday deals on your favorite wordpress products? the next few days are the perfect time to buy premium wordpress plugins, themes, web hosting, and tools to grow your business. as always, to help you find the best… read more » what’s new in wordpress 5.3 (features and screenshots) posted on november 12th, 2019 by editorial staff wordpress 5.3 was released just a few hours ago. it will be the last major wordpress release of 2019. this release is packed with some new features and lots of improvements including a brand new default theme. in this article, we will show you what’s… read more » wpbeginner users get a free domain and 62% off hostgator web hosting posted on november 5th, 2019 by editorial staff do you want to start a blog, make a new website, transfer your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org, or simply want to switch hosting companies? if your answer is yes, then let us make it super easy for you. our friends over at hostgator are… read more » google chrome will block mixed content – are you ready for it? posted on october 23rd, 2019 by editorial staff recently, google chrome announced that they will soon start blocking mixed content also known as insecure content on web pages. this feature will be gradually rolled out starting from december 2019. this should give website owners enough time to check for mixed content errors and… read more » what’s coming in wordpress 5.3 (features and screenshots) posted on september 30th, 2019 by editorial staff wordpress 5.3 is expected to be released on november 12, 2019. it will be the last major release of the year and will ship with some significant improvements. we’ve been following the development closely and testing the first beta to try out new features that… read more » announcing wpbeginner growth accelerator fund (round 2) posted on august 28th, 2019 by syed balkhi last year, i decided to do something that was never done before in the wordpress community. i created the wpbeginner growth accelerator, first-ever growth fund focused entirely on wordpress businesses. today, i want to take the exciting steps and open up the second round of… read more » say hello to rafflepress – the best wordpress giveaway and contest plugin posted on august 6th, 2019 by syed balkhi during the wpbeginner 10th birthday giveaway, many of you asked me about which wordpress plugin are we using to run the contest? it was a new plugin that my team had built called rafflepress, but it wasn’t available to the public. but now it is.… read more » wpbeginner turns 10 years old – reflections, updates, and a wordpress giveaway ($124,000+ in prizes) posted on july 4th, 2019 by editorial staff wow, it’s the tenth fourth. today, wpbeginner is officially 10 years old — feels unreal to type this! like every year, i want to take a few minutes and do a quick recap of all the major things happening in business as well as my… read more » 1 2 3 … 20 » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.