start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising communication motivation advertising top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life jordan fried read full profile share pin it tweet share email whether you’re an aspiring blogger or just looking for a little inspiration in your life, here’s a list of 10 best blogs with inspirational bloggers who all started out as, well… bloggers. enjoy! 1. meet gary vaynerchuk @garyvaynerchuk.com he’s a very loud and charismatic new yorker who gained internet fame as the crazy and outgoing host of wine library tv, a video blog that obsessively talked about everything related to wine. through online video blogging, he built his wine business from a $3-million-dollar-a-year wine retail store to a $60 million dollar wine wholesale business. gary vaynerchuk has built a multi-million dollar empire relating to his personal brand. he’s a two-time best-selling author and co-founder of vayner media, a very large digital marketing agency that works with some of the largest brands in the world. he’s been featured in the wall street journal, gq, and time magazine, as well as appeared on late night with conan o’brien and the ellen degeneres show. 2. meet rand fishkin @seomoz.org rand fiskin is a college dropout who started blogging about seo (search engine optimization) back in 2004 while working for a family-run web development company. he was also providing seo consulting services to a few small clients. seomoz has since left the consulting business and instead focuses exclusively on creating awesome seo software, as well as supporting a large community with educational resources related to the search industry. advertising it is rumored that the company generates millions of dollars each and every month from its software and subscription services. the company also raised $18 million in 2012, which it has been using to acquire other companies. rand is still actively running the company and occasionally posts on the main blog. 3. meet pat flynn @smartpassiveincome.com pat is one of the most inspirational bloggers in the world. after losing his job a few years into his career, he was forced to scramble to support his growing family. he started a website called “smartpassiveincome.com” to track his progress with various websites and online money making projects. he has since built a massive following and readership thanks to his transparency and honesty. still to this day, pat discloses his monthly earnings to readers, which has inspired countless individuals. pat currently attends industry conferences, runs a regular podcast for his readers, and spends as much time as he can with his family. pat has earned, on average, around $50,000 usd per month. 4. meet brian clark @copyblogger.com brian clark is the founder of copyblogger. he started the blog back in 2006 as a resource for entrepreneurs to learn to be better copywriters, content marketers, and all around “kings of content.” the blog has since grown to become an authority on creating killer content for the web. with 100k+ subscribers, brian got smart and leveraged his readership to launch copyblogger media, which launched several spinoff companies. these software companies include scribe, synthesis, premise, and studiopress. advertising the genius behind his business model is that his loyal readers love him and line up to buy the marketing software his company creates. brian is still very active in the day-to-day of running copyblogger. 5. meet andrew sullivan @thedishdaily.com andrew started his blog, the daily dish, near the end of 2000. by the middle of 2003, he was receiving about 300,000 unique visits per month. in 2013, sullivan made some big changes and decided to leave his other his other blogging gigs (formerly at time, the atlantic, and the daily beast) to work on the daily dish full-time. on launch day, the blog reportedly took in over $330,000 in recurring revenue, charging an average of $20/month to readers. 6. meet harvey levin @tmz.com harvey is an american lawyer, legal analyst, blogger, and celebrity reporter. his website tmz is a leading authority on celebrity gossip. you can frequently see harvey hosting his own tv show or appearing as a guest on celebrity related matters on cnn, fox, and other networks. he managed to leverage the popularity of his blog to build a personal brand for himself. 7. meet michael arrington @techcrunch.com michael is one of my favorite bloggers of all time. he started out as a mergers and acquisitions lawyer working on tech deals in california. after realizing his passion for the startup world, he decided to start a tech blog called techcrunch.com, where he profiled and reviewed some of the best up-and-coming tech companies and entrepreneurs from around the world. advertising techcrunch became one of the most widely read blogs in the tech industry, and as a result, it was acquired by aol for $30 million dollars. michael used the proceeds of the sale to become an angel investor and to set up his own investment fund, crunchfund, to invest in startups. today, arrington is still considered to be a mover and shaker in the valley. 8. meet tim ferriss @fourhourworkweek.com/blog tim is a self-proclaimed life hacker who built a massive following online through his blog posts. he is the author of the “4 hour work week” which became an instant bestseller. he has also gone on to publish two other best-selling books. he’s a frequent lecturer around the globe. he has also popularized the idea of “lifestyle design” and living an unconventional life. tim is credited with popularizing the “internet lifestyle” or the ability of lifestyle entrepreneurs to work on their laptops from wherever in the world. 9. meet timothy sykes @timothysykes.com tim started blogging to document how he turned $12,000 of his bar-mitzvah money into over $1 million dollars. he has gained internet fame for being an authority on penny stock trading. his blog has hundreds of thousands of visitors, which has allowed him to launch additional companies like profit.ly, which educate other traders on trader strategies. advertising he can frequently be seen making television appearances on abc, cnn, fox, and cnbc about stock market matters. 10. meet darren rowse @problogger.net darren is another blogger who you have to know about. he started blogging as a hobby. he blogged about the olympics and his passion for photography, then eventually started problogger, a website dedicated to helping other bloggers. darren is currently a full-time blogger and started making money from advertising deals, affiliate programs, adsense, and selling an e-book. darren has gained quite a bit of fame online and was named to the forbes internet celebrity list in 2007. he lives in melbourne, australia, with his family and still makes a full-time living from blogging! if you aspire to become a blogger, learn from these successful bloggers about how to make money with a blog: how to make money with a blog (according to 23 successful bloggers) featured photo credit: unsplash via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next how to make money with a blog (according to 23 successful bloggers) what is resilience and why is it important? think your work sucks? 7 ways to deal with it advertising advertising more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness more by this author jordan fried top 10 best blogs around the world that will inspire your life 5 reasons why 2014 is the year you start using a vpn secure your internet privacy with this guide how virtual private networks work how to make a stunning linkedin profile trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next the key to happiness and leading a fulfilling life why you’re feeling empty and how to fill the void you are not your thoughts: 10 ways to get rid of unhealthy thoughts how self doubt keeps you stuck (and how to overcome it) advertising advertising communication motivation advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. read full profile share pin it tweet share email how many times have you not achieved your goals and let yourself down due to your lack of motivation? when you’re not wallowing in sadness and self-pity, you are too busy procrastinating till you can’t anymore and before you know it, you are part of vicious cycle of anxiety and stress. whether it’s losing weight or bringing your business to fruition – motivation is essential for growth and success in every sphere of our lives. that said, it is not easy staying motivated. in order to constantly stay motivated, you need to take ownership of your life and consciously make efforts in that direction. well, it’s never too late to take matters in your hands and change the course of your life. here are 11 effective ways to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated: 1. write your goals the power of writing goals down has always been underestimated. why write when you can remember, right? wrong. our thoughts are all over the place and the first step to achieve your goals is to organize your thoughts. so, write your goals down, however big or small they might be. make them as specific as possible and assign deadlines to each of them. as you write them down and revisit them regularly, they get further drilled in your head, taking you closer to your goals. doing this small exercise helps you to remain focused, motivated and lets you track your progress with ease. start today – take to your laptop or a diary and get down to writing what you wish to achieve in life. 2. beat procrastination your lack of motivation and procrastination go hand in hand. every time you procrastinate, your motivation levels take a greater hit. the only way to bring an end to this loop is to stop procrastinating. next time you find yourself putting off something for ‘later’, stop and assess the reasons behind it. get to the root of the cause and eliminate it in order to overcome this poor habit of procrastinating which is sabotaging your life and mental health. take a look at this guide and learn how to beat procrastination: advertising what is procrastination (and the complete guide to stop procrastinating) when you finally overcome procrastination, you will realize the positive impact it has on your mood and motivation levels. 3. celebrate small wins in the quest to achieve the bigger goals in life, we often forget to celebrate the smaller wins along the way. an achievement is an achievement – be it big or small, it deserves to be acknowledged and celebrated. finished a project on time? reward yourself. managed to run on the treadmill for a good one hour? pat yourself on the back. found time to meditate? celebrate it. it is these small achievements that reinstate that we are on the right path and take us one step closer to the bigger goals. so, get into the habit of recognizing and appreciating small wins. you will be surprised to see how this practice helps you stay motivated. 4. practice gratitude it’s easier to whine about what we don’t have rather than counting our blessings. isn’t it? making gratefulness a part of your life is a very important step to retain high motivational levels. it revitalizes our spirits and renews our enthusiasm for life. so, how do you practice gratitude? for starters, keep a gratitude journal to jot down what you are grateful for, express your gratitude to people you love and spread positivity wherever you go. if you need some inspiration to be thankful for, here it is: 60 things to be thankful for in life by doing so, you begin to focus more on what you have rather than what you don’t and that is a great start to stay motivated. advertising 5. be optimistic life is not always hunky dory. there will be bad days when things aren’t going in your favor, when you feel lost and all you want to do is give up. at such times, instead of letting negativity take over your life, adopt an optimistic approach to life. quit overthinking, ask the right questions and focus on finding solutions. yes, there will be hurdles along the way but if you hang on to positive affirmations and hopes, the journey will be a lot smoother. so, with every passing day, sow the seeds of positivity and you are sure to build a positive environment around you. 6. don’t dwell on the past a lot of times, our lack of motivation stems from the habit of dwelling on the past. this gives rise to fear and regrets, preventing us from making progress in the present day. dwelling on the past is nothing but a waste of time. understand that the past is long gone, and you cannot do anything to change that. what you can do is make your present day worthwhile. instead of looking back and having regrets, learn from your mistakes, forgive yourself and move on. so, the next time you find your mind wandering off to the past, be determined to change the way you think and consciously concentrate on living in the present. this guide can help you: 10 simple steps to let go of the past 7. face your fears you can never find motivation where there is fear. identify the fear that is pulling you back and tackle it. if you don’t face your fear head on, you cannot expect to conquer it and renew your motivation. ask yourself: what is stopping you? what are you scared of? advertising once you accept your fear, you can work on an action plan and think of solutions to overcome it. this article will give you some effective tips on conquering your fears: how to overcome your irrational fears (that stop you from succeeding) seek external help if required but don’t choose to turn a blind eye over your fears – it will only aggravate matters. 8. visualize your success you must have heard the famous quote, ‘see it to believe it’. that is exactly what visualization is about. one of the most effective self-motivation techniques, visualizing the process to your desired outcome helps you move in a positive direction and achieve your goal. close your eyes and focus all your energies on the minutest of details that will take you where you want to reach. doing this exercise everyday inspires you to keep going and not lose hope. the vision of attaining success will drive you to do better while instilling belief and confidence. 9. find inspiration can’t seem to find inspiration inwards? don’t panic. there are plenty of external sources to gain inspiration from. from motivational books and quotes to speeches, films and apps – it is a good idea to take help from motivational material to rekindle your spirits and regain your motivation. everyone is wired differently. for instance, a self-help book might work for your friend, but it might do nothing to move you. so, find what inspires you and turn to it when you are in desperate need for motivation. finding inspiration externally fills you with hope and sometimes that is all you need. 10. enjoy downtime you are clearly exhausted with all the running you’re doing in life. so much, that you don’t even have time to stop and think what’s causing you so much unhappiness. all you know is that you are lacking motivation and everyday seems to have become a struggle. advertising now, that’s certainly not how you should live the rest of your life. you need to schedule downtime for yourself, relax and give your mind and body some rest. take a vacation, indulge in hobbies, meet some friends, put your hair down and stop with all the overthinking. it is important to do things that make you happy in order to think clearly and stay motivated. 11. meditate regularly meditation lets you take control of your mind. it improves focus and concentration while helping you relax. whenever you have had a tough day or find your thoughts going places, the best way to calm yourself down is by closing your eyes and meditating. it helps you to remove all the unnecessary frills in life and keeps you on the right track. include meditation in your daily schedule and you are sure to see an improvement in your productivity and motivation. the bottom line practicing these simple exercises isn’t the tough part, what’s tough is religiously doing them every day. however, don’t expect to get rid of your lack of motivation overnight. there will still be days when you will be low on energy but by making these conscious efforts to stay motivated, you are sure to see a vast change in your perspective and your response to bad days. so, start today and be committed to making a positive change in your life. more tips about staying motivated how to get motivated and be happy every day when you wake up what motivates you and how to always stay motivated 9 types of motivation that make it possible to reach your dreams how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out featured photo credit: sonnie hiles via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 10 simple steps to let go of the past how a gratitude journal can drastically change your life how to find motivation when you’re totally burnt out advertising advertising more by this author adela belin writes about motivation, mental health, personal development and shares stories inspired by her personal journey. how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 11 ways to make living the dream life possible 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss 15 good podcasts to keep you motivated and reach your goals how do i change for the better? 11 little things to start doing advertising trending in communication 1 how to crush your lack of motivation and always stay motivated 2 how to find meaning in life: 9 simple ways 3 how to stay consistent and realize your dreams 4 how to find happiness in your everyday life 5 how to find inner peace and lasting happiness read next how to get motivated every day when you wake up 21 uplifting and powerful famous speeches that you can’t miss what is procrastination and how to stop it (the complete guide) how to fight your irrational fears and stay strong about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.