skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro top wordpress maintenance plugins to handle planned website downtime like a pro march 26, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 2 comments i’ve already discussed what causes unplanned downtime and what unplanned downtime might cost a business in a previous article. this post, on the other hand, looks at how you can tackle some planned downtime. planned downtime may be due to various reasons, such as routine maintenance, the new website under construction, and possibly even server migration. regarding planned downtime for wordpress websites, a lot of free options are at your disposal. many themes and wordpress maintenance plugins would allow you to convey to your reader or visitor that your website is temporarily down due to specific reasons. remember that if your website crashes or if your host’s servers aren’t operating, the solutions below won’t be of much help. these are just about putting up a front for your visitors while your developers make changes to your website. most solutions presented here will help create a new version of the website for public viewing. this will have a message to your visitor about your website being down due to maintenance or being under construction (like a coming soon page). the following are wordpress maintenance plugins that will help you deal with planned downtime. colorlib coming soon & maintenance mode (most popular) for a quick fix when it comes to creating creative and attention-grabbing coming soon and maintenance mode, we have our own plugin ready for you. first and foremost, it is entirely free of charge. secondly, it brings to the table many different options and features that will help you create the exact coming soon or maintenance mode page you want. this wordpress maintenance plugin comes ideal when you are busing working on a website redesign or if you would like to start the hype early. even if you are not live yet or under construction, you can still collect emails and presell your audience. coming soon & maintenance mode by colorlib works with any wordpress theme that you can find available on the market today. it also includes mailchimp integration, custom css area and a countdown timer. what’s more, you also get access to fifteen stunning ready-made templates that you can take to your full advantage. more info / download wp maintenance mode wp maintenance mode is very similar to the previous plugin, and it accommodates the need for maintenance pages and a coming soon page as well. it also works with wordpress multisite, which is a very handy feature. it has a great level of customizability and provides a countdown timer if you should need one. its responsive design works well with subscription and contact forms. a few useful seo options can help you during any downtime. more info / download coming soon page and maintenance mode seedprod’s plugin is a freemium plugin that offers a lot of choices and helps deal with coming soon pages & also create a facade for website maintenance. all the features this plugin offers are same as the ones offered by ultimate coming soon page. this particular plugin seems more like a re-branded version of john turner’s ultimate coming soon page plugin. also the plugin is likely just as good. more info / download underconstruction much like wpsoononlinepage, this plugin too seems to be a relatively simple to use plugin that delivers. it creates a coming soon page which is made visible to all users who are not logged in. more info / download cmp – coming soon & maintenance while cmp comes at no cost, it still delivers a whopping amount of premium-like features. this wordpress maintenance plugin is full of amazingness, ensuring you a fast creation of coming soon, maintenance and even other landing page style pages. indeed, a very versatile and practical tool. on top of that, it is easy to use, perfect for both newbie and advanced users. while it contains a bunch of predefined layouts to choose, you can also improve and adjust them however you see them fit your project best. in some instances, you might just want to add a logo while in all the others, you would want to fine-tune it further. as far as the features go, cmp offers full-screen backgrounds, mailchimp integration, any wordpress theme compatibility and 3d effects. besides, cmp is also 100% translatable so you can easily use it with your language. more info / download nifty coming soon if you would like to put together the niftiest coming soon and maintenance pages, well, as the name suggests, nifty coming soon will be the right option for you. first and foremost, the plugin is entirely free of charge, yet the features are very many, delivering an almost premium-like experience. if is free it does not really mean it is half-baked or whatever. no matter which tool you choose from this collection, you get a chance to create a striking outcome. core features of nifty coming soon wordpress maintenance plugin are responsive and clean design, sixteen background slider animations, countdown timer and animated coming soon text. moreover, all the sections are fully editable for you to fine-tune your look according to your needs. there is also a preloader, a subscription form and an options to turn off or on any section. more info / download coming soon by supsystic needless to say, once you download and activate coming soon by supsystic wordpress plugin, you get a chance to create a killer coming soon page in a snap. thanks to the drag and drop method and several predesigned templates, you will have the desired page up and running in little to no time. you can now show your users and visitors that your website is in the maintenance mode or under construction, bringing something fresh to the world. the final layout will, of course, be mobile-ready, cross-browser compatible and high performing. the web design is ready for any modifications you would like to perform. add a subscription form and let everyone know when you are coming back with a countdown timer. coming soon by supsystic also acclimatizes to any modern wordpress theme and fully supports multisite installs. more info / download site offline site offline is an excellent wordpress maintenance mode with an option to choose between free or pro version. by all means, start with the free tool first and get the gist of it. who knows, it may just happen that what you find it offering is more than enough for your short downtime. or even if you are just about to launch your new project and you would like to start the hype a few days early, site offline free plugin might be more than enough. now let’s speak about the features. site offline is retina-friendly, powered by bootstrap framework and becomes visible with just one click. additionally, you will find css3 animations, countdown timer, logo customization, four social profiles and an option to add a background image. also, setting and configuring site offline to your likings will be kids’ stuff. more info / download coming soon wp when you have stuff to do on your website that will make you need to take it offline, you don’t just disappear from the online existence. instead, you go in the under construction or maintenance mode. you keep your presence alive, letting everyone know that you are coming back with something big. coming soon wp is a simple to use wordpress maintenance mode that will help you get things done even if you are not tech-savvy. upon installation, you turn it on with a click and already be able to put it into play. it comes with many fantastic features and functions that will help you create a brandable coming soon page. in short, you can customize and alter pretty much everything, so do not hesitate and hammer out a layout that will follow your regulations to a t. more info / download minimal coming soon and maintenance mode a plugin that offers solutions for both websites under construction and a website undergoing maintenance. it is a rather minimal plugin, simple to use and offers a great deal of customization to the user. the plugin works well with top caching plugins, you can change the page template’s background, the fonts used, the cover image and more. the page elements can be arranged as per your discretion. to enhance the options you have, custom css and html can be added to modify the plugin. the coming soon page is visible only to non logged in users and the search engines can be allowed to view the website normally. the level of customization the plugin lends is pretty impressive for a free plugin. more info / download coming soon and maintenance mode if you are working on your website to make it better, faster and more appealing to the industry, use a free wordpress maintenance plugin. with the tool, you can now showcase your users that you are working on something big. instead of building an entire coming soon or under construction page from scratch, you can now save yourself heaps of time with coming soon and maintenance mode. it is a plugin that you will find a little breeze to use, even as an individual who is not really tech-savvy. first and foremost, the plugin works flawlessly with all modern wordpress themes, calling for excellent integration. moreover, the final design will be 100% responsive and cross-browser compatible, working on all devices and platforms without a hitch. some other goodies include seo friendliness, social media integration, background image and an option to disable the plugin for specific ips. more info / download wp maintenance whether you are redesigning your existing website or establishing a new one, with wp maintenance plugin you can start the hype early or let everyone know that you are in the process of a rebuild. this wordpress maintenance plugin comes with all the necessary to help you sort out an under construction or coming soon section swiftly. without really needing to know how to code, you can now get the maintenance mode going with ease, thanks to wp maintenance. needless to say, you can entirely style the page, so it fits your style ideally. you can create a slider, add a countdown timer, upload a logo, enrich it with a background picture or pattern, you name it! it also integrates with social media networks and google analytics. last but not least, you can even insert a newsletter subscription or contact form. more info / download rocket maintenance mode rocket maintenance mode is another superb alternative when in search of the best free wordpress maintenance plugin. this extension will help you get the job done without you breaking a single drop of sweat. you only need to configure the settings, and you can go live with a maintenance mode already. as simple as that. actually, it will take you just a few clicks. moreover, rocket maintenance mode is excellent for utter beginners, as well as experienced web developers. moreover, there are plenty of features and functions that you can take to your total advantage. customize the title, change heading and sub-heading, add a countdown timer, include clickable social media buttons and upload your logo. in short, you can tailor the maintenance mode page, so it fits your branding and website theme. more info / download maintenance a plugin best suited to help web masters deal with websites under maintenance. you can create a 503 service not available and create a temporary page which can be easily edited from the plugin’s settings. the background, the logo in use, the title, headline and pretty much everything else can be modified. you can also selectively exclude pages on which site functions as normal. the premium version of the plugin also for more customization with regards to the background, the user permissions and the countdown clock. more info / download igniteup – coming soon and maintenance mode i like this particular plugin a lot, not only does it have a simple intuitive and modern interface but the background options freely available are easily a cut above the other plugins i’ve so far discussed. just have a look at the screenshot below, four templates freely available with the plugin. you can easily enable and disable the plugin’s coming soon or offline mode and select an appropriate template for your website. search engine optimization is an often overlooked aspect, the plugin also makes available enabling 503 header. add custom css and your own favicon. the logo, the background colors, the text attributes, links, social media profiles, subscription forms can all be modified from the plugin’s settings page. it also offers compatibility with mailpoet and mailchimp plugins. overall, this is an awesome plugin. more info / download final thoughts the last plugin of my round up -“igniteup – coming soon and maintenance mode” is definitely my pick of the lot. i found it pretty darn difficult and tiresome to get the coming soon pages or the maintenance pages up and running on most of the wordpress maintenance plugins. why ? because creating a coming soon page or a site under maintenance page is pretty difficult for someone who isn’t an expert on web design. with igniteup’s plugin however i never had any such difficulty. plugins from easy pie, obox and seed prod also offer a few options in the way of ready made templates, but personally preference lies overwhelmingly with igniteup’s plugin 🙂 i’d love to hear your thoughts in the comments below! if you’d rather use a wp theme to tackle planned downtime, we’ve got that covered too. do check out aigar’s write up on top 20 coming soon themes for wordpress. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. coming soondowntimefree pluginsmaintenanceplanned downtimepluginsunder constructionwordpresswordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts top 10 wordpress email subscription plugins if you are an online entrepreneur, you probably know the importance of newsletter to your… top 17 wordpress instagram plugins 2020 marketing on social media has taken off in a big way, and instagram is among… 30+ best free woocommerce plugins for wordpress 2020 woocommerce is a free plugin that teams up nicely with wordpress to help you sell… the best wordpress media library management plugins 2020 nowadays, very few websites contain only text. a fair amount of screen space is devoted… awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii woocommerce is a popular platform for building and running an online store. it comes with… top 23 jquery animation library and plugins 2020 where would the web be right now if it weren't for the immense technological breakthroughs… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best wordpress plugins for mailchimp integration 2020 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the best 18 wordpress autoblogging plugins 2020 next post: 17 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×