skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 20 adsense plugins for wordpress to maximize revenue 2020 top 20 adsense plugins for wordpress to maximize revenue 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 5 comments google adsense will always remain as a safe option for generating extra income with your blog or website. starting out as a blogger means that you will want to pursue your career options a little further, it’s likely that you will be interested in gaining financial satisfaction in return for your dedicated efforts, this is a natural side-effect for anyone who has blogged long enough to consider start making money with their content. a choice that in itself requires a lot of patience, and determination to accomplish the task. while others fall for the trap of producing cheap content without a content strategy, and thinking that adding some adsense ads to their pages is going to bring home big money. it used to work like that in the past, but not any longer, unfortunately. signing up as a publisher on google adsense is an easy process, all you really need to do is proofread your own website for any common design flaws, and don’t forget to post at least 30 unique articles before you apply too, real people verify each of the adsense applications, the more presentable your site, the easier is going to be the approval process. you need to write the content for real people, not search engines. you don’t want to create a site that looks like it is just another content farm, a little bit of love and soul into a project can make the big difference for your monthly earnings. to start earning, you need to get an approval. at this point, you can start building custom ads that you can insert in your blogs design. hmm, insert? yes, a little snippet of ads code that you can place in your widgetized areas, content areas, headers, footers, and other custom placements. you can do this in two different ways: editing the source code of important theme files directly, or use a third-party wp plugin that’s meant to help you with adding ads to your website, and frankly — there are many choices for these. each has something unique to offer, but ultimately all want to help you with adding adsense in those website spots that you really want to have them in. you should also look into these two bad boys: google adsense optimized wordpress themes, and best seo friendly wordpress themes. both choices will be excellent for blogs that want to earn a little money on the side from platforms like adsense! quick adsense if you are in a rush, adding adsense monetization to your website, well, as the name suggests, quick adsense is the plugin you should consider. it makes the process of attaching advertisements to your website or blog quick and easy. with this tool, you can place ads all across your website, from sidebars to posts and then some. as for the blog posts, you can feature randomized adsense what might positively affect your revenue. for instance, if a loyal reader visits your website for the tenth time, chances are low they will click on the same ad again. by placing adsense to your posts randomly, we have a completely different story. with quick adsense, you have quite a bunch of different options where you would like to place ads. moreover, the settings section is user-friendly so everyone gets the most out of quick adsense. you can also disable ads on the fly and add up to ten advertisements on a page or post. download google adsense in-feed if you are already rocking the outstanding advanced ads plugin, you better boost its performance with google adsense in-feed. hence the name, you can now effortlessly place ads anywhere in between your post’s content, as well as on your index page and archives. in fact, there are many more options on how to utilize google adsense in-feed wordpress plugin. one thing is for sure, using and practicing different position variations is easy as pie. that said, anyone can start monetizing their websites without hassle. google adsense in-feed has full support for all types of adsense ads even auto ads. moreover, it fully supports amp and caching plugins and shows an alternative ad to those folks who use an ad blocker. there are numerous different ways how to get the most out of your blog and google adsense is one of the easiest. download easy google adsense easy google adsense is another wordpress plugin that will help you put advertisements on your page in a snap of a finger. bear in mind, this particular plugin mainly focuses on google adsense auto ads. never heard of these before? it is pretty simple even to someone who is entirely new placing ads on his or her blog. instead of figuring out what advertisements to use on your website, adsense does the hard work for you. auto ads investigate your web space and aim to show only the most relevant ads at the most appropriate time. as far as the set up goes, there is not much work necessary to start banking. first, install and activate easy google adsense plugin. and second, add your google adsense publisher id and you are ready to roll. from then on, let the skilfull google do all the work for you, managing and optimizing advertisement. download google adsense ads manager when you are just starting out, you can avoid adding advertisements to your page altogether. however, once you start making traction and you see your traffic gradually grow, start brainstorming website monetization. to make your lives a whole lot simpler, go with google adsense ads manager. this wordpress adsense plugin lets you put, well, adsense to your page without a hitch. in barely any time, you can already start seeing some results thanks to the implementation of adsense. the use of google adsense ads manager plugin is no rocket science. anyone can do it. the settings are simple and easy to understand. it gives you an option to set preferred alignment and specify conditions. google adsense ads manager supports left, right and center positions and can place ads on home, page, post or all of them. download google adsense dashboard while the majority of wordpress adsense plugin that you find in this collection focus on monetization only, google adsense dashboard provides the necessary statistics. it gives a detailed overview of the performance of your google adsense ads that you are about to put to your website or blog. that said, you do not need to enter the platform each time to see how much you earned, what is your cpm and ctr. with google adsense dashboard, you can do it all from the comfort of your wordpress admin. core features of google adsense dashboard are complete stats, date range selection and custom channels performance. it also improves loading speed due to the caching system and allows you to translate it. to have a better understanding of how your google adsense ads are doing, you do not need to leave your website ever again. download ads for wp ads for wp is a versatile and practical wordpress plugin that offers you multiple options when it comes to monetizing your website. along with the support for google adsense, you can also sport other advertisements on your page with ease. the features are there, you just need to take them to your full advantage and start getting the most out of your website. all the hard work will eventually pay off and one of the quickest and easiest solutions is to use google adsense. ads for wp plugin supports ad blockers, provides reports and insights and works flawlessly with amp. other features of the tool are widget, shortcode, no limit to how many ads you would like to display and easy display on different locations of your pages and posts. you can also mix adsense ads with other platforms and see which performs better. download adrotate banner manager if you are looking for a versatile, adaptive and easy to use banner ads manager, adrotate is what you need. of course, if you are planning to introduce google adsense to your website, you can make it happen with adrotate, too. with the wordpress plugin, you can place advertisements anywhere on your website. they could be of standard sizes or custom, from 3rd-party platforms or your own. indeed, adrotate has loads of different options and possibilities to turn your website into a money machine. some of the goodies that you get with adrotate are automatic rotation, geo targeting, email notification and randomized banner selection. you can also put on display multiple ads at the same time in a grid, column or row layout. needless to say, whatever you can think of when it comes to banner ads, you can realize with adrotate. download wp quads – quick adsense reloaded quick adsense was at one point the most famous adsense plugin on the market, but the support was discontinued, and now a new developer has taken it upon himself to maintain a fork of quick adsense. although the old plugin still technically functions, there haven’t been any new developments made to it, which means that out of the 100k+ people that use it, many could run into problems when wordpress pushes a legacy update that could potentially break ads appearing on their blogs. with wp quads you can import your old quick adsense settings and continue with the same settings that you already love and use. the developers improved and increased the performance with a thorough code optimization. download wp simple adsense insertion bloggers each have their own demands and aspirations for the way they want to use ads on their blogs, and it makes sense — not everyone wants to overbloat their content with adertisements, sometimes a carefully planned and placed advertisement can yield as big of a ctr as 10 ads combined, so it all comes down to the way your blog and content are designed, and how you can best compliment that with an advertisement block. simple adsense focuses on shortcodes/functions that you can manually place within your wordpress content. having a lot of settings to tinker with can be quite overwhelming, and needless to say that google ads manager provides all the customization tools that you would need anyway. download adsense in-post ads the most popular adsense placement position is always going to be the actual content body. your readers spend most of their time on the content page, and if you can manage to place an advertisement in the middle of an article, that is a great opportunity to generate some revenue based on reader interest, and advertisement value. the plugin will give you shortcodes based on your ad-types and allow you to put them directly into your wordpress pages and wordpress posts. few thousand bloggers are already generating great revenue using this exact plugin. download woody ad snippets woody ad snippets is a versatile and highly practical free wordpress plugin when you find in the situation of adding ads to your website or blog. even when it comes to adsense. you can employ woody ad snippets for inserting a custom code pretty much anywhere on the page you want. for instance, header, footer and content area. once you set things up, you can then manually copy and paste the shortcode inside your posts and pages. however, woody ad snippets can do it automatically for you, too. moreover, even if you happen to be no coder, woody ad snippets comes with a user-friendly code manager that will help everyone get it done in a little breeze. with all the great extra options, you can also use woody ad snippets for inserting other codes, tracking and similar to your website, not just focusing on ads. download site kit by google if you would like to have a full-blown control of your website’s performance from your admin dashboard, let site kit by google do the trick. this sophisticated and easy to use free wordpress plugin integrates google’s mandatory tools. you can now connect your page with search console, analytics, adsense, pagespeed, tag manager and optimize. you can now profit from all of these from one location – your wordpress admin. thanks to the easy integration and quick setup processes, you can begin tracking your website’s performance almost immediately. as far as adsense goes, with site kit by google, you can track precisely how much your website or blog is earning you on a day-to-day basis. find out which days are the best and which days the worst and try and optimize accordingly. have the performance of your site under complete control once and for all. download adsense widget if you are looking for the simplest way of inserting google adsense to your website or blog, adsense widget will do the trick for sure. this free wordpress plugin was designed and developed to be as easy as pie, yet it guarantees to do the magic. in other words, with a simple widget or shortcode, you can now add advertisements to your website in a matter of a few clicks. you can also choose from the ad format that you fancy and enjoy seeing your earnings grow and grow. of course, adsense widget also ensures that the ads are fully responsive, displaying beautifully on mobile and desktop devices. as for ad formats, you get to choose from display, in-feed, in-article, matched content or link only. with all the other configurations, you can quickly set things up and tailor the adsense ad, so it meets your expectations precisely. download ad inserter we are focusing here on the best adsense plugins for wordpress bloggers, but it helps to have a little bit of variety in such a list, which is the position we feel ad inserter fills out beautifully. ad inserter will definitely help you add adsense to your wordpress content, but it will also help with adding any other kind of advertisements through the clever use of coding. though, we do want to let our readers know — majority of the plugins we have seen already, use a html input box form where you can insert the html code of your adsense ad block, but this also means that you can literally add any html code in these input boxes, since most plugins won’t check for it. ad inserter also focuses on adding adds within content pargraphs, to increse and maximize engagement rates. download wp-insert so many adsense plugins with the word “insert” in them.. here’s another one: wp-insert. a highly optimized and powerful solution for addings google advertisement codes to your blog. 30k+ active installs can’t be wrong. a great use of an algorithm that pinpoints content length and position, allows you to insert ads in whichever part of your content you wish. including all four directions; top, bottom, left, and right. though, the list of features keeps going on: lets you publish google analytics code, lets you add custom javascript code to footer/header parts of the blog, gives you freedom of style over all of your ads that you are inserting, automatically adds any legally required pages to your blog, you can a/b test the performance of different ads and ad types, and you can even geo-target particular ads for specific locations; very neat little feature that you can use to target specific countries to maximize your earnings — there had to be a reason that 30k+ people use this great plugin, and now you have one too. download advanced ads what we got here is an ultimate ads management solution for wordpress usrs. advanced ads is compatible with all ad networks and banners from affiliate programs like google adsense, chitika, clickbank, amazon, and also google doubleclick (dfp). you can also use it to insert additional ad network tags into header or footer of your site without additional coding. the plugin supports ad types, ad management, ad display managment, advanced advertisement placement, ads display mangement, specific targeting features for ads, has mobile support, lets you analyze and track your ads performance. download premium plugins for inserting adsense into wordpress we now have a more clear understanding of the kind of adsense placements we can do on our wordpress blogs. but also, a clearer picture when it comes to the tools that we can use to achieve the end-result. we will close the roundup with great selections from a paid marketplace that deals with publishing modern wordpress plugins. of course, we offer off of them at great costs for anyone who is interested. ads pro – multi-purpose wordpress ad manager say hello to ads pro — a full advertising management platform for wordpress blogs. ads pro lets you sell, manage, and display ads on your blog. you can do it directly from the admin dashboard once you install the plugin. the plugin author claims this to be a unique ads management experience. no other plugin will be able to match his work. the plugin has in-built template system to create appealing ads matches based on algorithmic results. you can display your advertisements in more than twenty ways using ads pro! it’s fully responsive so mobile users will be able to experience scaled down ads. you don’t need to stretch your mobile screen so much to do this. ads pro allows geo-targeting for displaying niche ads to specific countries or cities. you can start selling ads and schedule their appearance on the blog. this really maximizes your potential of earning trust as a reputable ads seller on your blog. moreover, you can even select devices to show certain ads to, very neat code used to achieve this. you can enable a feature so that ads would appear/disappear after a certain time period, useful for deals. but most of all, you have access to twenty five pre-built ads templates. these templates can help you maximize your earnings potential instantly. download easy plugin for adsense pro we mentioned the little brother of easy plugin earlier in the roundup. it’s the lite version of what now appears to be a pro version. the pro version has many great benefits. it has a google policy enforcement, sidebar widgets for ads, flexible settings, custom ads positioning and it’s multilingual. it also has a great documentation for each of the plugin settings and an automatic tour of every important feature. the developers also made it to filter content to ensure you don’t get banned from adsense. moreover, it automatically deals with any compatability issues that are related to themes and .supports mobile and tablet devices. furthermore, it lets you briefly pause ads if necessary. download pro google adsense tools plugin for wordpress pro google adsense tools plugin will get your adsense ads fast as far as revenue and performance is concerned. the plugin asks of you to authenticate your adsense account through oauth. this can let you start selecting your pre-built ads right away. download wordpress ad-manager the blogging journey is amazing. from learning how to create content, to reaching a point where you feel comfortable with earning extra income from what you have already published, and plan to publish in the future. it’s a wonderful feeling when the ads money starts to roll in and you feel a sense of accomplishment. the gratitude washes over you for being able to be financially rewarded for the effort you’ve put into your blog. the wordpress ad-manager plugin really believes in this concept. and so, supports bloggers with helping them establish a solid advertising foundation on their blogs. these blogs has custom ads management options, and a general aio ads plugin for multi-purpose use. download adsense plugins for wordpress have you started earning from your blog already? we’d love to hear about your personal stories of how you went from being a blogging noob; to becoming someone who people look up to as an expert in their particular field? did advertising in any way influence the way you blog, and did it at any point encourage you to reach for the ultimate goal which is financial freedom? if you haven’t gotten quite there yet, we sure hope that the adsense plugins and general ads manager plugins that we did mention here, will help you move a step closer to all those aspiring goals. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. adsensegoogle share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts 17 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020 here you will find all the best wordpress search plugins for your website to replace… best free plugins to build custom registration form in wordpress white labeling your wordpress site gives your brand a significant uplift when it comes to… top 17 wordpress plugins for monetizing a blog 2020 advertising techniques continue to grow in diversity as bloggers find new ways to earn money… 15 nifty bbpress plugin add-ons for wordpress forums 2019 all websites that are present on the internet have one common goal - they wish for… awesome ad banner management plugins for your wordpress monetizing is a big part of website management. while some bloggers keep their sites ad-free… top 15 review plugins for wordpress with schema markup 2020 online reviews have become one of the biggest monopolies of the modern technology era. the… this post has 5 comments marcel woick says: at you advertise an adsense plugin (adsense from google itself) that is been announced to be disabled 2017 as top plugin and no new creator can use after 03.2017? not the kind of information i wanted. reply aigars says: at marcel, we are aware of it and we will update the post once the official google adsense plugin will be discontinued. reply reader says: at well, obviously not =) reply namith jawahar says: at happy to see wp-insert in the list (i am the author). if anyone reading this has any interesting feature / improvement suggestion for the plugin do drop me a line. reply gentlysallim says: at i was looking for other plug-ins because i didn’t have enough of the ad-inter alone, but i found this post. thank you. reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 13 best free wordpress pagination plugins for 2020 next post: 18 paid wordpress affiliate plugins for business growth 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×