skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about top 19 best google adsense alternatives 2020 by jamie google adsense has been the number one choice for bloggers wanting to make money from their blogs for many years. but there are many excellent reasons to look for google adsense alternatives. maybe you already have an adsense account; you’re looking for alternatives because you’d like to keep your website income diversified, or because you’d like to add some additional income streams. perhaps you’re looking for ways to earn more money from your ad space than you would be able to earn with adsense. in my experience, this is totally possible with the alternatives i’m suggesting. perhaps you’ve had a hard time getting approved for an adsense account, or maybe you had an adsense account that got banned. whatever your reasons, you’ll be happy to know that there are plenty of fantastic options available for you to consider to help you make money online with your blog or website. we invite you to check out these ten viable, lucrative adsense alternatives. please note that google adsense is a contextual ad networking program, as well as display network ads. a few of the adsense alternatives that i have mentioned below are not contextual ad programs. why switch to an adsense alternative? so, why would a site owner want to go with a different network than adsense? at face value, google has a nice platform set up. there are no minimum traffic requirements to meet. plus, google is one of the biggest names in technology and advertising. so, what’s not to like about it? with any surge of popularity, issues are bound to pop up. while google is one of the best cpc marketing tools in the business, it’s not smooth sailing for everyone. even before you sign up for adsense, you could encounter problems. despite its lax traffic requirements, google can reject site applications for a variety of reasons. bloggers have been declined for not having enough content or having content that’s not “advertiser-friendly.” if you’re familiar with google’s recent “ad-pocalyse,” you know that the company is very serious about working with advertiser-friendly content creators. truth is, getting approved for adsense has only gotten more difficult. once you get approved for an adsense account, you also have to be careful about following strict rules and regulations. google has been known to ban sites from the pay-per-click advertising platform regularly. not only does it happen often, but it seems like the network is doing so for arbitrary reasons. sites have been banned for something as simple as clicking on an ad on their own site. google monitors sites. make one mistake and you’re at risk of being banned. to make matters worse, that ban lasts indefinitely. while there is an appeals process, it’s a long shot. finally, google adsense isn’t very designer-friendly. oftentimes, you must make major design changes to conform to google’s rules. if you don’t, your site can end up looking like a clunky mess with major performance issues. this is particularly true with contextual ads, which is one of adsense’s biggest draws. ultimately, google adsense can be a very frustrating platform to work with. while it has a lot of good things to offer, the drawbacks are far too big to ignore. we’re not saying that adsense is a bad platform by any means. but, it’s worth considering the alternatives to see what other income-producing options are available to you. here’s our list of the best google adsense alternatives top 5 quick list #1 adsterra #2 media.net #3 ezioc #4 sovrn #5 skimlinks #6 propellerads 1. adsterra adsterra is a slick advertising network with innovative ad formats and growing number of large brands using the platform. it’s a platform that i feel is the best google adsense alternative. it’s the fastest growing ad network and a well respected brand in the online advertising space. adsterra provides an excellent solutions for both publishers and advertisers who want to try something a little different and away from the grasps of google. monetization of traffic is easy with adsterra as the provide a user-friendly platform and give publishers a 100% fill rate along with industry’s highest cpm. all ads are put through a proprietary fraud detection system. this ensures that you and your site are protected from malware. using the platform is easy. all you have to do is put code on your website and manage campaigns through a user-friendly control panel. here’s some stats on why adsterra is a serious contender as the best alternative to google adsense. they serve 10 billion+ ad impressions per month. they cover over 190 countries currently it has 20k active ad campaigns. 600k leads last month publishers and advertisers get their very own account manager who is always on call to help pros: – dedicated account managers available – wide variety of ad types, including pop-unders – covers hundreds of geographic locations – over 10 billion ad impressions a month – numerous payment methods cons: – must have a custom domain – high payout minimum for bank transfers – cpm for display ads and videos not as competitive – not the best for low-volume sites payment details: two payments every 15 days payout options include paypal, payza, bitcoin, webmoney, paxum, skrill, and epayments for epayments, paxum, and webmoney, the payout threshold is $5 for paypal and bitcoin, the payout threshold is $100 for wire transfers, the payout threshold is $1,000 sign up to adsterra #2 media.net media.net is another big-name ad network brand that specializes in contextual ads. the network also handles display ads and native ads. it’s a direct competitor to google adsense. the network does pay-per-click advertising operated by the yahoo!/bing network. the great thing about media.net is that the platform has several customization tools. you can change the overall design and color scheme to fit your ad space. there’s also a powerful dashboard to keep track of analytics. pros: user-friendly dashboard flexible ad options good customer support pays monthly cons: doesn’t update ad revenue in real-time can only have web traffic from us, uk, and canada visitors must double-click ads payment details: net30 payment schedule payout options include paypal and wire transfer payment threshold is $1,000 sign up to media.net #3 ezoic ezoic is a publisher-focused network that offers many benefits. it has some powerful tools that can help you reach your full monetization potential. these include a layout tester, ad tester, and site speed calculator. a feature-rich analytics tool is included as well to give you more insight into ad performance. the network is easy to integrate into your site. it works with everything from wordpress to cloudflare cdn, so you shouldn’t have an issue getting started. there’s even a flexible privacy and consent system to meet gdpr or ccpa compliance. pros: user-friendly dashboard advanced analytics and management tools good privacy and security features google amp converter for mobile sites low payout minimum excellent affiliate program cons: site must comply with google’s policies payment details: net30 payment schedule payout options include check, direct bank deposit, wire transfers, payoneer, and paypal payment threshold is only $20 #4. meridian at sovrn.com sovrn is a bit of a unique adsense alternative. the company offers several ads for publishers to use. it’s a cpm network. this means that sovrn will pay you for how many expressions the ad makes rather than the number of clicks it leads to. the network only accepts publishers on an invite-only basis. on the plus side, there aren’t any strict traffic requirements involved. there’s also a backfill feature, which allows you to display alternative ads whenever sovrn doesn’t have one to place for you. you can even use adsense as your backfill. pros: cpm network works alongside adsense server-to-server bidding detailed analytics cons: low cpm rates for non-us traffic does support cpc or affiliate campaigns payment details: net30 payment schedule payment options include check, paypal, ach, echeck, and wire transfer payment threshold is $25 regardless of method #5. skimlinks skimlinks is a network that focuses primarily on affiliate marketing. whether you’re an amazon affiliate or work with another program, skimlinks has you covered. the company partners with more than 50 networks, giving you access to more than 48,000 e-commerce merchants. once you install the javascript code onto your site, existing links will automatically be turned into affiliate links to start earning revenue. pros: many affiliate programs available seamlessly integrates into site robust analytics tools available toolbar extension low payout threshold cons: doesn’t offer traditional display ads limited customer support high fees payment details: 30-day payout schedule, though some commissions can take longer payout options include check, direct bank deposit, or paypal payment threshold is only $10 sign up to skimlinks #6 – propellerads propellerads offers plenty of ways to monetize your blog. you can choose any type of ad you want. however, the platform does particularly well with pop-under ads. getting accepted into the network isn’t too difficult, but they do prioritize sites that deal with technology and digital media. the cool thing about propellerads is that you can also monetize mobile sites and apps. optimization tools are plentiful, making it easy to get the most out of the network. pros: many ad formats available large publisher community technology to bypass adblock can be used alongside adsense cons: lower cpms no header bidding payment details: 30-day payout schedule payout options include paypal, payoneer, and wire transfer payment thresholds are $50 for paypal, $100 for payoneer, and $500 for wire transfer sign up to propeller ads #7. oio publisher oio publisher is a wordpress plugin that allows you to monetize your website by managing your own ads. it’s easy to use, although the setup process is lengthy. once it’s set up, the plugin automates many aspects involved in the process of selling ads on your site. however, you will still have to recruit advertisers. there is an oio ad marketplace available to help you with advertiser recruitment. the marketplace may bring you advertisers from time to time, but you can’t count on it to fill up your ad space. you’ll have to make an effort to reach out to advertisers on your own. if you’re a motivated salesperson, and your blog or website is attractive to advertisers, this tool offers many advantages that make it an excellent adsense alternative. you receive upfront payment from advertisers, without having to wait for payouts. you won’t have to share any of your earnings with a network. you don’t risk getting banned or having your earnings reversed. you can negotiate directly with your advertisers, and form relationships with them. there is an upfront cost for oio publisher. for motivated publishers, we think this tool is well worth the price considering the great value you get in exchange. oio publisher also offers an affiliate program. #8 – infolinks infolinks is one of the leading in-text advertising platforms. it automatically indexes your site and looks for appropriate keywords to display ads. in addition to in-text ads, the platform offers up display ads for your sidebar and expandable ads that can go in your content. the network has a decent administrative tool to give you analytics about traffic and ad performance. it’s where you’ll manage your monetization efforts and take control of how ads affect your site. pros: in-text ads good administrative tool easy to integrate into a site can be used alongside adsense cons: doesn’t have as much ad variety ads can be clunky on some devices long payout schedule payment details: 45-day payout schedule payout options include paypal, payoneer, western union, ach bank transfer, and echeck payment threshold is $50 for bank transfers and $100 for western union #9. viglink if you build ordinary links to qualifying products on your website, viglink converts them into affiliate links you can earn money from. they maintain relationships with merchants. in exchange for their services, they keep a percentage of your commissions and then pay you the rest. depending on the viglink service you use, they may keep either 25% or an undisclosed percentage of your earnings. viglinks is great for affiliate marketers. if you already supply links to products on your site, viglinks will automatically convert them to affiliate links if it’s available. the process is automatic, saving you tons of time. the network does have a bit of a confusing setup, but the helpful customer support specialists are on standby to help you get set up. pros: free to use solid commission rates many merchants available doesn’t affect the user experience of visitors cons: can be difficult to set up takes longer to get paid payment details: 60-day payout schedule payout options are limited to paypal payment threshold is only $10 #10 – adversal if you have a decent amount of traffic every month, adversal is a great alternative ad network to adsense. the company does have a strict traffic requirement. if you don’t get at least 50,000 visitors a month, you will be rejected. the good news is that other than that, it’s quick and easy to sign up. adversal offers many banner ad sizes and a few other discrete marketing options. the network even does affiliate marketing. pros: quick signup process low payout easy to use cons: not as many ad formats will not accept low-volume sites payment details: 65-day payout schedule payout options are paypal, ach, and wire transfer payment threshold is only $20 #11 – adblade adblade has a pretty solid reputation among webmasters and advertisers. the company implements several security features throughout to protect your site. they work with reputable brands, so you don’t have to worry about inappropriate marketing materials showing up on your site. native ads are this network’s bread and butter. related posts and aesthetically pleasing thumbnails are used to market products and services. this helps to keep the ads clean and unobtrusive. pros: native shopping ads and simple display ad units good security features powerful reporting tools good customer support self-serve platform cons: lower cpc and cpm high payment threshold payment details: net30 payment schedule payout options are paypal, check, direct deposit, and wire transfers payment threshold is $100 #12 – amazon display ads while amazon is known for doing the advertising, the company also has a decent network to help publishers. amazon display ads allow you to implement native ads and display ads on your blog. they can show specific products and provide a direct link to a trusted e-commerce platform. currently, the platform is best for sites with us and eu-based visitors. pros: native and display ads trusted merchant customization tools good customer support self-serve platform cons: lower click-through rate limited advertising opportunities long wait time for payment payment details: pays up to 60 days after the calendar month if you are interested in learning more then check my guide to building your own amazon affiliate website. #13 – advertising.com advertising.com is a part of verizon. it works with some high-profile advertisers and offers a lot of great tools for publishers. you can choose from a wide range of ad formats and use powerful analytics features to maximize monetization potential. pros: low payment threshold multiple ad types available easy-to-use tools and dashboard low payment threshold cons: long approval process hard to get information before applying payment details: 30-day payout schedule payout options include paypal, direct deposit, and check payment threshold is only $25 #14 – revcontent if you’re lucky enough to get accepted into revcontent, you can take advantage of many tools. the platform is notoriously competitive and focuses on building a network of high-quality sites rather than accepting just anyone. the good news is that publishers tend to get higher rates. plus, the customer support is very impressive. the network offers a feature-rich administrative panel as well as in-depth reporting. currently, revcontent does display ads, mobile ads, and video ads. pros: good rates user-friendly control panel several ad formats available customizable widgets works with high-paying advertisers cons: strict acceptance guidelines won’t accept sites with low traffic limited payout options payment details: 30-day payout schedule payout options limited to paypal payment threshold is $50 #15 – revenuehits revenuehits is relatively new to the industry, but the network is already getting a lot of attention due to its innovative technology. the company offers contextual and geo-based ads. there’s also a wide range of display-based ads, such as pop-unders, widgets, buttons, and more. the network does its best to help your site reach its potential. there are some useful educational tools that help you understand the analytics and make the necessary changes to succeed. pros: wide range of ad types lax application requirements simple dashboard doesn’t charge payout fees cons: no video ads pays per action, not impressions doesn’t update analytics in real-time payment details: net30 payout schedule payout options include paypay, payoneer, and wire transfer payment threshold is $20 for paypal and payoneer, $500 for wire transfers #16 – prosperent prosperent is an affiliate offering other publishers the opportunity to become sub-affiliates under their account. they keep 30% of commissions for small publishers, and 20% for larger publishers. in exchange, they maintain the relationships with merchants. they also offer their publishers tools and resources that can help to simplify the process of affiliate marketing. payment details: they pay publishers on a net-30 day basis. payment is by payoneer or paypal. #17 – blogher.com blogher is a cpm ad network. their specialty is monetizing blogs targeted at a female audience. in addition to advertising, they also offer publishers additional opportunities such as sponsored posts and paid product reviews. payment details: they pay publishers 45 days after a the month ends. the payment threshold is $20. payment is by paypal. #18 – adcash adcash is a network that covers locations all over the world. while other networks will only work if you have a us-based audience, that’s not the case with adcash. this can help you increase your income significantly. the ad network offers many different ad-types. they even have anti-adblock technology. you can easily integrate adcash into your site in just a few minutes. thanks to the well-designed control panel, managing your ads and viewing statistics is a breeze. pros: great ad variety real-time statistics anti-adblock technology good customer support transparent pricing cons: pays per action, not impressions doesn’t update analytics in real-time payment details: monthly payout schedule payout options include bank transfer, paypal, payoneer, skrill, webmoney, and bitcoin payment threshold is $25 #19 – bidvertiser.com if you’re looking to create multiple revenue streams, bidvertiser may be for you. the platform pays you for conversions and clicks. several bonus opportunities and a referral program are available as well, giving you plenty of opportunities to earn. high page views are key to success on bidvertiser. advertisers can bid to get on your site. this can lead to higher rates. there are some caveats to this bidding feature. for one, it sometimes means visitors will get an irrelevant ad. also, you must be popular enough to get noticed by advertisers before they start bidding for your site. pros: pays for clicks and conversions advertisers bid for ad space customization features referral program analytics tools cons: rates aren’t the best doesn’t always provide relevant ads to your site must be established to benefit from bidding payment details: net30 payment schedule payment options include check and paypal payment threshold is $10 for paypal and $100 for check available ad types as we mentioned earlier, adsense’s biggest benefit is that it provides contextual ads. it was the first major ad network to do so. the company also does display ads, but there are so many different options out there to publishers. here are some available ad types you can get with a google adsense alternative. display ads one of the most basic types of ads you can incorporate into your site is display ads. these are the banner and sidebar ads you see on many sites around the internet. typically, they feature some artwork and copy to get the message across. they can be placed anywhere, including in the header, footer, sidebar, or within the content itself. contextual ads while google may have revolutionized contextual ads, adsense isn’t the only network that does them. contextual ads are designed to put the right ads in front of the right people. artificial intelligence is used to scan a site’s content and look out for keywords pertaining to the content. those keywords are then used to choose which ads are displayed. this type of digital marketing is great for publishers because it ensures that ads work well with the site. native ads native ads are a form of contextual advertising. the primary difference is that the marketing media is specifically designed to look like standard content on the site. it allows the ad to blend into the content seamlessly so that it’s not obtrusive to the reader. native ads can come in the form of articles, advertorials, videos, and more. in-text ads not to be confused with targeted text ads for search engines, in-text ads are placed within an article. certain keywords are highlighted in the text. when the visitor hovers their mouse over it, a small pop-up ad box displays the actual marketing material. it’s discreet, unobtrusive, and effective. video ads video ads aren’t just reserved for youtube. these videos are placed on a site like any traditional display ad. however, they’re often set to automatically play once the page is loaded. some networks allow publishers to install a video player that cycles through multiple ads when the visitor is browsing. interactive media ads last, but not least, there are interactive ads. this form of advertising is a bit rarer, but it can be quite effective. as the name would suggest, these ads require direct interaction from the visitor. they can utilize animations, question-and-answer pop-ups, and more. things to consider for your new ad network before you choose an advertising network, there are many things you should consider. monetizing your site should be about more than just creating a revenue stream. you need to consider how it will impact your site and what type of experience you’ll have managing it. customization not all networks allow you to customize the appearance of ads. those that do, however, typically provide you with the most flexibility. you can change color schemes, sizes, and more. it’s a great way to maintain the overall aesthetics of your site without having to sacrifice monetization. ad variety having a wide variety of ads to choose from lets you take control over how your space is being used. you might want to use traditional display ads on one page while implementing contextual options on another. whatever the case may be, having those options can make all the difference. also, consider the types of advertisers a network works for. an ad network is only as good as its client base. larger networks will have thousands of companies that you can work with, so keep this in mind as you compare providers. rules and regulations the biggest disadvantage of google adsense is its strict rules, so choose a network with rules that you can stick to. some networks will only work with certain types of sites. for example, it’s not uncommon to see networks barring sites from certain countries or niches. also, take a look at the rules you’ll need to follow after you’ve started a campaign. are there any guidelines for layout? do you have to censor yourself in future posts? minimum payouts for google adsense, you have to make at least $100 in ad revenue before you can request a payout. if you’re running a smaller site, it may take you a while to meet that threshold. luckily, there are some providers with smaller minimums or no account balance requirements at all! payment methods once you make enough to get paid, how do you want that money to get to you? networks with several different payment options are best. some allow you to make bank wire transfers while others will only work with payment processors. the easiest forms of payment include check and electronic funds transfers to your debit card. you can also find networks that make payments through paypal, payoneer, payza, and even bitcoins. approval requirements before you even attempt to sign up with a network, check with the approval requirements. most have a strict approval process that you have to get through. depending on the network, you might have to have a certain level of consistent web traffic or create a specific type of content. it’s different for every network, so read make sure to take a look before you go through the application process. campaign models there are several types of campaign models available. they will directly affect how much you make. most offer a flat rate based on page views and leads generated. some also perform header bidding, which has a changing rate based on the results of an advertising auction. it’s also a good idea to see common cpm and click-through rates to get a better idea of what kind of income you can make. fill rate a fill rate is a percentage that reflects how many ads were displayed versus how many requests were made to the server. ad networks want to have the most impact for their clients as possible. as a result, ads don’t always display to visitors because there was a low chance of a conversion. a higher fill rate ensures that ads are being displayed as much as possible. it’s important to remember that fill rate doesn’t reflect attempts that were blocked by adblock. it’s a figure that shows you how many ads were actually displayed to visitors. some networks allow you to adjust the fill rate manually, which offers great control over your cpm. user-friendliness finally, let’s talk about user-friendliness. digital marketing can get very complicated, but that shouldn’t mean that you can’t monetize your site. user-friendly platforms allow you to learn more about how your site is doing and where income is coming from. some networks have robust analytics systems to give you a better idea of many performance parameters. there are even networks that allow you to install a plugin on wordpress for a hands-off approach. consider your skill level and choose an ad network that provides you with the tools you need. conclusion who says you have to settle for google adsense? while it might be a powerhouse in the digital marketing industry, there are plenty of other networks out there vying for your business. check out these ad networks and see which one works for you! trying different monetization techniques can help you find the right fit and push your site to the next level. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 categories make money online post navigation how to sell photos online – comprehensive guide for 2020 2020 internet stats: the state of the internet report 30 thoughts on “top 19 best google adsense alternatives 2020” jyoti jain july 31, 2019 at 6:46 pm | reply can we use multiple platforms at the same time on a wordpress blog? jamie july 31, 2019 at 7:23 pm | reply yes you can. sachin july 25, 2018 at 10:14 am | reply according to me, there are no other alternatives like adsense for good revenue. adsense gives more than any other. i have experience with infolinks on my website having many visits per day still there is not much revenue. btw, thanks for your article. arvind november 10, 2017 at 9:06 am | reply thanks for the great information on adsense alternatives. i am using adsterra , eleavers and studads advertising network. i am getting paid each month. thank you once again. palashtd august 1, 2017 at 2:34 am | reply hi jamie, excellent list of the best google adsense alternatives. but i personally prefer to monetize the blog with media.net and mellowads those ad networks are great for small and low traffic blog. i have tested. however thanks for sharing your experienced list. marcus cent may 11, 2017 at 9:17 am | reply you could also look at adflare – http://www.adflare.com. that uses header bidding and can work better than adsense alone. pramod kumar april 8, 2017 at 3:47 pm | reply found something different here. all other blogs suggested media.net is the best alternative. but don’t know about meridian, easy monetizer & oio publisher. i’ll try them. thanks for sharing valuable information. jamie april 9, 2017 at 8:25 am | reply hi pramod you’re right, media.net is a great alternative to google adsense, but i would check out a few of the others as they all offer something different. patricia heidel february 21, 2017 at 12:44 pm | reply media.net is the best alternative for google adsense, cpc betwenn 0,10 $ – 0,90 $ per click are possible. but i am using both on my site and i don’t get any problems with google. jamie february 21, 2017 at 2:49 pm | reply thanks for the suggestion patricia. i will check it out. rupam chakma babu january 20, 2017 at 7:50 am | reply adsense is the best, it always looking good, i have tried many ads network , media.net is worse if you have no usa or canada traffic, infolinks is better for indian traffic also, chittika is showing google ads but not recommend by me. thanks.? gaurav verma october 25, 2016 at 6:54 am | reply i tried chitika and many other adsense alternative but its pay very low if compared to adsense. so adsense is more better than other adnetwork gary campbell august 8, 2016 at 10:57 am | reply hi jamie, i feel that chikita.com is more helpful in explaining for the new bloggers. i currently use yllix it is not on your list. at moment i am satisfied because they have really lot of options for placing ads and lot of different advertisers, but i am always ready for change if someone convince me that i will get more with some of above. thanks, great article travis d. fisher july 25, 2016 at 3:19 pm | reply a great list. i personally use revenuehits in my blog. i am thinking to use propeller ads. is it good? daniel koepf july 18, 2016 at 8:03 am | reply i earn much more with adnow than with adsense. especially if you have a foreign language blog, you should try it! http://adnow.com/ jamie july 13, 2016 at 8:26 am | reply for me personally, i like to attract organic traffic rather than paid sources. it takes more time, but in the end you’ll reap the benefits, as its free traffic. apthagowda july 11, 2016 at 11:15 am | reply good post. but none of the ad network is not as good as adsense. adsense is totally different. but when it comes to alternatives, media.net is the best option to choose. jamie july 12, 2016 at 9:11 am | reply true, but sometime it’s good to mix things up and create additional revenue streams. being too reliant on one network is not good. that’s why i always promote finding additional affiliate and ad income streams. binod bhattarai june 28, 2016 at 9:26 am | reply i’m using adsterra on my website and it’s doing pretty well. ok it’s not anywhere near the quantity of adsense, but i use it as it will be the best for nepali language news portal site deepak rana june 18, 2016 at 5:01 am | reply hey, jamie. this is a great list of some other ad networks on the internet. i use media.net and infolinks on my niche blogs and they working out really good, so far. other than that, amazon native shop is a good alternative if you’re targeting buyer intent keywords on the blog and having tier1 traffic on blog. keep the great work up! jason baxter may 30, 2016 at 2:24 pm | reply great post. google adsense is the best adnetwork among all the ad networks. but its always good to have alternatives to google adsense. as google adsense is very strict, there is always a chance of ban of accounts for many reasons. ankit may 22, 2016 at 12:52 pm | reply i have been using admush network since 2016. and i haven’t seen such a good network in making more money from websites or even from facebook pages. really this network is great. jamie may 23, 2016 at 5:11 pm | reply cheers ankit. i’ll check it out. sivaram may 6, 2016 at 12:06 am | reply hi, i am using adsense from past 1year. i have a website having 300 views per day. but my revenue from the site is very low. so i am thinking of moving to another ad network. please suggest me some nice ad network suitable for my website. you can check my website here: telugumovies dot eu thanks in advance. steven april 8, 2016 at 12:31 am | reply great post jamie ! im personaly using revenuehits and im totaly sure that is the best adsense alternative until now. alex march 24, 2016 at 2:58 pm | reply also i use tribaladnetwork.com. i earn around $0,23 per click. john crook december 21, 2015 at 1:02 am | reply i have tried all the above ads network.. qadabra was the best among all but they have started the new scam of ignoring all asian traffic.. i tried many other networks but finally i have found the best among all and it is the propeller ads network, which is basically a network from uk. it has been paying me $20-$30 per day for my 3000-4000 daily visitors, even-though i have just posted 3 ads on my site. osmon kerqeli april 11, 2016 at 6:18 pm | reply does it approve health and fitness sites becaus ei have heard that propellerads approves only games videos sites, ? abdirizak december 11, 2016 at 4:04 pm they approve it, but they only have link ads format not banner, which means you have to create your own banners and then connect the links they provided to you bob march 29, 2019 at 2:06 am | reply propellelads is a scam company. google it and avoid at all costs leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. for more making money online tips and guides, head over to my make money online pinterest board latest reviews clickfunnels review ecwid review jungle scout review the best clickfunnels alternatives swagbucks review best social media management tools westhost review – 2019 categories amazon fba blog traffic blogging business cheat sheets content marketing design tips email marketing graphic design interviews make money online marketing photography questions social tech buying guides web development website cms wordpress best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub