skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 16 content protection plugins for wordpress websites top 16 content protection plugins for wordpress websites march 13, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 9 comments content is what keeps the web alive. day by day, hundreds of thousands of content pieces make their way into the web. in recent years, protecting the content of websites has become much more popular not only because it helps to weed out low-quality users but also because it helps to join together people who truly share the same ideas about a particular subject. the highly reputable media publisher inc. has also taken the approach of protecting its content from visitors who haven’t signed into the service, making its online community slightly more exclusive. in many ways, it protects itself against plagiarism and spammers, too. wordpress offers several types of content protection. we have membership-type plugins that help to build a bridge between registered user content and content for those who haven’t registered. we also have simple protection plugins that allow you to restrict content for visitors unless they complete an action. an example is liking your facebook page or sharing your site on social media and such. some plugins even offer the ability to lock content for a certain amount of time. let’s take a closer look at the collection of various content protection plugins below. memberpress memberpress has proven itself many times to be a reliable membership plugin solution for wordpress. it delivers the kind of platform that can help bloggers create membership sites with exclusive and flexible features. memberpress offers its users a solid membership platform that integrates features like content control (you decide who can see and browse content). you will have the ability to sell your products and accept direct payments on your website pages. also, a subscription management module will let you build multiple levels of subscriptions. so, build a community forum platform to organize all your members in one place. with this plugin, you won’t have to configure an external forum platform to work with your membership platform. more info / download woocommerce memberships woocommerce memberships is not just another plugin for restricting your site’s content. it’s an easy-to-use, site-wide membership solution. it brings your content, shop, and memberships together. you can set up the plugin to allow you to sell individual memberships. you can also enable a module to allow gifting memberships to their friends, family, and co-workers. moreover, a very extensive “drip” module lets you schedule access to your premium content for certain members. such a module provides creative opportunities in terms of product releases and product add-ons. you can even set up the plugin to offer premium (exclusive) products to members only. this then allows you to create some sort of a special club out of your online business. more info / download wp courseware with wp courseware, you can easily transform your existing wordpress website into a full-blown online course platform with the ability to protect your course content. this plugin lets you create pages for online courses, quizzes, surveys, member pages, and much more. appealing modules include features that allow you to generate a course completion certificate automatically for students who have finished their courses. it’s a truly flexible courseware platform that will change the way you teach your members forever. more info / download ultimate learning pro as the name suggests, ultimate learning pro is a content protection plugin for educational wordpress websites. it is a fantastic learning management system (lms) that will get you going in close to no time. in short, it is an all-in-one solution for building an online learning program where students can join and educate themselves about different topics. instructors and teachers can join, too, and share information with the knowledge-hungry users. there are tons of features that ultimate learning pro sports and will put your web platform right on top. from different payment services and course reviews to wishlists, pushover notifications, custom currencies and lesson drip content. ultimate learning pro works seamlessly with other ecommerce and membership platforms, like woocommerce, easy digital downloads and stripe to name a few. for a small fee, you can now create your own online learning system and take your project to new heights. more info / download final user final user is a simple to use tool that offers your site users to create front-end profiles. it is also a cool content protection wordpress plugin that guarantees your content is only accessible to registered users. the extension is also in tune with different payment gateways, like paypal, stripe and woocommerce. for your users, you can set different types of memberships, like free account, one-time payment, recurring payment, free trial and even variations. final user is versatile and adaptive to fit your business needs precisely. clean and practical dashboard, stunning profile page, pricing table and powerful admin settings are some of the features that final user treats you to. set coupons, user roles and even collect new users’ emails with mailchimp integration, the options are there, ready and set for you to take to your advantage. more info / download bs input with bs input, you can protect your website’s content easily and effectively. it is a content protection wordpress plugin that allows your users to enter your members’ area by registering a new account and logging in using their preferred social account or email address. bs input creates a neat pop-up form that you can fully customize and fine-tune to the level it matches your branding to a t. to use bs input plugin, you do not need to have and experience in web development – no coding required. bs input sports two social button styles, six animations, a built-in translation system and works with any wordpress theme. it is also compatible with woocommerce, buddypress and font awesome. if you would like to seamlessly integrate login and registration form pop-ups to your business page, ecommerce platform or blog, do it like a champ with bs input. more info / download institute management pro institute management pro is – hence the name – a wordpress plugin for managing online courses, students, fees, registrations, staff and all the rest that comes to mind. as far as online courses go, you can add new, set their duration and fees. moreover, on the inquiry level, institute management pro allows you to receive inquiries from front-end submissions or add them directly from your admin panel. of course, you can easily register new students, add admins and assign different tasks. in the admin dashboard, you can see all the courses, progress, the number of active sessions, students and more. institute management pro also comes with institute noticebar widget which you can add to your website and share with everyone important information about the program and other whatnot. what’s more, send notifications, search and filter records, offer different payment options and export stats. feel free to try out the demo first and see the real power of institute management pro. more info / download s2member s2member stands out with an incredibly extensive list of capabilities and features that you won’t find anywhere else. whether you’re looking to protect individual posts and pages or even specific urls of your site, s2member can take care of it all for you with a few simple clicks. on top of that, you can protect certain parts of your content within a post or a page. s2member is not just for protecting your content either. the whole platform offers a truly remarkable membership-site solution. easy payment gateway integration and unlimited subscription levels mean that you are in control of how your community grows and which direction it takes. more info / download ultimatemember many wordpress bloggers consider the ultimatemember plugin as a great solution in creating an effective membership site. it features content protection, front-end user management, and a members database. specifically, you’ll get a forms builder, custom field extensions, the option to send out member-specific emails. of course, it has a fully mobile responsive code base to ensure that the site looks equally good on any device out there. this plugin likewise offers custom extensions. they include social login, real-time user updates, user-to-user reviews, e-commerce integration, and captcha capabilities. more info / download paidmembershipspro on this list, so far, paidmembershipspro is the most lightweight and perhaps the easiest to use membership/content protection platform. with paidmembershipspro, you can easily add extra features to your wordpress site by enabling several membership levels. you can be in full control of how each membership level sees your content and in what way. it comes with a built-in community forum feature as well. notably, too, everything has been optimized for the best search engine performance. more info / download ungrabber if you would like to protect your website’s content, you can do it with ungrabber easily. this content protection wordpress plugin is packed with all sorts of goodies, preventing others from stealing your works of art. this plugin will not protect just your texts, but your visual content, too. no more copying for thieves. also, ungrabber does not cause any inconvenience to the overall site performance and indexing. no one will even notice it is there, for as long as they do not try and use the right click. some more features of ungrabber are gutenberg compatibility, seo-friendliness, suitability for rtl languages, support for all popular web browsers and woocommerce-readiness. to top it all up, you also get six months worth of support at no additional charge. if you have tons of delicate stuff on your website, protect it now with ungrabber. more info / download appender appender is another cool content protection wordpress plugin with a unique feature. everyone who tries to copy your content, appender will add your copyrights to it. how cool does that sound? of course, you can fully customize the text to whatever you prefer. some of the customization options are editing site name, tagline, address, url, date and time. you can do pretty much whatever you want with appender. you can also set whether you would like the plugin to display the copyrights before or after the copied text. the interface of the plugin is straightforward to use, perfect both for beginners and professionals. what’s more, appender is entirely compatible with all the popular wordpress themes, page builders, gutenberg and rtl languages. to make copying your content not feel as pleasant as they thought it would be, use appender and let them think twice before doing it. more info / download woocommerce private store as the name suggests, if you would like to create a private store, use woocommerce private store plugin. you can now fully password-protect your online shop, making it accessible only to those that you want. of course, you can only privatize particular sections of your ecommerce website, no need to make it invisible in its entirety. with woocommerce private store, you can protect posts, products, categories, pages and even set customized parameters. instead of letting everyone see what you try to push, you can take things to an entirely new degree with woocommerce private store. protect the content that not everyone should see, but only those who have your permission to do it. with this content protection wordpress plugin, you will have a breeze setting things up and privatize different sections of your web store. more info / download restrict content pro restrict content pro has evolved as a content protection platform. it helps wordpress bloggers make their content privately accessible to members of the site that have become subscribers. thanks to its success, the community gets restrict content pro with extended functionality. this supports addons, such as an affiliate marketing feature, a job submission board, multiple popular email marketing platform integrations. supported as well are features like the bbpress forum. more info / download simple membership here we are moving into a territory of free content protection plugins that provide easy to use methods for keeping your content private when necessary. the simple membership plugin is a lightweight membership plugin that will work with your favorite wordpress themes out of the box, and provide you with cool features like media content protection, an ability to tease your visitors with content snippets to help them become full-on site members, to have all comments left on content protected posts to be protected as well, and a full-fledged membership platform that will let you have full access over the member levels of your site and how they interact with content. more info / download password protected in some situations, we don’t need to have a membership platform. all we really need is a way to make sure that our content stays private. meaning, only a select few can gain access to it. with such a thought in mind, the best solution to use would be the password protected plugin. it is a simple wordpress plugin that will let you set up a site-wide password that will be required any time any of the sites pages are being accessed. certainly a very raw content protection solution! more info / download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. content lockercontent protectionmembershippaid membership share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts top 20 adsense plugins for wordpress to maximize revenue 2020 google adsense will always remain as a safe option for generating extra income with your… the best wordpress user management plugins 2020 wordpress allows you to assign different user roles to the many members of your team.… how to build a decent website: top wordpress plugins 2020 a modern economy requires entrepreneurs to go online. as a matter of fact, all the… 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 collecting money for a good cause is not always an easy task. but you can… 10 free and functional client portal plugins if you want to create a dedicated space where your users will be able to… 13 super plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site 2020 below are 10 plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site in the simplest way… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 16 best responsive paid wordpress gallery plugins 2020 next post: top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×