culture design basics culture design services end-to-end culture design™ culture walls™ ceo culture study case studies united states air force at&t toppel career center university of miami blog contact our team get inspired press menu gapingvoid culture design group search our work the daily email - sign up for insights & inspiration! culture design: how iconic leaders deliver sustained operational excellence you are not alone. culture is the greatest business challenge of our day. most things we think of as culture solutions look like surveys/assessments, 360s, apps, etc. the problem is that these are not solutions. they simply generate data. and, data is not a solution. effective culture solutions fundamentally change how people look at their work, relate to their colleagues and customers. it is emotional. this is why most executives struggle with it. think about the most successful ceos of our time, ge’s jack welch, ibm’s lou gerstner, steve jobs, and more recently, pepsico’s indra nooyi, and microsoft’s satya nadella, they all have one thing in common. they each lent their success to well-articulated, inclusive cultures that not only delivered outstanding employee engagement but more importantly, sustained operational excellence. often, when leaders like these leave, things change. culture is misunderstood. there’s no coincidence that they are business icons. they understand the functional power of culture to transform their organizations. it’s not an opinion, here’s the data that shows this. culture is not simply about making employees happy, it’s far bigger: it is the key to delivering amazing business outcomes. the ultimate management tool we think about culture differently: it is designable. it is an executable, measurable, management system that drives outstanding business performance. this is culture design™. we’ve helped organizations as diverse as at&t, microsoft, roche, us air force, mit sloan and zappos. we can help you too. if you agree, let’s have a conversation. if you disagree, let’s definitely have a conversation. we deliver a real, human, emotional, immersive connection to work. are you ready to work with us? contact us home culture design services press our team blog contact us subscribe for free privacy policy © 2020 · gapingvoid