skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 31 best plugins for wordpress photoblogs 2020 top 31 best plugins for wordpress photoblogs 2020 march 18, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 2 comments photographers have a great advantage in displaying their work online. a simple blogging platform like wordpress can be quickly transformed into a powerhouse one for serving artwork, selling artwork, and simply promoting yourself as a professional photo artist. creative digital artists can also use a photoblog to promote their graphic design skills. the uses for a photoblog are quite many. even some wallpaper sites can be considered photoblogs, especially if they’re using wordpress as their back-end for serving all those images. however, how does one begin the process of launching a photoblog? aren’t wordpress themes related to photography enough? technically, colorlib has already reported on many photography-oriented themes. see some of those posts here: wordpress themes for professional and hobby photographers wordpress themes for photographers and photography enthusiasts free responsive wordpress portfolio themes the selection of such themes is huge. you have the photography themes and the portfolio themes used to display portfolio items, which are often actual photographs. you also have visual page builders, which have exploded in popularity. customize these with custom addons to replicate a photoblog or a portfolio environment. however, what about separate gallery plugins that could be utilized for displaying visual content? that’s what we will try and depict in this collection. we’ve put together a list of the best wordpress plugins for photoblogging, photography sharing, portfolio creation process, and general gallery sharing. you’ll be amazed at the amount of great resources out there. starting your own photoblog will no longer be a task for the future. now, you’ll have all the tools to get it done. modula modula is our favorite gallery plugin for wordpress since we use it for colorlib and several other projects. this plugin is very flexible. the free version does a lot on its own. the premium version, on the other hand, is worth every penny. download grand flagallery galleries are the core of any wordpress photoblog. the gallery aspect helps with managing and organizing the media files in a way where you can present them to the user through a smooth user experience. individual photoblog plugins do exist, but it’s much easier to manage one through the use of a professional photography theme, and a gallery plugin that can be implemented on top of it. grand flagallery is one such choice for putting the two together, and executing a smooth gallery experience. the plugin lets wp admins to upload media content; pictures, music, videos, and lets them combine all of those into single galleries, through any presentation queries that might be favorable. the galleries are friendly with tablets and smartphones, and have been carefully configured to compliment search engine requirements as well. download cincopa wordpress media plugin when we think of photoblogs, we might be assuming that a photoblog is only useful for photography content, but more often than not that content type extends to music and video files as well. cincopa’s plugin can handle audio, video and standalone photography equally well across all platforms and browsers. the galleries are stylish and allow the user to experience the photo’s just the way you would want them to, through a smooth lightbox gallery experience. the photos can be listed in many different styles, including traditional lightbox, pinterest, and image lists. you can select from the options menu the kind of media-type that you’re working with, whether it’s photos, slideshows, videos, podcasts or audio files, the plugin can handle them all with equal precision. just start making a new post and use the plugins settings buttons to configure your galleries and plug them into your posts. download gmedia gallery grand media gallery lives up to its name. it’s a grand plugin with grand functionality. the separated media library management window provides plenty of options for photobloggers to configure their galleries and media files in organized manner, to deliver the best browsing experience for the reader. galleries and photos can be managed individually, you can apply custom categories, tags, and filters to each of the photos, and create an unlimited amount of albums. it’s much like your personal digital library of photos that you can share with your readers. due to the feedback and receptivity of wp users, a set of modules have been released to extend the basic functionality beyond the basic capabilities. those features include photobox, music management, sliders, 3d galleries, and more. download media library assistant generally, the media library in wordpress is considered functional and great at what it does, but it does help to install an assistant plugin that can take the media library functions to the next level, in such a way that it compliments your photoblog experience significantly. the two big features in this assistant plugin are the shortcodes that can be used to post customized galleries and gallery tags within your wordpress content areas. the selection of content templates then enables to display data in a way that’s suitable for your wordpress theme, since you have full editing permissions anyway. you can also add your photography meta-data to each of the photos that you share thanks to the custom fields entries. search also gets a revamp to increase the search results beyond the basics that you’d get for searching through the media gallery normally. download photonic regardless of your project, if you are looking to add the niftiest gallery to your website, you can make it happen with photonic. while wordpress’ integrated gallery function only delivers the most basic features, photonic unlocks a whole new specter of possibilities. along with adding your custom content directly, photonic also supports other different sources, like smugmug, flickr, instagram and google photos to name a few. photonic is also 100% compatible with gutenberg builder, as well as mobile devices and modern web browsers. in the case of using the classic editor, photonic overrides the existing gallery shortcode. however, it also has a feature to create a custom shortcode for photonic gallery specifically so your existing one does not disappear. on top of that, photonic also easily handles a combination of posts created with gutenberg and those without. download robo gallery hammer out an interest sparking gallery that will decorate your wordpress website with the help from robo gallery. it is a super simple to use wordpress photoblog plugin that will take your page to an entirely new degree. bear in mind, even if you are fresh to wordpress, themes, plugins and building websites in general, robo gallery is ideal for you. the tool does not require any prior experience, available to utter beginners, as well as advanced users. core features of robo gallery are gutenberg block, responsive and mobile-ready layout, fifteen hover effects, polaroid gallery and social sharing. additionally, with robo gallery, you can make a fully customizable gallery that will immerse in your branding regulations. to be frank, what we just went through is only a small segment of features and functions that the remarkable robo gallery sports. download wp photo album plus wp photo album plus is a powerful wordpress photoblog plugin that allows you to create outstanding photo albums. whether you are a photographer or a designer willing to push your creations, either way, wp photo album plus is the tool that you should not miss using. at the end of the day, it is free of charge, ready to put it to use right away. even if you approach it with an “i will just test the waters” mentality, there is a good chance you will be hooked right off the bat. the fantastic free wordpress plugin for photo albums supports front-end uploads, bulk imports and practices all the latest trends. wp photo album plus also has commenting and rating system, search function and gives you full control over size, links and metadata. download nextgen gallery nextgen gallery is an adaptive and easily modifiable wordpress photoblog plugin that suits a variety of different purposes. besides, nextgen gallery does not shy away from creating the most basic galleries, as well as such that fit the pickiest users. from photographers to artists, with nextgen gallery, you can create an enticing photo gallery, a portfolio if you will, without hassle. the installation and activation process of nextgen gallery is pretty similar to any other wordpress plugin available on the market today. after you add the extension, the nextgen gallery icon appears in your page or post editor from where you can then fine-tune your galleries accordingly. for more information on working with nextgen gallery, you can read the in-depth documentation and get the gist of it. in short, nothing complicated at all. download photo gallery gallery has 200k active downloads because the plugin excels at the tasks of making your photo galleries more friendly to the user, more flexible and usable at the same time. gallery is a mobile-responsive addition to your existing media library functionality, with the addition of custom view templates, widgets, social media integration, and lightbox additions. all the extras that you’d hope wordpress is going to add as native functionality in the future. the thumbnail and masonry views are really helpful in transforming your wordpress blog from a standard content blog, into a true photoblog that will wonderfully outline your expertise in photography. there’s also an option to create slideshows and compact albums. we particularly liked the settings panel for creating shortcodes, where you can enjoy the full set of features and create galleries just the way you’d prefer them to be. it’s nice when plugins allow you to be in full control of the appearance of your content. advertisements and watermarks are also available for configuration. not only can you protect your work directly, you can start earning revenue for it if you so desire. the major image types are supported. all galleries can be configured in unlimited varieties. video content can also be embedded into your galleries. download gallery bank gallery bank packs an exceptional range of features, likely the major factor why 30k wp bloggers are enjoying the plugin so far. the album creation page is carefully crafted to include all the plugin’s features in a single window. you can experience the process of creating a new album as if you’re working with a standalone desktop computer software, truly! first you get to create your album’s name, and insert a description. then, you can start uploading files that will appear at the footer of the photo management window. as soon as photos are done uploading, you can enter their own individual titles and descriptions, and even specify tags and external urls; much like you’d be able to do with the media manager already, but in a more specific way. the album experience becomes that much more personal for each of the albums that you build, and their output far exceeds the design qualities of what wordpress can provide up until now. grid galleries, and list gallery templates are very popular amongst the users. the developer has provided more than 50 examples of how the plugin can be utilized, refer to those at the download page of the plugin, they’re all included in the description. download pb seo friendly images even as a photographer or someone who owns a photoblog, you better consider your content to be fully search engine optimized. and if you are unsure how things are done the right way, all you need is a plugin that will help you do the heavy lifting. one such tool is pb seo friendly images. a simple to use free wordpress plugin that helps automate the creation of alt and title attributes of your jaw-dropping imagery. meaning, you do not really need to do much, but let machines do the work for you. with pb seo friendly images, you can override the existing image attributes, swap alt texts for title or the other way around and create a custom scheme. for a super quick and straightforward to use seo optimization tool for images, pb seo friendly images is the one. download easy photography portfolio easy photography portfolio is exactly what it says it is. this wordpress photoblog plugin offers you to create a nifty portfolio or album rich with your masterpieces. the setup could not be any simple, yet the author still provides a full tutorial on how it’s done. if you would like to get the gist of it first, by all means, read through the content beforehand and never run into an issue. bear in mind, even if you are crafting your first ever portfolio, with easy photography portfolio, you will undoubtedly succeed at it. by the way, they even have a video tutorial for your convenience. by default, easy photography portfolio creates a masonry gallery that is very appealing to the eye. with a single click, you open the album and you can then investigate each image individually with another click. download pixproof as a professional photographer, working with clients, create a safe environment on your website for proofing photographies from photo shootings. thanks to pixproof, you can now do this quickly and effortlessly straight from your wordpress website. this free plugin creates a custom proof galleries post, which helps you keep things as organized as possible, separated from other works, galleries and projects that you have on your page. of course, with pixproof, you create password-protects content, which only you and your client can see. sure, you can go with public galleries, too, but that is not the whole idea behind pixproof. keep it private and study the content with your client further before you make the final decision. with the interactive interface, the conversation will flow seamlessly, too. for professional photo proofing straight from your website, use pixproof now. download photo gallery by supsystic supsystic comes out of the hiding room and into the light with a spectacular plugin that will solve all your problems when it comes to photoblogging! you can upload images using the default wordpress media library, or you can import images directly from facebook, instagram, pinterest, and other social media networks. that could be the very reason why so many are relying on this plugin from supsystic. the plugin doesn’t interfere with the design when it comes to mobile devices. no matter what kind of gallery or slideshow you’re building, mobile will render it just as well. the extra layer of options includes custom photo effects that can be applied or reapplied directly in the settings panel of the album. having your own portfolio on the web without the addition of visuals isn’t viable, so that’s the market that the team working on this particular plugin are trying to target. photobloggers, creatives, and those who need a portfolio that can capture the attention well. download wp responsive photo gallery believe it or not, but at one time, no gallery plugin was available for the mobile web. they all lacked mobile functionality, so when the mobile web became more of a thing, many developers quickly started working on alternative plugins to refine the mobile experience for gallery-oriented websites. wp responsive wordpress gallery is a good starting plugin for photobloggers and general bloggers. basically, everyone who wants to extend their content with visual media. the sophisticated gallery settings page has more than 15 unique configuration options for global application to all your images. these include transition speed options for photos, slider height/width dimension and navigation options, thumbnail gallery options, and thumbnail gallery management. the default theme that this plugin uses is a traditional slider-style gallery. it has a featured photo and a selection of other photos at the footer of the main photo. the focus, though, is still on the main image, and the extra photos hardly interfere with the ui or the ux. download responsive photo gallery quite a few of the plugins will definitely focus on gallery integration within an existing post that has content inside of it already. others, such as the responsive photo gallery, will focus more on the aspects of creating gallery/photoblog experiences individually on a single page. meaning, the page in turn becomes the photoblog experience itself. you can customize the shortcodes to deliver different gallery outputs and put them all on a single page. automatically organize and separate each other without disregarding the user experience. you can integrate the animation effects in the settings, so you can apply those as you edit your gallery photos. download image gallery—photo albums this gallery plugin has its own set of offers that many haven’t been able to resist. not only is it friendly to audio and video media types, but it’s also very rich in its selection of photo display templates and the way it displays multiple galleries. the first impressions lead toward hotel interiors and general real estate agencies that want to publish their available products using wordpress. create filterable photo galleries and integrate them into single pages, give your readers a true photoblogging experience with the permission to browse as they choose. however, this can also lead to the use of the plugin on wallpaper sites. because of in-built pagination and filter options, it’s a great plugin to present your work for the use as wallpapers. the many different gallery style templates cater to all needs, and certainly a wide variety of situations where image display is concerned. download responsive photo gallery like bootstrap? then you will love responsive photo gallery! it’s bootstrap based, featuring a modern design that excels in portraying photos in photoblog format. combine shortcodes together and display them in a single page for an amplified engagement effect. create multiple galleries and shortcodes and extend your media files to their best appearance. the admin dashboard for the plugin is simple, and convenient to use. a choice of layouts for design is available, and there is also an animation effect that you can add to your photos. a lightbox plugin is already built-in as well. download gallery pro gallery pro stands out due to its flexible image configuration panel where after each new upload you can quickly modify the media type, label, url, link, and description. with its neat organization, the focus remains on the display experience. download envira gallery lite the gallery plugin from envira is a lite version, with a pro version available on their website. a gallery plugin like this can only succeed if they’re integrating new and interactive features in the plugin, and that’s exactly what’s happening here. the envira gallery dashboard is a dashboard on its own, a separate entity from everything else in wordpress, will with dedicated focus towards album creation and gallery generation. you can enjoy features like media uploading from url, from amazon s3, dropbox, or a remote server. you can also upload videos. its optimize codebase optimizes performance, and it supports search engine optimization. envira will also be helpful to those creative photographers who want to sell their work directly on their wp blog. download sunshine photo cart speaking of selling your work, sunshine photo cart is for those photoblogs where you want to sell your products/photographers directly to the user without third-party interference. the selling dashboard allows you to configure product type, sizes, quantities, and special requests. validate payments using paypal or a direct check. create an unlimited range of products or galleries, and pay no fees anywhere. you keep all profits. download wd instagram feed instagram succeeded because there was a gap in the visual social media niche. since being acquired by facebook, this visual content media network has become a solution for users to share their lives through visual imagery. if you’re already an instagram user, you can turn your wp blog from a simple blog for sharing stories to a more visually appealing photoblog where you can share your latest instagram photos. this way, you can kill two rabbits with a single stone and generate views on multiple channels with a single plugin. you can redirect images to instagram or open them with lightbox. you can set sorting for the images (date, likes, comments, random) as well as define the order (ascending/descending). in case of combined feeds you can use front-end filtering by clicking on specific hashtag or username. the lightbox display images as a slideshow with different transition effects. download premium plugins for wordpress photoblogs modula modula is our highest rated wordpress gallery plugin for photo blogs and all sort of image rich website. it has loads of great features and customization options that makes it stand out between the rest. download wp media boxes portfolio building and crafting online portfolios becomes a piece of cake when you put into play wp media boxes portfolio. this add-on works with just about anything imaginable. for instance, you can showcase your photography, your art designs, products and whatever else comes to mind. indeed, wp media boxes portfolio is an all-in-one plugin that needs no coding and no prior experience working with similar tools. you could be a first timer and still successfully hammer out a portfolio of your dreams. first thing’s first, wp media boxes portfolio rocks a responsive and cross-browser compatible layout. moreover, it comes with an advanced filtering system, search function, powerful sorting and user-friendly admin. the plugin also does not miss lazy load feature, retina ready icons, overlay effects and skin editor. video tutorials and free professional support are also available so you will never find yourself alone. download portfolio designer portfolio designer is a wordpress photoblog plugin that will help you out when creating the most advanced portfolios. not only is it ridiculously simple to use, but the features portfolio designer has in store for you are out of this world. in brief, you can employ the plugin for any project you are currently working on or plan to launch. indeed, portfolio designer is highly adaptive, perfect for any niche and industry you operate in. with portfolio designer, you can create grid, masonry, slider and justify layout portfolios out of the box. furthermore, portfolio designer also comes with fifty impressive effects, unlimited color options, supports audio and video files and works with any wordpress theme out there. you sure will have a blast using portfolio designer. unleash your creative spirit and see the magic happen right in front of your eyes. download noo before after you probably already saw those cool slider type of images which show before and after images. well, this same feature you can now add to your page by using noo before after wordpress photoblog plugin. it has a horizontal and vertical orientation and works with all sorts of projects where you would like to show progress by using a before and after images. it definitely grabs the attention of the user and positively affects the overall experience of your page. noo before after is compatible with all the major drag and drop page builders, like wpbakery, elementor and tinymce. what’s more, noo before after includes custom overlay functions, custom colors, supports rtl languages and automatic updates. level up your page with noo before after and keep your users around for longer. they can now see the amazing skills you have with the cool before and after images that you can include almost immediately. download ubergrid traditionally, a photoblog uses a grid layout to display photos. it’s the most common way of displaying visual data and is the easiest to navigate. ubergrid’s foundation is based on that theory, but although a grid plugin, it far exceeds a plugin’s normal utilization options in a real production environment. you can tie the grid/gallery builder together with e-commerce websites and portfolios. you can also rearrange even simple website content for display in a grid. enjoy both visual and written content and display them as a solid grid. there are a dozen of layouts to choose from, so no matter what the occasion is, ubergrid has a style for it. a complex filtering algorithm supports photoblogs that have a wide range of content categories. the filtering option helps readers to navigate to the content that they seek quicker. numerous integrated lightbox plugins allow the display of visual and media content like videos and audio. the attached google fonts helps you choose the best fonts for your galleries. download go portfolio sometimes, artists look for photoblog-related plugins to build a solid portfolio of their work. essentially, a portfolio allows the same way of content arrangement as a photoblog would. so, we didn’t hesitate to include go portfolio here because of its flexible functions. it also offers stylish design choices as soon as you browse through the demo pages. supporting a visual composer, go portfolio makes the process of publishing new portfolio items enjoyable. a variety of styles mean that your portfolio can stand out from the rest without the extra effort. if you’re running an e-commerce empire, you can use outline your products in a grid using the same portfolio function that you’d use for your photography items. download cube portfolio cube portfolio has a set of very advanced technological features in its core. they allow its users to create portfolio experiences that will cost thousands of dollars to create by individual/freelance developers. configure your own photo galleries and items so that a new window of information slides out on top of the page. this gives each item the attention it deserves and the attention that your work requires. you can choose from boxed to masonry to simple blog list styles. all of these are built with precision using html5 and css3. the plugin also works with page builders. download photomosaic for wordpress photomosaic is like a template for the default wp media gallery. as you’re creating a new wp gallery, you can select the photomosaic template from the dropdown. instantly transform the old-school-looking galleries into unique works of craft. you can create galleries out of a collection of images or out of visuals from a particular post. download thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. free pluginsgalleryphotoblog share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts top 18 google plugins for wordpress blogs 2020 many of us know google by its benchmark products, like gmail, google+, google drive, google… top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress coming up with ideas, researching ideas, writing about ideas, and finally publishing ideas, each part… 15 nifty bbpress plugin add-ons for wordpress forums 2019 all websites that are present on the internet have one common goal - they wish for… 10 free and functional client portal plugins if you want to create a dedicated space where your users will be able to… 30+ best free woocommerce plugins for wordpress 2020 woocommerce is a free plugin that teams up nicely with wordpress to help you sell… 10 functional google drive plugins to use on your site a backup drive is undoubtedly needed on your website. it will save you from the… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 30 seo plugins for wordpress 2020 next post: top 28 free and premium wordpress slider plugins 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×