skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » top 23 kindergarten and elementary school wordpress themes that kids and their parents will love top 23 kindergarten and elementary school wordpress themes that kids and their parents will love january 21, 2020 aigars theme collections 4 comments today we’ll have a look at the best preschool website templates and kindergarten wordpress themes for any kids education-related website. in today’s high-strung society, spending time with our children has become a luxury. our commitment towards work and career advancement has created the need for a place that can look after our offspring. kindergartens can supervise and care for children, providing a crucial social service. this also allows children to socialize on a daily basis, facilitating the development of proper social behavior. it can be a very lucrative business if the owner has patience and a tolerance for occasional crying. however, your kindergarten must be absolutely impeccable. people are very protective of their kids, and they will not take any chances with questionable establishments. at first, most parents will interact with your website. a shoddy page will ruin a client’s first impression, causing you to lose business. thankfully, there are ways of improving a website, without having to hire a professional web development company. platforms like wordpress offer an abundance of impressive kindergarten themes, each capable of improving your page’s aesthetic design, and enhancing its capabilities. for kindergartens with tighter budgets, these products are a godsend. these awesome kindergarten wordpress themes are simplified and streamlined, given that anyone can use them to build a preschool website with ease. you can install and customize your own page, in a matter of moments. in addition, the price is very reasonable, considering the number of innovative features that each theme offers. let’s have a look at the best kindergarten wordpress themes you can install today. kiddy kiddy is a vibrant and colorful wordpress kindergarten wordpress theme. this theme is a carefully constructed theme featuring a series of powerful plugins that will empower you to create your own original websites for kindergartens and child care. kiddy is a perfect theme for kindergartens and similar educational organizations aimed at toddlers, with features like a built-in timetable schedule for wordpress that let parents and educators coordinate pickups and events easily right off your website, while woocommerce integration means you can even directly sell your services or special plans from the comfort of your own kiddy website, without having to write a single line of code. it includes tons of header and footer options, sidebar choices and endless color, typography and background options you can fiddle with, and its inherently playful and energetic visual design is sure to be a hit with the little ones. kiddy is incredibly responsive and thus looks completely fantastic on tablets or mobile phones. more info / download demo kindergarten kindergarten wordpress theme is a modern product crafted for professional childcare centers, preschool, and kindergartens. this theme is one of the beautifully designed wordpress themes that can help you install a professional looking kindergarten website in an instant. this theme is fully responsive to different types of modern and internet-enabled devices. it looks clean and well-made to ensure that site visitors will quickly find the information they are looking for in your website. this modern website template uses an acf post format, a sophisticated custom fields plugin that lets you manage your edit screens and custom field data efficiently. it also gives you the freedom to style and design your website through the themes advanced admin panel. you can choose the color or theme skin that best suits your center or school’s brand. you can also change the fonts, upload images for your logo and header without touching a single line of code. this theme supports various post formats to add variety on the contents that you add in your website. ranking on major search engines on the web is not a problem with this website template because kindergarten wordpress theme is seo friendly and goes well with the best seo plugins in the market. problems could get in the way in the development and design process of your website that is why the brilliant people behind this theme prepared complete documentation to ensure that you will not encounter setbacks in the development process of your website. lastly, they offer outstanding technical support to their customers. more info / download demo kids play kids play is a mobile-friendly kindergarten wordpress theme fully dedicated to the little ones in the house. it is a cheerful set up from anything related to kids and their growing activities. it ranges from kindergarten, to day-care centers or even after school classes diversity. kids play counts with a powerful unyson framework, and uses drap & drop’s wpbakery page builder. as in this case it is an important feature, it is mobile friendly and screen adaptable. kids play comes with a live demo and a child theme website included. it aims to be simple and fun, for which you get +30 shortcodes to make life easier. kids play has pre-built layouts and determined 5 color schemes palette option. although customizing is still possible. you will find 4 headers and footer. posting gets arranged with megamenu. kids play has lots of animations to light up and give a modern impressive look. it also has an event calendar to set up all-important activities for children. it uses contact form and includes 3 sliders including popular slider revolution. kids play features woocommerce and wpml. you will also find seo optimization and social media icons available. make the most fun experience for you and the little ones with kids play! more info / download demo kids club kids club is a colorful and responsive wordpress kindergarten and preschool website theme. this theme is a perfect theme for making child-related websites in a matter of seconds. with kids club, you don’t need to write a line of coding to get awesome results. feature-rich and versatile, kids club makes website design simple and fast. the wp customizer and rapid composer allow you to make your website your own with speed and ease. 5 convenient demo websites are ready to go with a single click. kindergartens find in kids club a complete package for their every need. kids club is an easy to approach framework for webmasters from any background. with a huge range of custom icons it’s easy to express yourself eloquently. five different icon sets are available for you to work with. you can edit and show your events calendar classes and scheduled activities. parents will find the information they need quickly and easily with kids club. an integrated cost calculator lets your customers figure out their budgets. the woocommerce plugin suite lets your commercialize your website overnight. you can reach users on any device and browser with responsive bootstrap technology. check out kids club today, and let them come! more info / download demo kiddie kiddie is a wonderfully creative and colorful wordpress kindergarten and children’s theme. it’s a very clean and family-friendly website building platform, crafted with a collection of tools and features that empower webmasters with or without any coding experience and from all walks of life to create amazing, modern websites in a childish, approachable visual tone with a strong set of features for parents to easily inform themselves about your children related projects and activities. kiddie is perfect for kindergartens, preschools and afterschool activities clubs or similar, related projects that strongly focus on handling children. to that end, kiddie has been designed with both the clean-cut, family-friendly presentation required of the trade as well as the commercially useful features necessary for such a project, including sophisticated pricing boxes, over 20 readymade, customizable demo web pages for all sorts of specific uses, and much more. the wpbakery page builder and revolution slider plugins make design work a matter of minutes completed solely through drag and drop interfaces, while the premium timetable responsive provides a strong framework for calendar-friendly, time-sensitive activities that both you and parents will find immensely helpful. try kiddie now, and watch the young ones roll in! more info / download demo lilo if you are on the hunt for a wordpress theme that suits kindergartens and child care businesses best, lilo is the one tool that you should not miss. it comes with a vibrant and energetic web design that creates a pleasant and memorable first impression. everyone browsing through your content will have a great time, that is for sure. bear in mind, there are actually three designs available for you to take to your total advantage. there is more to lilo. with the use of the wpbakery page builder, you can make improvements and fine-tune the look, so it matches your taste exactly. there is also a horde of shortcodes available for you to quickly integrate different features and functions. you can also sell products online with the use of a convenient plugin, woocommerce. start on the web like a pro with lilo. more info / download demo kids planet kids planet is a gorgeous and responsive kindergarten wordpress theme. this theme is a unique theme that is wholly and integrally dedicated to servicing the very peculiar and often overlooked segment of kid-friendly websites of any nature, from children’s toy shops to nurseries, daycares and even arts & crafts afterschool centers, but that shines particularly when handling kindergarten websites of all shapes, sizes and scales. kids planet comes packaged with three exclusive homepage layouts with conceptually different visual approaches that all make handsome use of the premium revolution slider coordinated with custom widgetized areas where you can deploy all manners of convenient, kindergarten related widgets and shortcodes, perfect for showcasing your children’s achievements, your staff qualifications or your facilities, among many other things, while the wpbakery page builder will let you customize these layouts to no end and make your kids planet kindergarten website truly one of a kind. several blog styles are at your fingertips for you to keep the parents updated on what your school is up to, while inherent woocommerce compatibility means you can even market your products or services directly off your kids planet website without having to write a single line of code. more info / download demo cupid if you are searching for a charming kindergarten theme, look no further than cupid. this product has many header and home page variations, each equipped with personalized sliders and images. cupid respects its owner’s time, as it can create a fully functional site in a matter of moments. you can install the theme via wordpress or ftp. also, you may import demo content with a single click. layout construction has been greatly simplified, due to the implementation of the drag and drop page building tool. just as the name suggests, you only need to click on an element, and drag it to where it needs to be. slides are an excellent addition to any site, given that they can showcase your best content. thankfully, the revolution slider plugin allows for the creation of some amazing slides. additionally, cupid is compatible with all devices, including tablets and smartphones. this fully responsive layout guarantees that your content will look incredible on any platform. of course, large menus will not be compatible with smaller screens. an off-canvas menu was incorporated, and it vanishes when it is not being used. thanks to the versatile and powerful theme administration panel, every aspect of your site can be easily changed. more info / download demo bambini if you love children, then bambini is definitely for you! this kindergarten wordpress theme is very colorful, fun and adorable to look at. ideal for nursery, daycare, preschool, baby products and anything cute, this toll looks kid-friendly and parent-approved. there are various portfolio and blog styles to choose from, so you will never run out of choices. in addition to that, you can always adjust and enhance the layout of choice with your branding and signature style. bambini spells functionality all over your site, with endearing features such as timetable, woocommerce, and event plugins, guaranteed to flavor your website. enjoy creating a cuddly, yet technically sophisticated, website with bambini’s animations, headers and fonts. it also comes with hundreds of shortcodes, custom form builder tool, custom widgets and loads other convenient peculiarities. more info / download demo preschool preschool is a colorful and easy to use wordpress kindergarten and preschool theme. this theme has been developed by a talented team of dedicated designers and coders working in conjunction to craft the most perfect, seamless and attractive website theme on the market targeted specifically at childcare and educational centers of all sorts. preschool cleverly deploys a series of advanced resources that immensely speed up the website building process, regarding of your previous design experience or coding skills. with preschool, the powerful industry-standard premium plugins wpbakery page builder and revolution slider are readily integrated into the theme for your convenience, deeply expanding the possibilities of what you can create with your preschool website through simplified drag and drop page building interfaces. unlimited color options will allow you to customize the look of your preschool website to match your school or facility’s color palette or brand identity with ease, while a powerful cms takes care of all your information dissemination requirements, keeping parents up to date and children amused and entertained with engaging, colorful visuals. overall, preschool is the theme that children love, and parents trust. try preschool today! more info / download demo bebio bebio is a nifty kindergarten wordpress theme with all sorts of different demo content. with the quick one-click importer, you can quickly install all the necessary material for a swift page creation. bear in mind, you can effortlessly customize bebio any way you want, the process involves no coding what makes working with bebio very user- and beginner-friendly. it also supports unlimited colors for easy branding. without breaking a single drop of sweat, starting making moves online happens quickly with bebio. some of the features of bebio include parallax effect, smooth transitions, seo optimization, fast loading speed and detailed documentation. the latter, coupled with the support team, lifts your confidence, especially if you are someone who hasn’t really built a page yet. let bebio flip things around 360 degrees, giving you complete creative freedom. more info / download demo pappory with five multi- and one single-page demos, pappory provides more than enough options right off the bat. however, this is just a small portion of all the goodies this kindergarten wordpress theme has in store for you. first and foremost, you do not have to build pages from scratch anymore. on top of that, you also do not need to code to realize a dream website. with pappory and wpbakery page builder, pretty much anyone has the ability to create a children-first website. mouse skills are more or less all you need. to keep things super short, three steps are all it takes to launch a page with pappory. first, you install the theme. second, you import the demo that sparks your interest. and third, well, you can already press the launch button. moreover, between the second and third step also comes customization and tweaking, but that is something that happens in a breeze anyway. more info / download demo alisena alisena is an excellent wordpress theme for establishing a website for a kindergarten or preschool. it has a modern, energetic and vibrant vibe to it, making it perfect for a kids page. the out of the box version appears fantastically, quickly altering to your needs and regulations. of course, alisena is 100% responsive and flexible, cross-browser compatible, retina-friendly and fast loading. in short, it follows all the latest web and tech practices, ensuring a page that will operate all the time smoothly. have in mind, alisena comes with elementor website builder, meaning, all it takes to modify default settings is some dragging and dropping. that is correct, you code visually with alisena. other features include smart slider, lovely animations, countdown timer, testimonials and google maps. you can also start a blog and share all sorts of tips, tricks and recommendations with your community. the options are many and the limitation none with alisena. more info / download demo childit childit is a remarkable, modern, cute and adorable kindergarten wordpress theme with enticing design. while the look of childit caters to many different tastes out of the box, you can also fully modify it. with the use of elementor, even an utter beginner gets to edit childit according to their liking. after all, you do not need to have any coding knowledge to work and successfully create a website with childit. drag and drop and that’s all the work necessary. along with a nifty index page, childit also includes many internal pages, date widget, beautiful galleries, contact form and sticky navigation. other treats include on scroll content loading, slider, back to top button, blog and social media icons. if you are ready to attract more parents, do it with the flexible childit and make a difference. more info / download demo abc tots when scouring the internet for the best and most promising kindergarten wordpress themes, we have many outstanding solutions here that will do the magic. abc tots is another outstanding and first-class alternative that calls for a speedy and spectacular result. with all the predefined material and handy features, you can now start on the world wide web in a little breeze. moreover, you can also employ the powerful wpbakery and alter the look accordingly. abc tots comes with slider revolution, contact form 7, google fonts, parallax effect, cute animations, gallery and google maps. this is only a small segment of all the great features that abc tots has in store for you. pick abc tots now and witness a swift site realization that will boost the recognition of your kindergarten through the roof. more info / download demo kids life kids life is a specialized wordpress theme for preschool, daycare, school, craft, art, and training websites. the product’s layout is entirely responsive and retina-ready, and every single page element can resize in order to fit the smaller screens of tablets and smartphones. this theme turns page construction into a pleasant experience. there is no need for coding or programming knowledge, given that anyone can design a site that matches their vision. you can utilize the woocommerce plugin if you wish to sell your products. it facilitates the creation of safe and reliable online stores. in order to increase your view count and customer base, you can host a multilingual site. thankfully, kids life is translation ready due to the wpml plugin. your foreign customers will certainly appreciate a more inclusive format. your site will also feature many parallax effects, and 20 eye-catching colors. there is no limit to what you can achieve with this product. for languages with right to left writing, rtl support is available. in addition, every page can benefit from a modern mega menu which enables multi row and multi column navigation. users can include shortcodes, images and customized descriptions. for more info, be sure to check out the theme preview. more info / download demo baby kids educating a child is the best investment for the future. baby kids is a wordpress theme that understands that fact, as it can facilitate the creation of an amazing website. for new users, there are many information sources that offer to guide them through the installation process. video tutorials, and support forums can turn novice customers into seasoned wordpress veterans. you can use baby kids for college, school, secondary and primary school, elementary and kindergarten web pages. basically, if your goal is to promote online education activities, this theme can be your greatest ally. however, despite its niche appeal, baby kids is capable of enhancing sites from any other niche. its versatility stems from a large number of practical features, and completely responsive design. indeed, your content will be able to adapt to the screens of hand-held devices. this theme eliminates resizing issues so smartphone and tablet users can rejoice. in order to showcase your best content and upcoming events, you must create gorgeous slides via the slider revolution responsive wordpress plugin. everything has been more accessible in order to accommodate those without programming or coding knowledge. you can design your own a fully-functional page in just a few moments from start to finish. more info / download demo fable fable is a wonderful wordpress theme that seeks to improve your website. it is quite niche-oriented, and it can be used for elementary and primary school kindergarten, college, junior high, preschool, crèche and nursery pages. for many people, time is a valuable commodity. not all users can spend time building a site from scratch. with fable, they won’t have to. it offers various demo pages, widgets and posts. you can also import this pre-designed content easily with a single click, via the theme demo data installer. for those who wish to build their own page, the drag and drop page builder is available. you only need to click on an element, and drag it across the screen. it’s that easy! if you want to use a native wordpress editor, feel free to access the shortcode generator. moreover, fable is a product that refuses to rest on its laurels. it will receive regular updates for free, each promising to expand and improve its capabilities. should you encounter any issue, do not hesitate to contact the theme support system. their representatives are very friendly, and eager to help. finally, you can access a live preview if you wish to sample this product without having to spend any money. more info / download demo kindergarten kindergarten is a wordpress theme that refuses to be mediocre or bland. you can be sure that this is the ideal product for your child-based web page. it has niche appeal, yet it maintains an astounding degree of versatility due to its practical features. it has various layouts for your headers, an advanced rating system, and multiple blog styles. in addition, users will benefit from several slider options: flex, royal, swiper and revolution. you can also easily customize and organize your content via the media content manager. this theme is reasonably priced, and it offers a series of premium wordpress plugins that were added for free. the theme layout accommodates the smaller screens of mobile devices, making it fully responsive. the developers also implemented swipe effects. moreover, kindergarten offers unlimited options for header customization. users are able to modify their logo’s size and position, and they can benefit from transparent headers. furthermore, the theme upper menu will feature two distinct styles, and limitless capabilities via the trx menu configurator. the trx framework enables different drop-down menu styles, resulting in more customization for your pages. lastly, your theme menu has several sections that you can personalize: sidebar, bookmark panel, theme settings panel and a side menu light version. more info / download demo carry hill school carry hill school is an astounding wordpress theme that can improve every aspect of your web page. it is entirely responsive, capable of accommodating smaller, hand-held devices. your content will look amazing on laptops, tablets, smartphones, and desktop pcs. the creators incorporated some premium wordpress plugins for free. they also added a timetable responsive schedule plugin, allowing users to better organize their time. like any other carry hill school feature, users can access it from all browsers or operating systems. given that your visitors will read more, you need to make sure that your posts are aesthetically-pleasing. additionally, they added over 700 innovative google fonts, each with its own unique charm. for new customers, the installation process can be very intimidating. thankfully, carry hill school offers some very informative video tutorials. the theme has a limitless range of color customization options. in addition, you can enjoy the 9 pre-designed color schemes. on average, multilingual pages manage to attract more customers than their monolingual counterparts. furthermore, your site will be translation-ready and wpml compatible, assuring that you can display your content in multiple languages. for more information regarding carry hill school and its features, be sure to check out the live preview. more info / download demo kidix kidix is a wordpress theme that can enhance school, kindergarten, child care center, education, nursery and preschool pages. it is very user-friendly, and it allows anyone to create a wonderful website. there is no coding or programming knowledge required. once kidix is purchased, the customer will benefit from after-sales support. this service is completely free. regardless of your issue, do not hesitate to contact their well-trained customer support representatives. psd source files are available as well. the entire theme layout is customizable, as you get to design a page that matches your vision. this is made possible by many innovative customizer options. in addition, every change can be instantly previewed, offering immediate feedback regarding your decisions. a limitless number of personalized google web fonts and colors may be used to further improve your site’s aesthetic appeal. there are custom post variations for classes, teachers and albums. users are able to better organize all content elements, resulting in a superior browsing experience for everyone. kidix is completely responsive, and it can display post on the screens of hand-held devices. for customers with tight schedules, demo data quick-starts your project. with pre-made content, they can benefit from a fully-functional site in a matter of minutes. more info / download demo little people little people is a wordpress theme for customers who are interested in shaping young minds. you can use it for nursery, kindergarten and childcare pages. this product has many niche-oriented features, designed to improve the browsing experience of all users. little people has many premium wordpress plugins and various pre-designed content pages. these pages can save you a lot of time, eliminating the need to start from scratch when creating your site. in just a few minutes, you can benefit from a fully-functional page. for new users, the developers included several informative features. a theme documentation source is available. this simplifies everything, given that it offers to guide you through the customization process. in addition, detailed video tutorials and an excellent support system were incorporated. customers will get to enjoy a deep, immersive experience thanks to some gorgeous video backgrounds, full-screen images, stunning typography options, animations and angled rows. beautiful and practical, this theme has everything. little people will work with any device on the market, including tablets and smartphones. compatibility and resizing errors have been completely eliminated, as the layout adapts to all screens. for more information regarding this theme, be sure to check out the live preview. more info / download demo happy kids happy kids is an excellent wordpress theme that offers to improve your website. you can use it on any child-related page, given that it has some very innovative features. happy kids was constructed using modern css3 and html5 technology. when it comes to visual customization, this theme spoils you. there is an infinite number of color customization options, in addition to 9 pre-designed background patters. its style is clean and streamlined, and the layout is completely responsive. also, your content will be able to easily adapt to the smaller screens of smartphones and tablets. no resizing or compatibility problems will ever ruin your browsing experience. moreover, happy kids has a visual content management system and a powerful advanced theme options panel. this is a product for everyone due to its user-friendliness and ease of use. even those without programming experience can create and customize a highly-competitive site. thanks to the revolution slider plugin, gorgeous slides are available. these can shine a spotlight on your content, proving to your visitors that you are worthy of their attention. furthermore, the developers added the woocommerce plugin for those who wish to sell their items and services online. it facilitates the creation of professional online shops. more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. children careeducationkidskindergartenschoolsimple share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts top 30 wpml wordpress themes available on sale do you want to reach more people with your content? or maybe you feel like… best speaker wordpress themes for motivational speakers, coaches, authors 2020 here you will find the most popular and best wordpress themes for speakers. events play… top 22 dark wordpress themes to make your website look serious and professional 2020 beauty is in the eye of the beholder, says the sage. yet some beauties are… 45 most popular creative digital agency wordpress themes 2020 running a creative digital marketing agency and looking for a wordpress theme? these beautiful agency… the brightest education wordpress themes to make your website stand out every time you think about education websites make sure you know that they are used… top 20 amazing personal doctor wordpress themes 2019 sure thing, when considering building a medical website it’s important to avoid cut & dry… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 50 responsive education wordpress themes for online courses, schools, kindergartens and universities 2020 next post: 60+ best clean & minimal wordpress themes for agency, portfolio, blog and corporate websites 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×