language english русский menu scholarship contact us search submit home education top 25 free online courses for freelancers top 25 free online courses for freelancers august 1, 2018 ( votes: 14 ) education, freelance0 find it useful12 comments have you ever wondered how to put your writing in hyperdrive? easy and super fun with these online courses! as a freelancer, you already know that working hard is not enough to bump up your prices. many industrious freelancers are underpaid. to boost your career, you need to leap into web courses and educational websites that will strengthen your freelancing mojo. want to know the best part? to improve your writing and financial management skills, as well as to learn nuts and bolts of freelancing, you don’t have to spend a dime! get started quickly with these informative and free online courses…even today. 1. skillshare admit it: any freelancer needs to learn cutting-edge skills to improve their online presence. this online study website offers a wide-range of accredited classes and courses that will help you to either start earning an income from home or dramatically increase your existing one. here’s the kicker: the courses are based on essential principles of interaction. it means that in addition to being free, they create an online community that allows learning to thrive. the main classes offered by the website focus on design, entrepreneurship, technology, and creative arts. 2. the crafty writer when it comes to taking a creative approach to your professional growth, the crafty writer is a no-brainer. it doesn’t matter whether you are a savvy freelancer or just starting. with these online lectures, you will learn how to write with flair. the cool thing is the lectures are suitable for everyone. the eight lectures cover topics such as mechanics of text, a point of view, character creation, marketing and much more. all materials are supplemented with free exercises that will help you to self-analyze complex elements of your writing. 3. writing for the web there is no better way to reach your $120k income goal than to learn how to write for the web. want to learn how to structure your writing for a webpage? the course will help you to accommodate the needs of your readers better, thereby increasing your rate. but that’s not all. by paying heed to these online classes for writers, you will be able to explore a host of freelance careers such as web copywriter, web designer, technical writer, and social media manager. 4. writing what you know if you don’t know where to take online classes to get you started on freelance writing, look no further—writing what you know is just perfect for you! it sounds too good to be true, but these classes are supplemented with a free statement of participation. after taking this 8-hour study, you will be able to incorporate sensory perceptions into your writing effortlessly. the online lectures will also strengthen your observation abilities and turn you into a keen creator of fictional worlds. 5. writing about race the notion of race is associated with numerous challenging issues and several vantage points that should be understood by freelance writers. try taking this class online to ensure that you don’t make any unpleasant verbal gaffes that don’t jibe with your audience. the class will help you to better understand the construction of racial identity by familiarizing you with works of morrison, diaz, and alexie. 6. english writing skills even experienced freelancers need to strengthen their writing muscles by practicing different styles. correct? improve your writing by learning how to express yourself creatively without putting a strain on your budget. after passing this course, you will be able to create instructional, analytical, reflective, and opinionative pieces with ease. still not convinced? those who score 80% or higher get free alison certificates. 7. introduction to time management learn online how to succeed in your freelancing endeavors by taking this neat time management course. have you ever felt overwhelmed by the demands of your freelancing career? don’t miss this course, which will provide you with basic principles of time management, thereby turning you into a professional of time optimizing. topic covered include the art of delegation, benefits of time optimization, prioritization, and planning. realize your dream of becoming a high-achieving freelancer one step at a time. 8. money essentials “i should govern my finances instead of being governed by them.” but how many freelancers are capable of making this true? not many, right? fortunately, money essentials is an easy-to-understand e-course that contains countless lessons on everything from budgeting to retirement funding. here’s the kicker: you will not have to register or pay tuition. the course is a completely free method of adding the extra boost to your current money skills. take it, and you will know exactly how to handle your money! 9. morningstar investing classroom can’t afford a financial advisor but want to know how to make informed investment choices? visit the morningstar investing classroom that will provide you with top-notch educational materials on topics such as stocks, funds, portfolio, and bonds. series of engaging lessons will teach you the importance of investing, how it should be done, and when to start. even though the course is not affiliated with colleges that offer online classes or other educational institutions, the reputation of morningstar speaks for itself. just start and see what happens! 10. planning for a secure retirement retirement planning is a challenging process the essentials of which should be figured out by every freelancer. visit planning for a secure retirement course offered by purdue university to ensure a comfortable retirement. although the course is not a substitute for years of persistence, it will get you started. interactive quizzing and helpful tools will help you to learn the ropes of retirement planning in a fun and effective way. but here’s something really interesting: each module of the course is only ten minutes long, which will save you a ton of time. 11. freelance taxation many freelancers are intimidated by challenges of the upcoming tax season. no more! these free online classes will eliminate your pesky tax procrastination habit and will teach you the correct way of paying self-employment taxes. the course is developed by a professional tax preparer susan lee who knows her way around deductions, planning, and other intricacies of taxation. neatly-organized information on receipt management and social security taxes will eliminate considerable obstacles to a smooth self-employed life. 12. copywriting masterclass to become a guru of freelance writing, try embarking on this innovative course from the comfort of your home. a series of hour-long lessons by doru catana will guide you through essentials and particulars of the copywriting process, thereby turning you into a pro. the course has been designed not only to teach the craft but also to instruct on getting high-paying jobs. 13. secret sauce are you tired of random gigs and want to learn how to create high converting pieces that will make you a star of the copywriting world? big news: secret sauce may be just right for you! the course is indispensable for those freelancers who struggle with elegance and simplicity of their writing. by the end of it, you will know how to write with craftsmanship that can be envied by journalists of the wall street journal. join many thousands of independent learners who have already broke out of their 9 to 5 jobs with the help of secret sauce! 14. the strategy of content marketing every freelancer has to grasp basics of content marketing in order to thrive in the highly-competitive marketplace. this online course is indispensable source of information for both novice and experienced freelancers who want to build their person brand. after five weeks of intensive study you will know how to incorporate a strategic framework into your content, thereby increasing its profitability. start right now! 15. how to write better headlines – for content, email & social writing catchy headlines is not an easy task. but you don’t have to worry. with this simple course, your headlines will rise above the informational noise of the web with ease. more than twenty thousand freelance writers have already passed the course. join their group and learn how to create headlines for social media homepages, and email. there are many online teaching sites but this one will help you to write vibrant and passionate headlines, thereby turning your web content into a point of opportunity. 16. seo 2018: complete seo training if you are no longer dabbling in freelance writing and want to make serious money, you absolutely have to learn basics of search engine optimization. the course created by a founder of cardinal path, will teach you hassle-free tricks for increasing visibility of your web content. resources available on the course’s website will help you to attract additional traffic to your pieces and measure success in real time. but wait—there’s more: find your ranking and discover how to optimize content. 17. follow your dreams course do you believe that following your dreams is essential for a fulfilled life? if you answer in the affirmative, then you will find this online classes absolutely captivating and enlightening. the quick and easy course is essential for getting in touch with spiritual side of freelancing. explore new intuitive paths and align your priorities with your true values by embarking on this educational journey. 18. design business foundations out of thousands accredited online schools, digital strategy is probably the most respectable one in the freelance community. don’t believe me? just take its free course on business foundations and see for yourself. the course is designed with freelancers in mind. therefore, it is perfectly suitable for taking your one-person business to new heights. if you’ve got time to invest in learning, the lessons offered by the school are well worth it! plus, you will get a free certificate to boast before your friends. 19. creativity, innovation and change who doesn’t love quick no-brainers? for as much as zero dollars you will be able to dramatically strengthen your creative muscles. enroll in this course and get high-quality online ed that will boost your creative charisma and supply you with endless recipes for innovation. let’s be clear about this—creativity is a skill. regardless of your current abilities, the course will accelerate the flow of your creative juices and turn you into an innovation machine. it will be a blast! 20. marketing analytics: marketing measurement strategy this information-packed course will immerse you in the world of marketing analytics. after four weeks, you will get you a handle on powerful methodologies and strategies for measuring, assessing, and analyzing marketing conditions. but here’s something really interesting: the course is video-centric. it means that by watching simple video lectures you will learn how to measure your marketing success and predict future trends. start right now! 21. diploma in web design many freelancers think that having a website is an effective way to promote their services. and they are right! learn how to create a professional-looking website by jumping on board of this free web development course. in ten to fifteen hours you will know everything there is to website creation from welcome screens to advance cascades and pseudo elements. most importantly: you will be able to celebrate your results with an official alison certificate. 22. adobe photoshop cc want to know how to excel in photoshop to garner more freelance gigs? study it online with this free online course for beginners. included are full tutorials on the basic and advanced tools of the photo editing software. after finishing the course, you will be fully versed in the application of photoshop to someone else’s and your own projects. start the journey to mastery of the software with this introductory lectures and never be intimidated by the visual dimension of the freelance trade. 23. going freelance: building and branding your own success freelancing can be overwhelming. now more than ever, freelancers need help to develop a strong portfolio that can catch a potential client’s eye. this easy-to-follow freelancing course will be your guide in the tempestuous world of self-employment. join almost twenty thousand students who are already learning how to pitch traditional and printed media, seize marketing opportunities, and create engaging content. 24. freelancer toolkit: collaborating with google sheets freelancers also need to collaborate sometimes. get in touch with your collective side by learning how to organize and share information with google sheets. after learning this online subject, you will surpass your peers by being one of the most technologically-savvy freelancers on the block. a bit of collaboration won’t hurt. right? 25. email marketing marketing comes in many shapes and forms. email is an essential channel of a forward-looking freelancer’s marketing mix. if you don’t know what to say, how to start, and what resources to employ, this course is a right place for you to start. each video lesson approaches quality of accredited online schools and helps you to develop an effective email marketing campaign. now that you know where to go to boost your freelancing mojo, it’s time to remind you about the importance and appeal of online learning. as a freelancer, you already aware of the fact that working from home provides you with a significant degree of freedom. the same applies to online learning. when you decide to get a degree online, you choose the type of lessons you take, time of the day, and most-importantly—pace. it doesn’t matter where your career as a freelancer is at this point; you can always advance it by taking one of the courses listed above and reading this freelance blog. good luck! related articles freelance work: 90 tips to find new leads online fast top 100 freelancer resources to manage the projects successfully how to become a freelance writer in 7 simple steps best 10 blog posts 2020 from freelancers freelance writing jobs: 300+ websites that pay alexandr timofeev alexander is an experienced blogger and copywriter. he has a master’s degree in english and german translation. during his studying, alex started writing short articles for his university’s newspaper. he enjoyed writing and decided to hone his skills in a personal blog. later he became an editor in a local publishing house. in his free time, alex usually plays video games. he’s also a fan of deep purple and queen and likes watching game of thrones. other posts by alexandr timofeev post navigation previous article next article comments (12) cancel reply name email will not be published comment i am not a robotpost comment samuel lusweti june 20th, 2019 - 6:32 pm i am a newbie here i need free lessons to freelancer reply alexandr timofeev july 1st, 2019 - 3:54 pm then this article is for you! i hope you will enjoy it. reply b. wati october 27th, 2019 - 4:52 pm i’m interested to learn how to be a successful freelance writer. reply alexandr timofeev october 30th, 2019 - 2:33 pm check out these posts: how to become a freelance writer in 7 simple steps and first freelance writing job: how to start working [strategy] thanks for stopping by! reply asma shoaib february 12th, 2020 - 4:34 pm i’m new here. and i want to be a successful freelancer. thank you. reply alexandr timofeev february 14th, 2020 - 11:52 am you’re welcome, asma! thanks for reading the article :) reply natasha march 9th, 2020 - 8:13 am very insightful, thank you. i think it’ll help me build my career as a freelancer. reply alexandr timofeev march 13th, 2020 - 6:23 am thank you, natasha! i’m glad you found the article helpful! :) reply ishaq march 21st, 2020 - 11:39 am i am new here with a master’s degree. i want to be a master in freelancing too. thanks for such a wonderful article. reply alexandr timofeev march 27th, 2020 - 7:11 am thank you for your kind words, ishaq! reply chris march 26th, 2020 - 12:18 pm i am relatively new to freelancing, i want to start from scratch, your blog is the first that has made so much sense to me, keep it up and do well to carry me along, i want to move from newbie to savvy freelancer in two years. reply alexandr timofeev march 27th, 2020 - 7:16 am good luck, chris! thanks for reading :) reply articles by category business copywriting education employment freelance productivity scholarship seo social media time management most popular articles top 25 free online courses for freelancers jul 3rd, 201812 0 the best 100 self-help websites for your personal development mar 10th, 20194 0 top 100 freelance job sites: find the best job opportunities mar 14th, 20189 0 freelance writing jobs: 300+ websites that pay jun 8th, 20186 0 30 goal setting tools that will help you achieve success jan 16th, 20180 0 best 44 apps and software for freelancers 2020 may 10th, 20184 0 60 useful copywriting templates dec 12th, 20184 0 business copywriting education employment freelance productivity scholarship seo social media time management ©2020 freelance writing blog please enable javascript for full functionality of this site it is necessary to enable javascript.