home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done resources for writers tips for writers by laura tong working out the greatest posts ever published on this blog wasn’t easy. in fact, it was a monumental task. so why do it at all? well, this year write to done is celebrating a milestone. back in 2009, mary jaksch became editor-in-chief. ten years on, and she’s helped make write to done one of the biggest and most respected writing blogs on the net. over that time dozens of writers have had their first break here, many of them later becoming bestselling authors and bloggers. so, after much coffee drinking, soul searching and balanced discussion (okay, arguing), we finally arrived at a definitive list of the top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done. of course this list is personal, not definitive. it leans towards the inspirational and motivational more than the practical. there’s a good reason for that. here at write to done we believe staying the course is more than half the battle. too many good and great writers are lost to private doubt and public criticism. so read these articles and find what you need to stay the course and get your message out to the world. enjoy. p.s. these posts are not in order. if your favourite posts didn’t make it into the list, you can vote for it in the comments. 1. how to strengthen your writing with strong opinions chris guillebeau chris is an amazing guy. he’s not only written several best-selling books, but he also hosts the world domination summit. in this post he helps writers overcome their fear of having a strong opinion and putting it out there. 2. how to recover from criticism (and eliminate it!) bryan hutchinson bryan is a successful author and founder of the award-winning blog, positive writer. in this powerful post he tells it as it is: “there is no critic in the world harder on you than yourself.” 3. warning! are you sabotaging your success as an author? c. s. lakin with thirty fiction and nonfiction books under her belt. c. s. lakin really knows what it takes to be successful as an author. as she says “writers face a daunting challenge”. but knowledge is power, and here she gives you the knowledge you need to ace that challenge. 4. how to succeed in writing when you’re not an expert in anything carol tice carol has successfully made a living writing for many years. in her blog and writing den she helps other freelance writers do the same. read this post and you’ll soon be on your way to joining them. 5. suicide, writer’s block, and doing the best you can mary jaksch mary has been editor-in-chief here at wrote to done for ten years and has written so many great posts, we had to send her out of the room to choose one. this was the result, a post that confronts writer’s block, and so much more. 6. the importance of knowing why you write barrie davenport barris is one of the best-known bloggers and authors in the world of personal development. read this post in her words, “if you would like to harness a deeper sense of purpose and fulfillment around your writing work.” 7. 7 barriers to writing you can leap over today bryan collins bryan’s blog is read by thousands of writers every day. it wasn’t always like that, making him perfectly placed to help you overcome the many challenges a writer faces. 8. the ultimate 10 step guide to plan and write your book ali luke ali has been a successful freelance writer and blogger for as many years as i can remember. she knows motivation isn’t enough on its own, you also need knowledge to get the job done. the trouble is a little knowledge is a dangerous thing. in this epic post, ali makes sure you have all the knowledge you need to get motivated, plan and write your book. 9. 50 ways to woo readers to your blog (and make them stay) courtney carver courtney is one of the best-known bloggers in the field of simplicity. she has built up her blog over time to be the go to resource for everything from capsule wardrobes to personal development. if you’re struggling to engage or attract readers, this post is a gem. learn this one essential skill all successful bloggers have in our free course 10. 3 famous authors who turned adversity into triumph dave chesson there are few people blogging today who know as much about succeeding as an author on amazon’s kindle platform. here dave shows us that technologies might change, but great writers have always met adversity head on – and triumphed. 11. forget about length, and focus on value danny iny danny is a legend in marketing circles, putting the passion and integrity back into a much maligned craft. this post shows exemplifies his philosophy for success as a blogger. 12. 12 tips to make your marketing copy sell dean rieck let’s not beat about the bush here, dean is a legend in copywriting circles. there is simply no one better qualified to show you how to make your marketing copy sell. 13. 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes glen long among other achievements, glen is one of the best editors out there. while managing editor at smart blogger, he analyzed thousands of posts to find out what really separates the good from the bad. 14.author marketing hell: 3 ways to avoid burning out nick stephenson nick is a best-selling fiction author who regularly hits the top spots in his genre on amazon. he’s done it not only through great writing but also great marketing – and all without burning out. 15. three words you should eliminate from your writing james chartrand sometimes a few simple changes can make a huge difference to your writing. in this post james, who runs the well-known blog men with pens, show you how eliminating just three small words form your writing can have a major impact. 16. here’s how you really make a living as a writer jeff goins jeff is on a mission to prove that real artists don’t need to live in a garret and starve. there’s a market out there for creatives, you just need to be savvy enough to know how to reach it. as he says “i noticed that successful creative people do a number of things unsuccessful people don’t do.” 17. know thyself. 7 truths about writers joanna penn joanna is an award-nominated, new york times and usa today bestselling author writing fiction and non-fiction. she’s also a successful blogger who knows you can’t afford to fool yourself if you want to earn your living as a writer. 18. how to find the courage to become an unstoppable writer laura tong i wrote this post to myself while struggling to find the motivation to bring my stalled book idea back to life. it seemed to strike a chord in many write to done readers who had begun writing full of excitement only to grind to a halt. 19. 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing leo babauta leo runs one of the most successful blogs in his space, zen habits. he also originally founded write to done. we could only include one post out of many, so this one edged through for its simple advice on where to find inspiration, some expected, some not so. 20. the pros and cons of comparing yourself to other writers k. m. weiland k. m.weiland has seen great success as a fiction and non-fiction author as well as with her award-wining blog. in this post she offers an even-handed and honest view of something most writers have struggled with: comparing yourself to other writers. 21. 3 unmissable tips to double your traffic from a blogging superstar jon morrow okay, a quick bonus post we had to include. it’s fair to say jon morrow is a legend in the blogging world. in this short post (an extract from an interview) he gives more brutal, honest advice than you’ll find in most 2,000 word articles. learn this one essential skill all successful bloggers have in our free course is your favorite post missing from the above list? if so, let us know what it is in the comments. tweet pin1 share87 88 shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch about the author laura tong laura tong is the editor here at write to done and her writing regularly features on such top blogs as huffpost, tiny buddha and of course write to done. she’s a published author (traditional and indie) and has written books as diverse as luxury travel, surreal fiction, autobiographical and personal development. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >