blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search xtechkr blog how to blogging guide tech news more android & ios pc & laptop windows blogger / wordpress seo top ten best [addictive] games in android to play in 2020 by xtechkr 0 share5 tweet share pin2 share 7 shares top ten “real” games on ios and android (10 best games). these are the best games that you must try on your device. these are the best games for 2020. these games will give you a thrilling experience. these are the top best android and ios games. these are best games for gamers like you. table of content 1 top ten “real” games on ios and android (10 best games) 1.1 10. shadow fight 2 1.2 9. terraria 1.3 8. limbo 1.4 7. asphalt 8: airborne 1.5 6. mortal kombat x 1.6 5. five nights at freddy’s series 1.7 4. minecraft pe 1.8 3. gta series 1.9 honorable mentions:- 1.9.1 dungeon hunter 5 (rpg) 1.9.2 eternium (rpg) 1.9.3 amazing spiderman 1 and 2 1.9.4 chameleon run 1.9.5 assassin’s creed identity 1.10 2. vainglory 5 v 5 1.11 1. pubgm top ten “real” games on ios and android (10 best games) 10. shadow fight 2 download qr-code shadow fight 2 developer: nekki price: free+ this game is a story-driven fighting game. it would have been higher on the list but this game has microtransaction (buying gems and stuff) so it is in no. 10. but its fun game for time pass. it is a nail-biting mix of classical fighting and rpg. this game lets you equip countless lethal weapons and rare armor sets, and features dozens of lifelike-animated martial arts techniques! as the thrilling fantasy storyline unfolds, you will fight numerous unique enemies and defeat evil demon bosses. 9. terraria download qr-code terraria developer: 505 games srl price: $4.99 terrraria is 2d open world game that has some minecraft elements. you can play with friends for fun. casual game. the game starts in a procedurally generated world. the player starts with three basic tools: a pickaxe for mining, a shortsword for combat, and an axe for woodcutting. many resources, notably ores, can be found while mining or exploring underground caves. the player begins with a limited amount of health and magic points, which can both be increased by finding certain items by exploring. 8. limbo download qr-code limbo developer: playdead price: $4.99 story driven indie horror game with the beautiful art style. pretty immersive game to play alone. limbo is a puzzle-platform video game developed by independent studio playdead. the game is presented in black-and-white tones, using lighting, film grain effects and minimal ambient sounds to create an eerie atmosphere often associated with the horror genre. 7. asphalt 8: airborne download qr-code asphalt 8: airborne - fun real car racing game developer: gameloft se price: free+ a gorgeous racing game with stunning graphics. very immersive and also has multiplayer. only disappointment is the micro-transaction. gameplay is similar to that of asphalt 7: heat, with the player given four control options: “tilt to steer” (auto-acceleration with movement controlled by tilting the device), “tilt and icons” (manual acceleration via an on-screen icon, with movement controlled by tilting the device), “on-screen controls” (auto-acceleration with movement controlled by an on-screen virtual steering-wheel), “tap to steer” (auto-acceleration with movement controlled by tapping the side of the screen). 6. mortal kombat x download qr-code mortal kombat developer: warner bros. international enterprises price: free+ gore fighting game with very good graphics and very bloody gameplay. best fighting game on mobiles. highly recommended if you like fighting games. the game allows two players to face each other (either locally or online), or a single player to play against the cpu. the game contains several modes, such as a story mode, several ‘tower’ modes, which feature dynamically changing challenges, numerous online modes, and the ‘krypt’, a mode played in a first-person perspective where players explore the areas unlocking a variety of in-game items. 5. five nights at freddy’s series download qr-code five nights at freddy's developer: clickteam usa llc price: $2.99+ fnaf has 5 games on mobile ( fnaf 1, 2, 3, 4 and sister location). very good horror game on the mobile platform. good graphics and immersive with a lot of jump scares. the series is centered on the story of a fictional restaurant named freddy fazbear’s pizza, a pastiche of restaurants. the first three games involve the player working as a nighttime security guard, in which they must utilize several tools. the fourth game takes place in the house of a child who must defend against nightmarish versions of the animatronics by closing doors and fleeing on foot. the fifth game takes place in a maintenance facility owned by a sister company of freddy fazbear’s pizza. 4. minecraft pe download qr-code minecraft developer: mojang price: $6.99+ the mobile version of minecraft. it has almost everything which is in the pc version. very fun to play with friends and a good way to spend your time surviving in the wild or creating something amazing. the creative and building aspects of minecraft enable players to build constructions out of textured cubes in a 3d procedurally generated world. other activities in the game include exploration, resource gathering, crafting, and combat. 3. gta series download qr-code grand theft auto: san andreas developer: rockstar games price: $6.99 the official gtas in mobiles and tabs including gta vc, sa, 3 and liberty city. grand theft auto (gta) is an action-adventure video game series. most games in the series are set in fictional locales modeled on cities. everyone knows about gta so nothing much to explain. honorable mentions:- dungeon hunter 5 (rpg) eternium (rpg) amazing spiderman 1 and 2 chameleon run assassin’s creed identity 2. vainglory 5 v 5 download qr-code vainglory developer: rogue games, inc. price: free best moba game on android and ios with very beautiful graphics and immersive gameplay. play with friends or alone. interactive community and developers. frequent updates and millions of fans hyped for the 3.0 update which has brought the 5v5. best game in my opinion. 1. pubgm download qr-code pubg mobile - 2nd anniversary developer: tencent games price: free+ pubg mobile x mission: impossible fallout. become a mission impossible secret agent now! the powerful unreal engine 4 creates a jaw-dropping visual experience with rich detail, realistic gameplay effects and a massive hd map for battle royale. feel like you’re in the thick of the action as you play with high-quality audio, immersive 3d sound effects and 7.1 channel surround sound. so these were the best games. if you have more other games then please do comment in the comment section below. hope you liked this. stay tuned for more new updates. see you in the next article! share5 tweet share pin2 share 7 shares subscribe to our newsletter! "it's all about android, ios, pc, gaming, rumors, blogging and tech news" subscribe! you have successfully subscribed! join our mailing list to receive the latest news and updates from our team. previous articlehow to increase website traffic? | get more valued audience next articlehow to run qbasic on android phones xtechkr https://www.xtechkr.com my name is kris regmi [xtechkr]. i'm the founder and owner of xtechkr. i am a student interested in blogging. xtechkr is basically a site where i post post’s about android, pc, gaming and much more. for now, i am studying in little angels' school. i have started this site not for profit but as a passion of mine. i heartily welcome everyone and thanks for giving time to visit my site. i am really happy to see you here! leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. about us xtechkr is a tech site where we provide you tech solutions. it is basically a platform where you can learn about android, pc, how to, rumors, games, tips, tricks, tech news and more. a simple blog that help with wordpress, seo, making money, blogging, gaming, how to, tips and tricks etc. follow us about us contact us disclaimer privacy policy terms of services © xtechkr - all rights reserved