skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » theme collections » top 31 girly & feminine wordpress themes for food blogs, magazines and ecommerce websites 2020 top 31 girly & feminine wordpress themes for food blogs, magazines and ecommerce websites 2020 january 19, 2020 aigars theme collections 8 comments looking for a beautiful feminine wordpress theme for your blog or website? we have chosen the best examples for any category, from a simple blog all way to multi-vendor ecommerce themes. the internet can be treated as the last great boy’s club, with a dismal female to male ratio across the board, making it sometimes hard to for a woman’s voice to stand out from the background noise, and making it even harder for a woman to find tools that empower her and her opinions in a way that is tailored to her needs. enter this list of powerful, flexible, and unmistakenly feminine wordpress themes. designed to elegant perfection, these themes will enable you to stand up and make yourself heard — on your own terms, in your own words, in your very own website. intuitive and customizable, they’re all here to make your internet foothold a firm one. feminine wordpress themes what exactly is a feminine theme? traditionally speaking, if your website has any of the following elements, it will fall into the “feminine” category of website design: light, diverse color palettes; beautiful typography; minimalism; stunning imagery; personal touch. what more does your theme need? in addition to having an overall soft feel to its visual design, any feminine theme will also require the high-quality functionality that is to be expected from all wordpress themes created by reliable theme developers. for instance, a theme must have a clean and secure code, built-in seo optimization, and custom post formats for sharing multiple content types. moreover, fostering a community feel with things such as an advanced commenting system, proper contact and subscribe forms, social media integration, and a forum section can add to the chic feel you are going for. lastly, easy customization options, translation support, responsive and retina-ready design, and large featured images are all things you should aim to have in your feminine theme. let’s look at the top trending female-oriented themes on the market today that offer you all of the above, and so much more. you’ll see that by using one of these feminine themes, your target audience will become more interested, come back more often, and share your content with like-minded people more regularly, thus boosting your traffic, your leads, your conversions, and possibly even your sales. rebel against the patriarchy today with one of these beautiful feminine wordpress themes. soledad soledad is a carefully designed and constructed theme built specifically as an infinitely versatile solution for all your blogging and online magazine needs. with its extremely easy usability, soledad will have you churning out professional-quality pages like it’s nobody’s business. this theme is also the only one out there designed with a uniquely sensitive approach to layout and styling, with endless options among the 250 included pre-designed homepage demos, over 100 blog and slider combinations and more than 250 customization options for all your elements. soledad knows you want to stand out, and it gives you the right set of tools and features for the job, ensuring your website will look unique and that your users will find your presentation to be memorable, making your content more palatable to all. soledad is all about the end-user experience, and as such, its smooth visual effects and superbly diverse graphical options will let you take your users anywhere you want to go. more info / download demo cheerup cheerup is a wonderfully creative solution for the blogging needs of webmasters all over the world, of any experience level or background. with cheerup, creating an engaging and visually impressive custom blog website is easier than ever before. this theme is a dedicated blog design platform that features a jaw-dropping, professionally designed array of gorgeous demo websites and page templates to get your blog started off on the right foot. although, cheerup truly shines when it comes to blog customization. with over 100 unique blog layouts, there’s hardly anything you would not want to express through your blog’s graphic environment. should the case arise, cheerup features a multitude of handsome header, footer, post and menu styling options that put you firmly in control of your website’s look and feel every step of the way. with cheerup, there is nothing that cannot be expressed in a uniquely favorable spotlight, making sure every word you blog gets the maximum exposure possible. try cheerup today, and feel your audience grow day by day! more info / download demo gillion (trending item) gillion is a wordpress theme oriented to magazines and publishing or writing aspects. it uses wpbakery page builder and unyson as framework. you can get it with 15 demos and a one-click install feature. the developers made gillion with a super potent admin panel that allows the customization of most of its aspects and elements. you get unlimited colors and multiple headers alongside many blog layouts. use its more than 12 custom widgets and set up social media icons too. gillion is seo improved and boot strap compatible. it even has a great quality support from google analytics! give a try to this amazing specialized tool. get gillion! more info / download demo jevelin jevelin is a clever and responsive wordpress premium multipurpose website theme. it’s a streamlined set of tools for crafting eloquent modern websites. jevelin is everything you need to build an effective online presence. flexible demo websites adapt to your every need within a matter of minutes. jevelin lets you customize every section of your web page with over 40 different elements and widgets. deploy portfolio showcases and engaging slideshows without breaking a sweat. a range of blog and portfolio layouts let you arrange your content at will. impressive modern section backgrounds are just a few clicks away. parallax background and scrolling, video backgrounds and much more are at your disposal. customize your portfolio single-item layouts to suit your needs. custom author pages and post styles allow your websites to express your own unique voice. branding and styling is made effortless with jevelin. extensive admin panel settings let you turn jevelin websites inside out instantly. widgetized sidebars, footers and more afford you the flexibility you need. social sharing features are built right into jevelin. honed for making your content viral overnight, users can like, share, comment, and more. integrated feeds bring your social media presence into your website. check out jevelin today, and find out! more info / download demo magplus magplus is a crafty wordpress theme built for anyone with a dream. it offers 30+ unique stylish demos with topic variations and a strong panel. with its responsive design, one-click import and hd video tutorials, customization is as easy as saying “yes”. magplus also offers unlimited colors, sidebars, blog pages and premium typography. build, arrange and post with a live customizer and codeless drag & drop functions. customize layout elements with 18+ headers, 4+ footers, 30+ shortcodes and the yellow pencil editor. monetary issues are processed with woocommerce plugin. this allows you to set up shops with everything from wishlists to carts included. magplus also supports basically every posting format. external platforms for videos such as vimeo, dailymotion and youtube and sliders are included. it is an seo-optimized tool with documentation and updates provided. go for it; choose magplus! more info / download demo divi divi is an incredibly customizable wordpress multipurpose theme built to suit all imaginable needs and requirements. regardless of the nature of your website or business, divi will always have your back. endless personalization with incredibly versatile plugins and tools make divi the theme of your personal or professional online dreams. the creators designed divi to be elegant and classy. they also designed its templates professionally to aesthetic and navigational excellence. divi’s unique, custom-page building interface allows you to create custom sections or modules with all sorts of shortcodes, plugin, and tool-powered functionalities, and then drag and drop these modules, or generally lay them out as you desire. divi is rich with tons of headers, footers, sliders, theme options, full translation in three dozen languages available, ecommerce integrated plugins, lightning-fast loading times thanks to divi’s enhanced, minimalist coding, search engine indexation optimization, guaranteeing more traffic and higher page rankings across the board, all while letting you easily build a home for yourself online, to your exact specifications and wishes. at this point, you’d have to ask yourself: is there anything divi can’t do? more info / download demo webify webify instantly adjusts to all sorts of different projects and intentions. that said, if you are on the hunt for the best feminine wordpress theme, webify becomes one with ease. in the kit of its 20 ready-made demos, you will surely find one that sparks your interest the most. from then on, you install the sample with a single click and you can already start using it. have in mind, while you can utilize webify out of the box, you can also edit and modify all its layouts to the very last detail. this allows for complete personalization of the web design. webify also practices all the modern web development trends and regulations, ensuring you a steady and secure operation of your page. additional goodies include over two hundred modules which you can mix and match with the default settings of the preferred demo. webify is packed with the amazingness, which will do you exceptionally well. more info / download demo laurie produce an elite page that gives you the edge over your competition. with the laurie feminine wordpress theme, your ideas become a reality hassle-free. it is elegant, minimal and clean-looking, enabling designers a promising platform for anything related to beauty. it also has all the features you are looking for when you want to make a business website. basically, you can use laurie for crafting mind-blowing blogs and online stores with a minimal touch. the layouts and demos are done meticulously to impress guests with your compelling content and items. you could freely access the laurie theme anytime, and it is fully responsive on all devices. coding is not a necessity so you can still make an amazing page without the sweat. thanks to the visual editor, you can modify and adjust the preferred demo real-time regardless of your prior experience. more info / download demo esben esben is a minimal feminine wordpress theme ideal for fashion photographers. of course, the versatility and adaptability of the theme go way beyond that, offering you to use esben for an assortment of different purposes. for as long as simplicity and straightforwardness are your cups of tea, esben is perfect for your project. out of the box, esben contains many different sample layouts which you can mix and match with your signature style effortlessly. the drag and drop method of editing does the trick and saves you time and effort. you will love esben for all sorts of different features and functions. besides the predefined layouts, it also gives you access to premium plugins at no additional cost, unlimited colors, impressive support and many custom-made shortcodes and widgets. you can also use esben to start a blog and sell your masterpieces online. more info / download demo hongo thanks to hongo’s high adaptability, you can utilize it as a feminine wordpress theme, too. keep in mind, hongo is a striking woocommerce tool that unlocks tons of options and possibilities out of the box. that’s right, even without doing too much tweaking, you can now craft the right online presence for selling all kinds of products. whether you would like to sell apparel, accessories or beauty products, you can do it all with ease by employing the powerful hongo. in the bundle, hongo delivers all the necessary components of a modern, elegant and sophisticated online store. it is also entirely adjustable and modifiable with the use of drag and drop page builder, wpbakery. visual editing ftw! some of the goodies include mini header, wishlist, 360-degree view, product compare and tons of custom widgets. to sum up, hongo is a very resourceful tool if you will. more info / download demo ultraviolette for establishing an elegant online portfolio, one tool is more than enough to sort out your ideas and wants. here is ultraviolette, a feminine wordpress theme with a contemporary and creative web design that will instantly spark your curiosity. and there are several different variations of it, giving you more than enough options to start your thing on the web without a hassle. many of you will enjoy using ultraviolette exactly as it comes out of the box and that is perfectly fine. however, to truly make a difference and differentiate yourself from the masses, introduce your custom tweaks to it. it is wpbakery page builder that gets rid of all the hassle of coding. loads of portfolio layouts, tons of shortcodes, many predefined widgets, slider revolution, three headers, boxed version and smooth transitions, ultraviolette is a serious deal. it also works great on all devices and browsing platforms, making sure your page runs all the time seamlessly. more info / download demo lirena lirena is a divine feminine wordpress theme for spa salons and beauty centers. the website skin treats you to three home samples, all stunning and very appealing to the eye. lirena also ensures a codeless process of web development thanks to the elementor page editor. how cool does that sound, to be able to code visually? moreover, lirena is also entirely compatible with wordpress’ native gutenberg block editor. however, you can easily turn back to the classic editor with a simple plugin if that is of your interest. extra specialties of lirena involve automatic theme updates, woocommerce shop, header builder, slider, online appointment form and testimonials. you can also capture their attention with newsletter subscription widget and start writing a blog. the latter is a great solution to give back to your community and even for content marketing. more info / download demo marigold with marigold, your website will always look blooming and fresh. showcase your web design with this feminine wordpress theme by utilizing its reliable tools and ready-to-use demos. it also enables bloggers, entrepreneurs and companies to boost their online presence and attract more customers, readers and shoppers. how does marigold do it? well, it has multiple sliders and post layout options to explore. choose between four predefined demos and get things going online strong. also, you can benefit from widgets and other traits like newsletters, advertisements, categories and more. it has a front-end framework that speeds up the process of web development. expect your website to have a translation-ready interface for your visitors overseas. besides, marigold is also fully compatible with the woocommerce plugin for building attractive online stores. need support? marigold is pretty much the epitome of reliability. more info / download demo opinion not only is the color choice perfect, the structure and the feel of opinion make it a superb feminine wordpress theme. whatever concept you would like to actualize, it is opinion that will assist you on your adventure to the success you always wanted to see for yourself. this neat, tidy and modern theme is a great alternative that will help you go against the norm and hook everyone that ever visits your spectacular website. and you do not even need to be a coder nor a designer to reach those results. with opinion, everyone can craft an elegant and trendy page that will become a platform for your always impressive content. some of the features you are treated to are four samples, flexible theme options, predefined ad spots for monetization and an instagram feed. along with the comprehensive step-by-step setup guide, opinion users also get help from the experts for you to get the most out of the tool more info / download demo makenzie makenzie is a visually appealing feminine wordpress theme. it is a versatile tool that you can use for all sorts of projects and intentions. from small personal blogs to even bigger news portals you would like to start or maybe later grow to. makenzie handles it all. it is a powerful tool that does not have any issues managing and bringing to life your blogging ideas and scale them above and beyond. the super kit of predesigned goodies includes different home styles and all other internal pages. there is no need to craft anything on your own since makenzie has it all prepared and ready to utilize. other than that, you have the freedom to customize and adjust the look of it however you see it fit your branding best. a ton of features and assets come along, like social media buttons, promo boxes, coding-free live customizer, and woocommerce compatibility. get your word out with makenzie. more info / download demo foodica foodica is a beautiful wordpress food blog theme. this theme is a pliable theme that has been gifted with the sheer strength and raw flexibility to seamlessly service all sorts of requirements and needs across a broad range of website archetypes, but that has been uniquely crafted for the purpose of sharing and enjoying food-related content to a vast online audience of like-minded souls. it packs all the features you’d expect of a well-balanced theme, including a visual page builder that is very simple and easy to use with plenty of handy sections for building your website. it has image galleries, image lightboxes and such to the more specifically convenient, like ingredients shortcodes, or directions shortcodes, so you can quickly and effortlessly share recipes with friends and strangers or the world at large. the developers carefully crafted foodica to be a sublime experience for the senses, making it a perfect theme for the more feminine websites and audiences out there. more info / download demo bridge with our collection of the best feminine wordpress themes, you are assured that your website will be of the highest quality. by choosing bridge as your go-to tool, you can set up the desired online presence for your project almost instantly. especially if you go with the material that bridge has ready-made for you, you only need to add your content and you are done. yes, it is that simple. however, even if you decide to modify the web design you fancy, it still stays at the same level of simplicity. after all, you need no coding and no design knowledge to use bridge and enter the industry with a bang. bridge is 100% mobile-ready and in tune with all major web browsers. it is also optimized for fantastic performance, making sure it delivers first-class user experience. bring your idea to fruition once and for all. more info / download demo monisa monisa is a wonderful, modern and elegant feminine wordpress theme for weddings and other wedding-related intentions. there are multiple predefined home pages at your disposal, all set and ready to put them to use. you can even use monisa for selling goods online. in short, the options are very many once you unbox monisa and find all the specialties it brings to the table. to top it all up, you can also tweak it with the drag and drop page builder. invitations and announcements, stunning galleries, multiple shortcodes, mega menu and sticky header are only a fracture of all the treats that you will find in the monisa kit. the layout is also mobile-ready, retina-friendly and compatible with popular web browsers. whether you are using monisa for a soon-to-be-married coupled or purely for business, you can make it both and then some. more info / download demo malina all the ladies out there who are searching for a feminine wordpress theme for building a blog, you better not miss malina. this spectacular and highly popular tool comes with an enormous set of features that will get the ball rolling in no time. there are ten different demos/concepts available for you to use them as is or edit them accordingly. speaking of editing, you can easily make corrections and improvements with the use of elementor page builder. that said, malina is for everyone, as you do not need to have any skills with building websites. social media integration, five headers, two hero sections, slider revolution, one click installer and different widgets are all the different treats of malina. your blog will also operate without a hitch on smartphones, tablets and desktops, as well as different web browsers and retina screens. more info / download demo carrino carrino is another striking and impactful feminine wordpress theme that comes perfect for hammering out a blog. it does not really mean what topics you would like to cover since carrino caters to all niches and industries. for a quick start, carrino offers you nine remarkable demos, all fully functional and easy to use. if it interests you, feel free to use it out of the box and experience a site building process that takes just a few minutes. you do not really need to be a pro coder to be able to work with carrino. anyone can! more of the handy features that you get come as sticky header, seven sidebars, back to top bar, instagram feed and a full ecommerce section. yes, with carrino, you can also sell products online and introduce a second stream of income. more info / download demo juliet juliet is a specialized blogging wordpress theme. easy to set up and personalize. the creators designed juliet to have a girly and elegant concept, beautiful and yet appealing. it comes with several options for pictures display such as banners and sliders. you will get the very special look book template to back you up in all ideas. as expected for the theme, they carefully chosen typography and backgrounds with +600 awesome google fonts and google analytics image/color integration for style. also, they made juliet with many blog layouts and special posts designs. it also comes with a built-in system to relate posts suggestions based on activity. juliet comes in a one-page scrolling format with up to 4 posts to display at once. instead of separated columns, you get one simple space. it is a woocommerce and bootstrap compatible theme. moreover, you can do immediate translations with it through wpml and support css. juliet has multiple blog layouts and has special headers and footers integrated. you will get jetpack integration to make social media sharing completely customized. furthermore, special plug-ins compatible to add-on include; mailpoet, and vimeo / youtube slideshows. juliet is a special personal and customizable space for you to express. start writing and expressing with juliet! more info / download demo capri capri is a beautiful wordpress theme, built the fulfill the needs of a great variety of websites. woocommerce ecommerce plugin integration will turn your website into your personal online storefront with ease. retina ready and natively responsive thanks to incorporation of the potent and flexible bootstrap framework, capri looks gorgeous, no matter who’s viewing it and on what device or browser. additionally, capri has dozens of included page types, including personal or corporate blogs, professional or content post portfolios, product galleries, interactive featured product carousels, parallax static pages, powerful html5 and css3 platforms built right into the code, a lightweight coding style for speedy page loading, seo optimization like you wouldn’t believe and a deeply fashionable sense of style, capri is a true all terrain theme, that will take you wherever you need to go, in impeccable style. more info / download demo shasta shasta is a very specialized wordpress theme. you can best use this theme if you’re a lifestyle blogger. it offers 4 pre-built frontpage layouts and several templates. you will find a theme ready for customizations. shasta also comes with a minimalistic and modern concept and lots of documentation. the developers made this theme to support all kinds of post formats. shasta can show interactive posts and cool subpages and get people to subscribe. shasta uses parallax and many animations to customize backgrounds. it also has unlimited options for both typography and colors. this way you can create beautiful designs all over. shasta is a great tool for blog posts and image display of all kinds. moreover, it can create an ambiance to convince people what you say is sacred. chose a topic of any kind and you’ll have the best platform to use. shasta is retina ready pixel perfect and responsive. it has a banner that allows video posts, and some custom widgets too. have fun playing with content pages and galleries. they also optimized shasta for seo and made it contact form 7 compatible. start out telling your life experience and advises with this incredibly powerful tool. get people dazzled with shasta! more info / download demo the voux the voux is a clean wordpress news and magazine theme. this theme packs sophisticated technology to make your website run smooth as silk. bootstrap makes the voux incredibly natively responsive, meaning your website will display just right, no matter who’s viewing it on what screen, device, browser or platform, you’ll reach them all! social sharing isn’t just built into the voux, the voux builds social sharing into wordpress itself–you’ll be able to store your social sharing data in a backend cache for as long as you need, allowing you to even monitor the numbers from the backend! infinite loading and scrolling on news articles means your visitors can simply scroll right beyond the end of their current read and delve right into the next one, while the browser’s url even updates itself automatically to match the already loaded content! seamless navigation takes a whole other meaning with the voux. install the voux today, and stop screaming for attention! more info / download demo marjetka it is very common to find themes that look girly but are still lacking in womanliness. it really makes a difference when developers are passionate about what they do. this strongly applies to marjetka, a feminine wordpress theme that helps you catch more visitors and potential clients. its goal is to create a crisp-looking, well-organized website basically for fashion and lifestyle bloggers. marjetka is also fully responsive with well-organized and classic designs utilizing the most relevant colors. all designs will match your blogs naturally, underlining the thematic focus of your concepts. you get access to eight demos which will quickly define your online presence. of course, each is entirely customizable so enrich it with your style until it meets your heart’s content. more info / download demo zarja zarja is a creative wordpress feminine blog website theme, ideal for female webmasters wishing to set up their own personal website or blog of any interest or concentration. it’s flexible and accommodating, while visually homey and intimate, making your viewers feel right at home on your website. clean and crisp in its design, yet cozy and homey in its attentive details, zarja is a feminine theme for a modern lady. this theme comes packed with features to set up your website effortlessly and with basically no coding skills required. also, zarja includes 5 different home page variations on top of 7 custom post templates, an instagram feed, seo optimization and improved readability thanks to google fonts, an amazing eye for detail, incorporating subtle transitions and animations all over zarja’s many elements, illustrating a material design philosophy. spartanly clean and infinitely customizable, zarja is a canvas for your most personal dreams to come true on the web. custom headers, the revolution slider premium plugin, and a natively responsive cross-platform design for optimal navigation in every case, zarja’s a theme fit for a queen, a mother, a businesswoman, a freelancer… there’s hardly a lady that can’t make herself at home with zarja. more info / download demo anemos anemos is a stunning wordpress multiuse blogging website theme. this theme has been designed to service a broad range of blogging website types and kinds thanks to its wpbakery page builder integration. you can also use this theme perfectly for servicing handsome, modern photography blog websites, photoblogs, photo journals and websites in similar, related fields of interest. additionally, a modular architecture based on twitter’s own bootstrap design renders anemos entirely responsive, adapting your pages to fit all devices and platforms instantly and natively without writing a line of code. with incredible features like smooth parallax vertical and horizontal scrolling, integrated slider sections, impressive gallery options, thorough and conscientious seo coding from the ground up and tons of widgets, anemos is ready to show your photography to the world! more info / download demo moneyflow moneyflow is a modern businesslike wordpress theme, suitable for anyone seeking to establish their financial independence via internet-based revenue streams. it’s is a theme for those who want to keep the ball rolling and the dollars coming in, with every feature and tool in it existing solely for the purpose of increasing your profits. moneyflow looks good, handles well, but earns best. the developers also added an easy one-click installation process, after which you can implement boundless combinations of typographical, color and design modification choices using the powerful admin panel. moneyflow is also integrated with woocommerce out of the box, meaning you’ll be turning a profit in your online marketplace right off the start, within a day of setting up shop. search engine optimization maximizes the traffic netted from search results by better indexing your content in every section of your website. furthermore, adsense integration out of the box lets you turn those eyeballs into actual cash, painlessly and hassle-free. full cross-platform, cross-browser responsive design, a gorgeous off-canvas menu, parallax scrolling, mega menu and subscribe pro compatibility, advanced sliders and full translation capabilities round out this amazing theme nicely. moneyflow makes sure you are raking it in! more info / download demo vixen vixen is an easy to use wordpress feminine blog and portfolio theme, founded on the notions of intuitiveness, elegance, and femininity. it’s a crafty theme for crafty gals, readily customizable while preserving always a delicate, feminine touch. vixen simplifies all aspects of building your website and puts the power in your hands with powerful admin panel tools and thorough, accessible documentation. the creators also built this theme for speed. cleverly minimalist coding incorporating the latest technologies enables vixen to offer the fastest page loading times around the block, meaning your website will load faster than everyone else’s, your server loads and costs will be kept low, and your users won’t wait a second to access what you’ve got to show them. additionally, search engine optimization means search engine tools properly index every part of your portfolio or blog, greatly improving your performance in terms of page rankings. this in turn guarantees a higher amount of traffic, ad revenue, exposure, and everything that comes along with that. made to be readable, vixen delivers your content responsively, adapting it to the screen of all devices in existence. overall, vixen looks attractive and handles like a pro–you’ll never go wrong with vixen. more info / download demo frida frida is a sweet wordpress blog theme, designed for the needs of creative personalities of all types. this them is flexible and powerful, while remaining delightful and light. frida is modern in capacity yet classic in design, with a gorgeous aesthetic permeating its layouts and schemes. it also includes many powerful features, such as numerous post styles, custom css3 effects, custom html5 implemented features, numerous custom widgets, which you can easily manipulate with the advanced admin panel customization options and with no coding skills required. moreover, the developers are continually expanding and updating frieda. you can now use extensively customizable header and footer bars. you can dock this theme with a lot of widgets as you desire, as well as limitless sidebars. this theme also offers responsiveness at the drop of a hat, thanks to incorporated mobile device settings. furthermore, multiple fonts and custom social media sharing icons, handsome, artistic transition effects, and a zest for life round off this impressive, artistic, feminine theme with a real sensibility and actual technological prowess. additionally, the developers included sticky headers, advanced image and google maps widgets. frida paints a pretty picture. more info / download demo spa lab spa lab is an attractive wordpress theme, ideal for the needs of hair salons, wellness centers, meditation and yoga lessons, and many other kinds of beauty and healthcare-related businesses. it is flexible, intuitive and easy to use, while remaining modern, fresh-faced and appealing in every instance. spa lab is malleable, and easily bends to your every whim, becoming exactly the website of your dreams in a few simple, easy clicks, drags and drops. the developers at spa lab packed this theme with crucial features for your venture, such as two types of menu card designs, reservation systems, gift cards, product showcase galleries, custom online shop pages with ecommerce plugins. you can spread news through blog pages while newsletter systems will engage your audience and keep them loyal and returning. you can also use spa lab to have access to limitless branding opportunities, including custom colors, logos, social media links and icons, contact information, product and service pricing guides, and many more ways to make your website your own. spa lab is stylish and elegant, to match your business, while modern and fully responsive natively, owing to a powerful bootstrap framework design, rendering your website in full glory to all visitors on all devices and platforms, from desktops and laptops to tablets and mobile phones, spa lab gets you the exposure you want. in conclusion, tune up your business with spa lab! more info / download demo thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. blogbootstrapecommercefemininegenesisgirlymom blogsmultipurposepersonal blogwoocommerce share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts 37 best wordpress themes with rtl support 2020 searching for the best rtl wordpress theme for your blog, business or news website? here… 8 multi-vendor wordpress woocommerce themes creating a multi-vendor marketplace website like amazon, alibaba, and ebay has been becoming very trendy.… top 10 wordpress saas themes for your digital business today’s customers have high expectations. they expect fast responses and quick results. with the list… it is time to comply with gdpr! check 30 gdpr compliant wordpress themes the internet community is growing day by day, and the bigger it becomes, the more… top 21 lifestyle blog wordpress themes 2020 if you are reading this article you are that person, who would like to launch… 20 best wordpress themes for mom bloggers for your inspiration for those of you who are considering that starting a mom’s blog isn’t worth an… this post has 8 comments tiffany griffin says: at what a nice roundup! a good portion of these i’ve actually never come across, so that’s pretty awesome. i’m really digging crafty vixen. reply dotty says: at you don’t seem to list the theme that you show in the header image “papaya”. what theme is this? thanks reply aigars says: at that theme is called capri and you can find it here. this particular theme demo is called papaya but the theme itself is called capri. very confusing thing done by the theme developer but at least now you know the answer 🙂 reply mimoza says: at i would like to get a advise about my fashion website . i would like to use wp but there is too many choices and not sure whats the best…my business will be importing from us and uk fashion , vintage and retro inspired from 1950’s and 1960’s and the theme must be feminine . please help with some suggestions. thank you reply aigars says: at mimoza, i can recommend divi, uncode and jevelin. themes are not femine based on their design but images are what makes your website feminine. images on your website are 90% of the design and chaning default theme images will change your website completely. reply monique conner says: at hello love the round up of these very feminine beautiful themes. speaking as someone who is technically challenged when it comes to wordpress, i would love a suggestion based on the functionality. i love the following site and would like to know who i can create it. i am looking for a clean website, white background, luxurious elegant feel and want to be able to have a pop up for a name and email collection, i am not sure if that is a plug in or part of a theme i also want to have my blog to be accessed by clicking on the top and accessing it as opposed to it being scrollable on te home page. i want to have my own fonts and my colors according to my brand. out of all of the themes i looked at i liked vixen reply aigars says: at popups are created using plugins and there are many options for that. we use optinmonster on our website but there are dozens of free alternatives as well. other option you might consider is gillion but your named things can be done with virtually any themes as those are basics for premium themes. reply jenny says: at hello i am trying to select a them with feminine and vintage touches that is also responsive allows for buttons to share posts through social media, allows for several pictures with my posts..easily utilizable with a seamless look..but there are so many choices! help! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 20 free wordpress gallery plugins for photography websites 2020 awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 40+ wordpress themes for it companies and tech startups 2020 next post: 21 best wordpress themes for dance studios 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×