home subscribe about lead to win™ speaking blog coaching the focused leader® full focus planner® leaderbooks™ careers team permissions policy terms & conditions support contact about podcast coaching blog subscribe planner more listen now leadership top 10 tips for leveraging an executive assistant michael hyatt download transcript so you think you think you might need an executive assistant, but you’re not sure where to start? here’s help! suzie barbour, our former executive director of operations, and tricia sciortino, ceo of belay, team up to answer your questions about how to get this done. fun fact, both suzie and tricia used to be my virtual assistants! they’ll answer these questions and more. when is the right time to hire? how do i find a reliable assistant? what competencies should i look for? what character traits should my assistant have? could a virtual assistant work for me? how do i get started working with an assistant? they also take a deep dive on their top-1o tips for working with an executive assistant. get the details behind these reality-tested ideas: get an executive assistant! over-communicate. empower your executive assistant with information from the very start. set clear expectations and goals. be highly responsive. fill the gap with trust listen when your executive assistant challenges you. get to know your executive assistant. show appreciation. give ownership. once you’ve listened to this episode, be sure to visit belay for free downloadables and lots more practical insight into working with an assistant. remember, this is the most important hire you’ll ever make! resources from this episode your world-class assistant: hiring, training, and leveraging an executive assistant by michael hyatt belay “25 things you can delegate to an assistant,” free download from belay. text “leadtowin” (all one word) to 31996. resources download transcript rate & review podcast how to subscribe your world-class assistant by michael hyatt belay solutions “25 things you can delegate to an assistant,” free download from belay. text “leadtowin” (all one word) to 31996. posted on thursday, december 12, 2019 disclosure of material connection: some of the links in the post above are “affiliate links.” this means if you click on the link and purchase the item, i will receive an affiliate commission. regardless, i only recommend products or services i use personally and believe will add value to my readers. i am disclosing this in accordance with the federal trade commission’s 16 cfr, part 255: “guides concerning the use of endorsements and testimonials in advertising.” mh about michael team careers media hits contact support products the focused leader leaderbooks ff-icon-white created with sketch. full focus planner best year ever free to focus get published platform university ff-icon-white created with sketch. compass resources coaching speaking tools books images publication podcast blog ©2020 michael hyatt. privacy policy terms and conditions permissions policy rss feed