skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 15 review plugins for wordpress with schema markup 2020 top 15 review plugins for wordpress with schema markup 2020 march 17, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 13 comments online reviews have become one of the biggest monopolies of the modern technology era. the number of review sites has grown exponentially, but there is no way to distinguish between legitimate and illegitimate reviews at any given time. even sites like amazon are known to be full of reviews from paid people. a discount or a special offer to leave a simple—and preferably good—review about the service you are using is pretty hard to resist. this is the kind of strategies that businesses have started to employ in recent years. online reviews are probably the best source of business for any online entrepreneur. nothing beats a good customer review that embraces the full and personal experience of the user giving the review. embracing your own online reviews is also an important part of the success of a business. knowing how to react and respond to certain reviews is crucial. the following review plugins for wordpress allow you to integrate, organize, publish, and respond to online reviews and testimonials directly from your customers. this is with the exception of a select few that integrate reviews from third-party sites. some plugins allow you to become a reviewer yourself. they offer features that let you review products, businesses, and things like books on your own wordpress site. sometimes, it’s a hassle to put together good-looking review posts without a previously built template. if you have an idea for a wordpress website but don’t know how to create one, you might want to read our detailed wordpress website setup guide. wiremo wiremo is a customer review plugin that provides spaces for customer feedback. it works for physical products and services websites and is connected through social media on facebook, twitter, and g+. it has two versions, that is, with basic and enhanced features. overall, both versions provide 24/7 custom support. for the layout, you can scroll down a one-page design. wiremo also uses free widgets and a powerful dashboard to display all information. posts can be seen as lists of items to click on. you get a banner set of images or even publicity! this plugin connects more with clients and features blogs, faqs, and custom review posts. it is user-friendly with free and constant updates. it is also fast and responsive, thanks to its seo integration. this makes it cross-browser-compatible and adaptable to all screens, too. you have the option to get a free trial. try any of its versions, and if you like the basic, go advanced for $9.99 a month. book blogger book blogger is a review plugin for book readers. if you’re an avid book reader that writes book reviews, try upgrading your book review software. the book blogger plugin is a simple review platform. it offers custom prebuilt fields for reviews that will blow your audience away. with features like automatic data fetching from google books and goodreads, you will be saving a lot of time. you can easily curate essential information about the books you are reviewing. for heavy readers, there is an option to review multiple books at the same time. you can further extend book blogger with the use of widgets, such as a social media follower box. also, you can display the kind of books you are reading at any given moment or list your recent reviews. if you want to one-up yourself, you can always display the number of books you read within 365 days! site reviews you know that adding reviews to your website can benefit your overall business tremendously. of course, if they are positive. reviews and testimonials build trust in potential customers and might just be the last bit of information they need to get in touch with you or make a purchase. to simplify the process of adding reviews to your page, site reviews is the wordpress plugin that will take care of it. it allows your users to submit their reviews accompanied by a 5-star rating system. core features of site reviews are pagination, support for asian languages, comprehensive documentation and configurable widgets. no doubt, it will take you little time to make the review plugin go live on your website. there is also google’s recaptcha on the submission form to prevent spam. wp customer reviews regardless of the type of business you run, you can implement reviews and share with the world what amazing experience your clients and customers had working with you or purchasing from you. whether it is a service, software or product, with wp customer reviews, you can introduce both customer testimonials and product/software reviews. what’s cool about this wordpress review plugin is the fact that you get to decide which review you would like to display and which to skip. this way, you can avoid adding negative comments which may harm your business. other goodies that the tool brings to the table are full customization, compatibility with wordpress multisite and caching plugins, spam protection and shortcodes. for your information, wp customer reviews is lightning fast, making sure not to slow down your website, keeping the outstanding performance intact. google reviews widget as the name suggests, google reviews widget is a simple to use review plugin for wordpress that adds google business reviews to your page. moreover, it is a widget, so you can easily add it to the sidebar or even other locations of your web space. a neat function of google reviews widget is that it stores all the google reviews that you import in the wordpress database. this way, the reviews are live at all times regardless of what is happening with google. google reviews widget is a free plugin for wordpress but there is also a premium addition to it for when you would like to unlock even more features. the plugin is seo-friendly, allows you to trim longer reviews with a read more button and can show up to five google business reviews per location. it is also compatible with light and dark themes, mobile devices and modern web browsers. wp review wp review is a convenient review plugin for wordpress that will save you time and energy when creating new content. if you are a blogger or you run a review websites, this plugin helps you put together reviews for products and services. along with the in-depth text, you can also add star rating, percentage or point rating. additionally, wp review is fully translatable so you can use it with any language you want. out of the box, wp review delivers two different box templates which you can customize further. from basic to modern, it is up to you how you would like reviews to appear on your website. moreover, the layout is 100% responsive and flexible, supports unlimited colors and is fully congruent with caching plugins and a bigger part of all modern wordpress themes. if you would like to start releasing a new type of content, wp review is a tool that will get you going. facebook reviews if you would like to add facebook reviews to your website, here we have a plugin that does just that. and the installation and activation processes are so simple, anyone can do it. on top of that, facebook reviews plugin is free of charge and available just a click away. bear in mind, to make it work, you need to have admin rights of the facebook page for the plugin to pull out the reviews. also, it works with the facebook graph api. when all is set, you will see facebook reviews appear on your page almost instantly. some other features of facebook reviews extension are pagination, shows reviews per location and even trims longer texts with the read more button. it is also in tune with the majority of modern themes for smooth integration. customer reviews for woocommerce when running an online store on woocommerce, you would want to add customer reviews to boost sales. with social proof via reviews, you can build trust and raise your potential of winning over more customers. thanks to customer reviews for woocommerce, you can now introduce reviews to your ecommerce website. not just that, everyone who maks a purchase, this review plugin for wordpress/woocommerce will encourage them to leave an honest review. there are other great features and functions that come with customer reviews for woocommerce for you to take to your advantage. aggregated review form, review for discounts, trust badges and an option to import reviews are just a few of the goodies that come along with customer reviews for woocommerce. avoid leaving money on the table, introduce reviews and see sales go up. rich reviews by adding reviews to your website, not only can your potential customers get first-hand information from existing buyers, but search engines learn more about the quality of your products and services, too. rich reviews is a free wordpress review plugin that helps you get the review thing sorted out on your website once and for all. even if you are running marketing campaigns and use landing pages, rich reviews’ shortcode quickly introduces the necessary reviews for building customer trust. rich reviews features three types of reviews, per page or post, category-based and global. you, as the admin, also have complete control over which reviews you would like to add and which to exclude. after all, you do not really want to use poor reviews; instead, focus mainly on the positive ones. moreover, rich reviews also comes with a review schema that triggers google and other search engines to display rating stars. reviews and rating if you have a google business account with tons of positive reviews and ratings, wouldn’t it be awesome to have those displayed on your official website, too? thanks to reviews and rating, you can now include them without a sweat. this wordpress reviews and ratings plugin does all the hard work for you. after all, you only need your unique id to copy and paste to the plugin and that’s pretty much all the necessary work. the plugin also urges your new customers to leave a google business review. some of the features of reviews and rating are shortcode, widget, 28 designs, live preview, amazing customization functions and an option to show and hide reviews. the layout of the reviews will also be 100% responsive and mobile-ready, working flawlessly on all popular devices. recencio book reviews there are loads of review websites out there, all kinds, and reviewing books is surely a popular niche. if you are an avid reader or you run a food blog where you would also like to review some cookbooks, recencio book reviews is the plugin for you. of course, when it comes to reviews, the mentioned are just an example. there are also tons of different niches and industries that this extension works with flawlessly. what’s more, recencio book reviews can also earn you money by adding your affiliate links. other functions of the plugin are custom post for reviews, fetch book details automatically via isbn (or add manually), 5-star rating and five different widget types. additionally, readers can also leave a comment on your review and rate it accordingly. recencio book reviews is translatable and gdpr compliant, too. easy testimonials easy testimonials’ users enjoy the extensive list of testimonial features that lighten up the business experience for business owners and customers. it is an easy-to-use plugin that allows users to add testimonials to the sidebar as a widget or to embed them into a page or post using a shortcode. it also allows you to insert a list of all testimonials or output a random testimonial. easy testimonials allows you to include an image with each testimonial. this is a great feature for adding a photo of the testimonial author. handsome testimonials the thing with many wordpress plugins is that sometimes it’s not about the functionality of each individual plugin, but rather the way it looks on our own choice of themes. the handsome testimonials plugin offers a more sleek option for displaying reviews and testimonials on your site by offering a range of modern and design-optimized review box choices. use the testimonial generator to get real-time previews of the kind of testimonials you want to display on your website. tripadvisor tripadvisor is, without question, one of the most recognized names when it comes to business reviews. unfortunately, at this time, there is no real support for wordpress users. part of the reason is that tripadvisor itself provides a widget feature, which is basically a simple script generator for your business. it outputs the basic review information about your business, providing the option to display full reviews. this is definitely not the most convenient way to display reviews, at least for sites that are not so dynamic and content-friendly. any other technique will require a developer. wp product review pro the guys at themeisle have built a spectacular product review plugin to help webmasters review products in a simple and tasteful manner. whether it’s the latest book by stephen hawking or the latest iphone release that you are reviewing, wp product review pro focuses on helping you build reviews that explain the essentials of the product you are reviewing while outlining the good and bad parts. your community members can also become a part of each review and leave comments and their own experience reports regarding the particular product, thus helping you to generate more content at no cost at all. there are no restrictions for the way you can use this plugin, so you could very well use it to showcase your own products and collect reviews for them. then, use the built-in widget features to display the reviews across the site. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. reviewwordpress plugin reviewwordpress plugins share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts 10 amazing wordpress login plugins for your website the login or sign up section is essential to earn more users and visitors on… top 13 free and premium content syndication plugins for wordpress coming up with ideas, researching ideas, writing about ideas, and finally publishing ideas, each part… 16 must-have buddypress plugins for online communities 2020 wordpress serves as a platform for many different kinds of websites, including social networking sites.… 13 amazing paid wordpress advertising plugins 2020 your website is growing steadily, which means that the time has come to look into… the best wordpress notification bar plugins for 2019 notification bars are the narrow strips that appear at the top of the screen. generally… a beginner’s guide to essential (free) wordpress plugins wordpress plugins have a number of different purposes. wordpress is an easy-to-use, reasonably powerful content… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners 23 best wordpress footer management plugins for 2020 the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: top 18 google plugins for wordpress blogs 2020 next post: 16 efficient event calendar plugins for wordpress 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×