home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles london travel prevnext top seasonal family friendly holidays whatever the weather leyla preston fri 5th oct 2018 1shares share tweet pin family holidays can offer some of the most enjoyable and memorable times in your life, and sometimes it doesn’t matter where the destination is, the journey with your family holds a special place in your heart. i love family holidays and these below seasonal holiday ideas are, in my opinion, some of the best ways to spend time with the family, whatever the weather. table of contents taking a trip to the beach take a family tour to india having a barbecue visiting a winter holiday destination take the family on a cruise holiday take a trip to central london (photo by tomas preston, preston perfect photography) (photo by tomas preston, preston perfect photography) taking a trip to the beach (photo by tomas preston, preston perfect photography) my parents originate from north cyprus and i have grown up holidaying on some very beautiful beaches there. the beach provides so much entertainment for the family, whether it’s making sandcastles, basking in the sun, or diving into the very refreshing sea on a hot day. sometimes, a trip to the beach can wash your troubles away and the kids will have a whale of a time playing in the sand and sea. during the christmas period, places like the caribbean, maui, hawaii, and st. lucia are scorching in december, so pack up your beach wear and head over for a sizzling christmas for a change. take a family tour to india india is like a different planet, and its magic lies within its vibrant culture and nature. from the temples of varanasi to the marble fortresses of delhi, you’ll be confident in learning that there is something for everyone to see in india. touring india with the family will allow you to witness what this vast country has to offer, from the countless temples to the infamous indian slums. book a tour with jules verne and their expert guides will show you all the hidden gems you might miss if you travelled without. having a barbecue i have grown up with my fair share of dad’s barbies and he makes one heck of a barbecue party for our friends and family. and we don’t just limit our barbecues to hot, sunny days. some of our best barbecues have involved cosying up with a blanket and roasting marshmallows in the fire. the optimal time to host a bbq party is in the summer’s heat, but sometimes you just can’t beat watching the beautiful autumn sunset whilst enjoying an intimate glass of red and a juicy steak by the fire! invite the extended family and make it one barbecue holiday to remember. visiting a winter holiday destination christmas is such a magical time of the year. families get together to enjoy the festivities and presents are aplenty. there are tons of events open during winter, and santa’s lapland is one of the most popular destinations for family goers during the christmas period, often getting booked up in as much as six months in advance. it’s hard to imagine a bigger christmas treat for kids than going to meet santa at his own home in lapland, and the beauty of this experience is that you are going to the real finnish lapland, a deep snow winter wonderland above the arctic circle. there are tons of things to do and you can buy packages of three-day or two-night breaks in the first week of december, which include flights, accommodation, and activities. kids get to meet the real father christmas on his snowmobile and older children and adults can enjoy husky dog rides. visit www.santaslapland.com for more information on what you can do over in santa’s lapland, which also hosts a fantastic blog about what santa is doing now in the offseason. take the family on a cruise holiday if you have never been on a cruise before, now is the best time to try it. it is virtually impossible to get bored and there is something to do for every age bracket. from swimming pools to cinemas, enjoy your journey by sea/lake in style. there are tons of activities for children to enjoy as well, and they’ll love having a great time while on the move. they will meet many kids their age that they may even end up being pen pals with for life. cruising can also represent brilliant value for money, as you can incorporate any activity into one trip, i.e. dining, sports activities, movies, basking in the sun (if you’re cruising through the heat) and any other activity you could think of, the cruise holiday probably has some service related to it. cruiseagency.com.au offer lots of cruise holiday packages, which can be tailor-made to your own specifications. plus, they offer cruise deals of the week, so you can get the most bang for your buck. take a look at their website here and start putting together your very first action-packed cruise holiday with the family. take a trip to central london (photo by tomas preston, preston perfect photography) ok, so i’m a born and bred londoner and i don’t visit central london nearly as much as tourists do. but, when hubby and i jumped on the tube one day with our two boys and head over to the heart of the capital, we were amazed at how much we ended up doing by walking around the beautiful city. open all year round, 24 hours a day, this busy city is bustling to the brim with people from all parts of the globe, visiting spectacular sites and world-famous events. any time of the year, you will catch something going on. if you’re from london, a zone 1 – 5 underground travelcard can take you pretty much anywhere around london for the day, but if you’re from a little further out, then there are a huge selection of family-friendly hotels in london where you can catch a breather with the kids. on a clear day, your first port-of-call should be the london eye, which offers magnificent views over the thames and many of the famous london landmarks, like the wembley stadium and the shard. then a short distance away, you can visit the london aquarium or head on over to the london dungeons if you fancy giving the kids a little fright. don’t forget to take a boat trip from the london eye to the maritime greenwich, which takes you through many of london’s most famous sights. the national maritime museum is a fantastic place to visit where kids can learn all about the history of seafaring. there’s so much more to do and google is your friend when planning a visit to london. or, better still, ask a local, and they’ll happily point you to the best places to go with the family. don’t forget that a lot of london undergrounds offer lift access, so you can drag your buggies with you too! (photo by tomas preston, preston perfect photography) so, these are just a few ideas of what you can do with the family, but if you have any memorable family holiday trips of your own, please comment below and leave us your tips! *collaborative featured post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:barbecuebeachcruisecruise agencyfamilyholidayslondonnorth cyprussanta's laplandtravel related posts 7 reasons why you should take the family... how do our eating habits differ by regio... press release – launch of motherhood dia... does your personality affect the way you... call santa directly via bt’s new inlinku... a dad’s top 5 tips on how to survi... top 3 great things i want to do with the... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... insights on parenting an adopted teen 5 reasons why you should holiday in sard... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... how to rv in the winter summer car trips with the kids 4 expert laundry hacks for mums tips from parents on how to raise multip... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... tips for travelling with children the other side of abortion sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... morrisons online delivery service arrive... 5 exciting days in for rainy days with t... netflights puzzle pack – a handy compani... what it feels like to be overdue… have you visited the winter wonderland y... how to support your loved one when they ... welsh lamb burger recipe – mediterranean... how to create the ultimate home cinemati... a-z relaxation techniques during early l... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok