sections log in top news u.s. news world news featured voices odd news entertainment movies music tv sports soccer nfl nba mlb photos news entertainment sports features more... defense featured science health video archive almanac about feedback privacy policy about feedback privacy policy search trending wfh naked plastic-eating microbe relief bill sleep apnea flour supply global coronavirus baghdad attack iran sanctions new york coronavirus abandoned mines president trump signs $2t coronavirus relief bill trump invokes defense production act to force gm to make ventilators retail flour supplies run low as consumers turn to home baking abandoned mines in the west pose safety, environmental hazards upi news quiz: 3d printers, pandemic, olympic games coronavirus pandemic u.s. stocks end week with losses after 3-day winning streak march 27 (upi) -- after a strong three-day winning streak, u.s. stocks closed with losses friday despite passage of a $2.3 trillion coronavirus relief package. 9 hours ago cuomo orders schools to remain closed as n.y. caseload soars past 44,000 5 hours ago fighting erupts at chinese bridge between hubei, jiangxi provinces 4 hours ago u.n. says world losing coronavirus fight; cases top 500,000 13 hours ago british pm boris johnson tests positive for coronavirus 10 hours ago more coronavirus news top stories featured news south korean pm: coronavirus fight still a 'long-term battle' covid-19 tough on lungs, can cause difficult-to-treat pneumonia first launch for space force lifts off from florida u.s. news one dead, 16 injured in new york city subway car fire u.s. mayors say they're running out of supplies to fight coronavirus toyota ready to build face shields for healthcare workers world news iran calls on u.s. to release detained scientist 4 die aboard holland america cruise as it tries to find port israel seeks hotels for returning citizens to be quarantined at passover entertainment news 'resident evil 3': jill valentine encounters nemesis in new trailer exo's suho teases 'let's love' music video kip moore shares 'wild world' single ahead of album release odd news message in a bottle travels from germany to ireland new york doughnut shop sells dr. fauci doughnuts marmot rescued from engine compartment of utah woman's car health news covid-19 linked to cardiac ailments in those with, without cardiovascular disease plasma transfusion shows promise for covid-19 treatment, says china study ai may not be better than experts at reading medical scans science news study: cognitive ability is a whole-brain phenomenon scientists discover plastic-eating microbe nasa's next mars rover to carry 10.9m names, 155 essays to red planet defense news north macedonia joins nato, adopts alliance's covid-19 response tool raytheon nabs $2.1b for work on standard missile-3 block ib rounds navy docks uss theodore roosevelt to test crew for covid-19 sports news ncaa to cut division i school funding by $375 million indianapolis 500 date changed for first time in 75 years mlb, players' union hope to play at least 100 games after new agreement photos scenes from a pandemic: world copes with covid-19 the street near parliament in london is empty. photo by hugo philpott/upi a member of magen david adom wears protective clothing while working in a coronavirus testing drive-through tent in jerusalem on march 27. photo by debbie hill/upi the israeli government has imposed tight restrictions of movement, leaving only essential stores open in an effort to stop the spread of the coronavirus. photo by debbie hill/upi a cyclist rides on an empty street in jerusalem. photo by debbie hill/upi security forces keep their distance to protect themselves from a potential infection as they check residents for the documents allowing them to be on the streets of paris near the eiffel tower on march 26. photo by eco clement/upi people in beijing visit a fashion galleria on march 26. china's capital is slowly returning to normal amid a sharp fall in the number of new coronavirus cases and the return of spring weather. photo by stephen shaver/upi visitors have their temperature checked by security at the galleria. photo by stephen shaver/upi mohamed abu daga (l) and his bride israa wear face masks during a photo shoot at a studio before their wedding ceremony in khan yunis in southern gaza on march 23. photo by ismael mohamad/upi the national mall is empty after washington d.c. mayor muriel bowser stopped vehicle access and closed pedestrian access to the cherry blossoms on march 23. photo by kevin dietsch/upi palestinian volunteers disinfect a street as a preventive measure against the spread of coronavirus in rafah in the southern gaza strip on march 22. photo by ismael mohamad/upi volunteers disinfect the interior of a mosque. photo by ismael mohamad/upi palestinian children play video games in the southern gaza strip on march 22. the united nations has warned that a covid-19 outbreak in gaza could be disastrous, given the high poverty rates and weak health system in the coastal strip under israeli blockade since 2007. photo by ismael mohamad/upi a group of students visit a tourist area as the threat of the deadly coronavirus fades in beijing on march 22, 2020. china has reported no new locally transmitted coronavirus cases for the first time since the pandemic began. photo by stephen shaver/upi marina street in barcelona is scarcely populated on march 21. photo by andreu dalmau/epa-efe a security guard eats at a neighborhood checkpoint as the threat of the coronavirus fades in beijing on march 21. photo by stephen shaver/upi a delivery driver hauls boxes to a store. photo by stephen shaver/upi a trader puts on his vest on an empty floor at the new york stock exchange after the closing bell on wall street in new york city on march 20. the new york stock exchange will close down the floor and will move temporarily to fully electronic trading on march 23 due to the coronavirus pandemic. photo by john angelillo/upi an informational guidebook is held by u.s. vice president mike pence during a coronavirus task force news conference at the white house in washington, d.c. on march 20. photo by al drago/upi palestinian health workers clean the courtyard of a united nations relief and works agency for palestinian refugees school wearing protective gear to help prevent the spread of coronavirus at khan youns refugee camp in southern gaza on march 18. photo by ismael mohamad/upi gaza has not confirmed any infections, but doctors in many cases believe the virus has arrived and fear that a lack of disease surveillance systems -- shortages of tests, basic supplies and properly trained professionals -- is allowing an invisible pandemic to spread. photo by ismael mohamad/upi a thermographic camera checks arriving passengers' body temperature at a quarantine station at narita international airport in chiba prefecture, japan on march 16. japanese government requests that people arriving from china, south korea, hong kong, macau and iran wait for two weeks at designated facilities or their home in japan to prevent the spread of the coronavirus. photo by keizo mori/upi a lone passenger walks through baggage claim. photo by keizo mori/upi a man sits in a bus station in central tel aviv on march 16. photo by abir sultan/epa-efe a traveler takes photos of a departure board showing canceled flights at tokyo international airport on march 15. photo by keizo mori/upi a shopper grabs a few cans of soup in an aisle of near-empty shelves in a san francisco store on march 12. photo by peter dasilva/upi a woman walks by the broadway venue for neil simon's "plaza suite" in new york city on march 12. broadway shows and other large gatherings have been canceled as coronavirus continues to spread in the united states. photo by john angelillo/upi drive-through covid-19 testing is performed by appointment at the kaiser permanente french campus in san francisco on march 12. photo by terry schmitt/upi travelers stand in line at the adolfo-suarez barajas international airport in madrid on march 12, the morning after trump announced the travel ban on flights from europe. photo by emilio naranjo/epa-efe medical personnel wearing protective gear help the family of a patient carry her to a ct scan in the rassolakram hospital in tehran on march 11. photo by morteza nikoubazl/upi medical personnel check a ct scan of the lungs of a patient at the rassolakram hospital in tehran on march 11. photo by morteza nikoubazl/upi passengers from the grand princess cruise ship board a chartered airplane at oakland international airport in oakland, calif., on march 11 after being released from a 21-day quarantine on the ship. photo by peter dasilva/upi shoppers don masks on clement street in san francisco on march 11. photo by terry schmitt/upi u.s. president donald trump delivers a televised prime-time address from the oval office on march 11, announcing that travelers from most european countries would not be allowed to enter the united states for 30 days. pool photo by doug mills/upi palestinian municipality workers wearing protective gear disinfect a park to help prevent the spread of the coronavirus in gaza on march 11. photo by ismael mohamad/upi a cyclist passes the hoover tower on the usually bustling stanford university campus in palo alto, calif., on march 10. stanford is among many campuses around the world closing to protect from the virus. photo by terry schmitt/upi purple ribbons hang outside of the young israel of new rochelle synagogue in new rochelle, n.y. on march 10. a 1-mile containment zone around the city in westchester county was set up in hopes of slowing the spread of the coronavirus. photo by john angelillo/upi a closed sign hangs in the window of a barber shop in new rochelle. photo by john angelillo/upi u.s. rep. cheri bustos, d-ill., uses hand sanitizer during a committee meeting on capitol hill in washington, d.c., on march 10. photo by tasos katopodis/upi guests have their temperature checked before being allowed to enter an international shopping mall in beijing on march 10. photo by stephen shaver/upi chinese president xi jinping visits patients via video calls on march 10 at the huoshenshan hospital in wuhan, where the outbreak began. photo by ju peng/epa-efe/xinhua the cruise ship grand princess is seen 15 miles off the california coast as it waits to enter san francisco bay on march 9. the ship was being held in quarantine with 21 diagnosed cases of covid-19 aboard. photo by terry schmitt/upi the first known case of coronavirus in washington, d.c., was connected to the christ episcopal church in georgetown. photo by tasos katopodis/upi the cdc has been criticized for a slow rollout of test kits in the united states, along with other problems. photo courtesy of cdc this illustration, created at the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention, reveals ultrastructural morphology exhibited by coronaviruses. image courtesy of cdc a notice posted at st.thomas's hospital in london on march 9 proclaims a lack of face masks. photo by andy rain/epa-efe a girl wears a protective face mask outside a shop selling hand sanitizer in beijing on march 8. photo by stephen shaver/upi the galleria vittorio emanuele ii arcades, italy's oldest active shopping mall, stands nearly empty in milan. italian authorities have taken the drastic measure of putting the whole country on lockdown. photo by matteo corner/epa-efe shelves are empty in a grocery store on march 5, after panic buying in beijing. photo by stephen shaver/upi the seoul subway mascot, ddota, promotes the use of hand sanitizer in south korea on march 4. south korea's efforts to contain the virus offer lessons for other countries. photo by thomas maresca/upi a street in seoul's namdaemun market, a popular tourist destination, is nearly empty on march 4. photo by thomas maresca/upi health workers in biohazard suits treat patients at a drive-through coronavirus testing center at seoul metropolitan eunpyeong hospital on march 4. photo by thomas maresca/upi white house coronavirus response coordinator dr. debbie birx speaks during a press briefing as pence listens at the white house on march 4. pence is leading the federal response to the outbreak. photo by mike theiler/upi a worker sprays disinfectant inside a vietnam airlines airplane at noi bai international airport in hanoi on march 3. photo by luong thai linh/epa-efe researchers with the emerging infectious disease branch at the walter reed army institute of research, conduct studies in order to find a solution for the coronavirus, on march 3. photo by usamrdc/upi pedestrians walk near the new york stock exchange on wall street in new york city on march 3. photo by john angelillo/upi office workers wearing face masks are seen at the shinjuku station in tokyo on march 2. some companies are granting flexible-time work schedules or work from home to curb the spread of new coronavirus infections. photo by keizo mori/upi tokyo disneyland, closed to curb the spread of the virus, in urayasu, chiba-prefecture, japan, was empty of tourists on february 29. photo by keizo mori/upi trump takes questions on the coronavirus outbreak at the white house in washington, d.c., on february 26. photo by pat benic/upi. a hospital worker in a biohazard suit checks his phone at daegu medical center in daegu, south korea on february 21. most of south korea's cases were traced to a secretive religious organization, where a "super spreader" with the virus came in contact with hundreds. photo by thomas maresca/upi transit workers use a thermal sensor to check a passenger's body temperature at a subway station in daegu, south korea on february 21. photo by thomas maresca/upi infectious disease expert galia rahavm shows an isolation room as israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu tours the chaim sheba medical center in ramat gan, israel, on february 19, preparing to cope with a potential outbreak. photo by photo by heidi levine/upi the quarantined cruise ship diamond princess is docked at the daikoku pier in yokohama, kanagawa-prefecture, japan on february 19. hundreds aboard the ship were infected. photo by keizo mori/upi public service announcements in the subway advise people to wear protective face masks in beijing on february 6. photo by stephen shaver/upi a subway carriage is nearly empty during a normally busy rush hour in beijing on february 6. photo by stephen shaver/upi one of the beijing's major temple fairs is closed due to the coronavirus outbreak on january 25. all major chinese new year events were canceled to help stop the spread of the virus. photo by stephen shaver/upi pedestrians wear protective respiratory masks in downtown beijing on january 21. photo by stephen shaver/upi 0 of 0 highlights of u.s. space force's first launch moments from rihanna's career u.s. copes with covid-19 pandemic view all photo collections latest headlines health news // 3 hours ago cdc launches online covid-19 symptom checker the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention has posted a new coronavirus self-checker on its website that might ease your mind and steer you toward any medical help you might need. health news // 3 hours ago increased steps linked to lower blood pressure, study suggests if you have high blood pressure, you can take steps to lower it by walking more every day, new research suggests. health news // 4 hours ago too little sleep increases kids' risk for mental health conditions kids who don't get enough sleep may be at risk for adhd, anxiety, depression and other mental health problems, researchers report. u.s. news // 6 hours ago epa relaxes enforcement, dhs delays real id due to coronavirus march 27 (upi) -- two u.s. government agencies, the dhs and epa, have announced major policy suspensions due to the spread of the coronavirus disease. health news // 6 hours ago flu, covid-19 pose dual threat to health as winter season closes, cdc says march 27 (upi) -- 7.4 percent of all deaths reported in the united states during the week ending march 21 were attributed to pneumonia and influenza, an amount that is above the cdc's threshold for an epidemic. world news // 6 hours ago russia, china petition for easing of sanctions on north korea march 27 (upi) -- eight countries including china, north korea and russia are demanding the easing of sanctions in response to the global coronavirus pandemic, according to a russian press report. world news // 6 hours ago maduro, venezuelan officials reject u.s. drug trafficking charges march 27 (upi) -- venezuelan president nicolas maduro and the government in caracas have dismissed drug trafficking charges from the united states, arguing that they have actually been aggressive in fighting the narcotics trade. u.s. news // 6 hours ago survey: consumer sentiment in u.s. falls to 3-year low march 27 (upi) -- u.s. consumer sentiment has fallen to its lowest level in more than three years, mainly due to the coronavirus outbreak, new data showed friday. health news // 7 hours ago study: overdose risk doubles for young people with family on opioids march 27 (upi) -- adolescents and young adults with family members on prescription opioids are more than twice as likely as others to overdose on the pain medications themselves, a new study has found. world news // 8 hours ago south korea leader attributes cheonan sinking to the north march 27 (upi) -- south korean president moon jae-in publicly acknowledged friday the sinking of the warship cheonan was carried out by north korean forces. load more most popular president trump signs $2t coronavirus relief bill top news // 11 hours ago retail flour supplies run low as consumers turn to home baking top news // 16 hours ago fighting erupts at chinese bridge between hubei, jiangxi provinces top news // 4 hours ago scientists discover plastic-eating microbe science news // 6 hours ago abandoned mines in the west pose safety, environmental hazards top news // 16 hours ago follow us sign up for our daily newsletter subscribe privacy policy on this day on march 27, in 1998, the u.s. food and drug administration approved viagra for use as a treatment for male impotence. upi archives upi archives: tourist busted for contraband viagra upi archives: addyi, first female libido drug, hits shelves view all archives agriculture retail meat sales up 77 percent amid coronavirus pandemic evansville, ind., march 26 (upi) -- consumer demand for meat is surging across the united states this month as the coronavirus pandemic is forcing families to stay home. voices privacy vs. pandemic: cellphone tracking could help contain coronavirus back to article / back to top sections top newsworld newsu.s. newsentertainment newssports news news photosodd newsdefense newsenergy news science newshealth newsupi archives upi espanol united press international about upi contact feedback advertisements submit news tips facebook twitter linkedin copyright © 2020 united press international, inc. all rights reserved. terms of use privacy policy ca: do not sell my info