skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 21 free & paid drag & drop page builder wordpress plugins 2020 top 21 free & paid drag & drop page builder wordpress plugins 2020 march 26, 2020 alex ivanovs plugins 17 comments why do people go for wordpress? why is it the most popular blogging platform there is? certainly, every blogger will have a different answer to these questions, but what will remain is a simple foundation, the fact that wordpress makes blogging possible in such a relaxed way, that it doesn’t interfere with the actual process of publishing content, and doing any necessary optimizations or changes in the background of the blog. that may include changing themes, installing new plugins, changing settings, or making custom adjustments to files and content, wordpress has figured out the balance between the technical and the traditional. looking at the numbers, there are currently 3,182 free themes available on the public theme repository at wordpress official page, and 12,147 premium themes available at themeforest’s database, that’s a total of 8,321 themes available just within the two most known theme databases for wordpress bloggers, and we aren’t including the other ten thousand themes that come from separate community websites, and wordpress oriented theme businesses that only advertise their themes on the business website itself. it’s ironic that it has never been easier to find a great wordpress theme; given the volume of themes that we have our hands on right now. what can we do about this? a solution is possible, and we are here to depict it. page builders page builders are visual design tools that enable wordpress bloggers to use drag and drop tools to create unique designs that won’t be matched by free or premium themes. the market for page builders is growing quickly, as more bloggers are keen to run personalized versions of their designs, rather than using external themes. our post today will feature more than 25+ unique wordpress page builders that you can use to create both sophisticated web designs, but also thoroughly simple, elegant and business-oriented. elementor elementor is a page builder plugin for wordpress. with free downloadable and an option to go pro with payment. you will get an instrument meant for speed and to avoid coding complications. this theme has real-time customizer that set to overcome dragging and dropping system. the layout is completely customizable and has pixel perfect quality of the image. custom css sections are available for setting! furthermore, elementor is highly responsive and adaptable to browsers or any kind of screen. with this in mind, image display is important. color palettes are unlimited to make unbelievable mixes! moreover, elementor lets you set amazing typography and iconography for a nice different appeal. you will count on +400 icons and +800 fonts. an open-source and seo optimized for a great performance. its code doesn’t fall behind, as it is made with php7 and the latest coding standards. video and audio posting or connection to youtube and soundcloud is available too. lastly, elementor is ready for translation in all ways possible. get support from wpml and polylang aside from internal files. contact forms and log-in account systems are also an option! have a look! make your dream site or update it to make your wishes a reality with this surreal plugin! download elementor! download page builder by siteorigin the page builder from siteorigin has established itself as the leading wordpress plugins for all needs page building. the real value in this page builder is that it supports other themes, rather than give you a boilerplate and make you do all the editing and building yourself. furthermore, page builder extends on top of whatever theme you are using, giving you access to real-time editing, more widgets to play with, and re-positioning options to create new content layouts, and all of it is fully responsive for mobile devices. it’s a very frequently updated open-source project, with many community members behind it, don’t fear running into problems, as there will always be someone to help you out. download beaver builder – wordpress page builder wordpress builders have grown in huge popularity, with a page builder, anyone can quickly become a web designer and try building their own web design, without any prior experience. beaver builder, like a number of other plugins in our post, offers a front-end drag & drop page building solution that works through widgets, modules, and layout options to help bloggers create exciting and stunning designs that feel, and actually are unique. furthermore, we are instantly attracted to beaver builder for two things: first, it allows bloggers to create layouts that will be fully mobile-optimized. moreover, the second thing is that the plugin works with your newly built layouts and optimizes their performance by loading only necessary and required files, whereas other such plugins might depend too much on external and internal styling files that could add extra load-time to your web pages. more than fifty thousand bloggers are enjoy beaver already, will you join them? download page builder sandwich as we move deeper into our roundup, we begin to explore page builder alternatives that bring to the light their own unique features, and one such feature from page builder sandwich is that it enables front-end content editing for wordpress blog posts, perhaps a feature that we will eventually see in the wordpress core as native. we can rely on page builder sandwich to provide us with this modern function that will help us better optimize our content on the go. furthermore, aside the front-end content editing tools, page builder sandwich is another wonderful drag&drop page building solution that offers a dynamic element editing widget within the front-end environment. moreover, wordpress bloggers can click on any page element and make necessary changes to it, and if changes aren’t what you’re looking for, then begin to add new elements and and columns to expand on your existing design. lastly, it will work with majority of wordpress themes, but in case it doesn’t work with yours — reach out to the devs and ask them for help, they will be more than happy to give you a hand. download pootle page builder pootle has established a name for itself within the ecommerce, photography, and creative bloggers field. a theme that uses a back-end page building system that lets you create unique page designs through the native wordpress content editor that we all love and adore. furthermore, create custom layout concepts, add new rows and columns, insert custom media, manage the styling appearances of each block/row/column manually. moreover, pootle takes care of the job when building individual uniquely designed web pages is the task at hand. lastly, the output code of each design has been closely monitored and optimized so that you get the most performance out of all your web designs. download king composer: high-performance wordpress page builder plugin mini composer has chosen the path of righteousness, cutting off leading-class libraries such as ajax and jquery. everything within mini composer is built on native html, css, and js code. a feat that many developers strive to achieve, yet so few manage to execute it. thanks to eliminating the need for third-party libraries, the speed performance of mini composer is truly outstanding. this plugin empowers you to create page effortless with carefully selected features such as drag-n-drop operation, element editing with one click, instant saving without reloading the browser, publishing and unpublished possibility to a name but a few. lastly, king composer assures that you will be surprise with a bunch of distinctive features which you haven’t seen anywhere else. download live composer page builder we have been impressed with live composer page builder, not only because it is being offered to the community totally at no cost, but because it carries within its core some of the best live page building features we have seen, not many premium page builders can come close to what live composer has to offer. the technique of building pages here is that live composer relies on a blank wordpress theme where you use the live composer live editing widget to create new module rows, and new element boxes that can be populated with your content in the form of design choices, and what is required for your business. the best example for this is the interactive tutorial from live composer which you can find on the wordpress download page, but also the actual live composer homepage, where the design has been crafted using the very plugin that’s being offered, and as of right now, the design of the homepage feels sleek, elegant and incredibly clean; perhaps something that many wordpress themes lack. download free landing pages builder by wishpond are you in the online marketing business? perhaps you’re selling a number of products and need to give each of them a unique approach? free landing pages builder by wishpond could be your solution towards making unique web designs for each of your products landing pages. because the plugin is tightly incorporated with wishpond, the limitation of the free plan is that you only get 200/monthly form submission to your template, which could be a bit of trouble for new bloggers who don’t have the funds to make an investment, but then again — 200 form submissions should be enough for you start making some money anyway. what we enjoy about the feature list of this plugin is a selection of more than 50 unique templates upon which you can build, integration with the most popular marketing services online; saving you time from having to integrate them manually, real-time analytics, social media options, and much more; much, much more. download onepager – one page builder onepager wordpress plugin is perhaps the most modern of them all on this list, featuring popular framework integrations such as react.js, bootstrap, less, and gulp package manager to increased productivity workflow. the builder has been built in a way that ux (user experience) is a top priority above anything else. moreover, the builder works through blocks, allowing you to quickly create custom layout blocks and populate them with a choice of user interface (ui) elements. although using such modern features, it’s still easy enough to navigate that even your parents could build a beautiful page design with it. download motopress content editor lite motopress is the ultimate front-end content editing and content building platform for you! with more than 30+ content elements to choose from, motopress enables for wordpress users to create beautiful and unique designs for their pages within minutes of starting to use the plugin. the interface is so easy to use that learning it is as simple as learning the content editor for wordpress, and we all know how basic it can be! all your designs built with motopress will integrate with mobile devices and cross browsers without breaking any sweat! there’s a small selection of pre-built layouts to choose from. download unyson unyson page building framework is home to tens of thousands of wordpress bloggers, and it continues to grow in popularity as the framework expands on new features and capabilities in design. why unyson attracts so many users? well, it’s more than likely because of its extensive list of features, such as — in-built sliders to add to your content pages, huge menus, custom and dynamic sidebars for each of your design, portfolio template to rapidly showcase your work, search engine optimized pages, option to enable customer feedback, and so much more. don’t just talk being modern, be modern! download nimble page builder when you are building your first or your sixth website, avoid starting from scratch. with wordpress and nimble page builder plugin, you can effortlessly design dream layouts with the simple method of dragging and dropping. regardless of your page or your website, you can drag and drop images, texts, icons, maps, parallax backgrounds and contact forms to name a few. of course, there are multiple options you can take to your advantage to craft the necessary web space. as for the features, nimble page builder works with all wordpress contexts, includes several content modules and easily embeds different content and shortcodes. even if you do not know about web development, you can still do amazingly well with nimble page builder. no doubt, the outcome will be a stunning and professional web design that will entice everyone. download wp page builder wp page builder is a wordpress plugin that makes developing websites a child’s play. no matter at what level of expertise you are, you can bring into being remarkable pages of any niche and industry. starting on the web is way simpler than it was just years ago. with wp page builder, you have your entire web space under full control, having an option to hammer out the must-have web design sooner rather than later. without the need to invest loads of time and effort into it, wp page builder allows everyone to have their creative freedom when setting up a novel website. features include but are not limited to drag and drop technology, parallax effect, built-in blocks, responsiveness and quick one-click duplication. with wp page builder, you will also construct search engine friendly websites that will bring in even more traffic. download oxygen in this modern era that we live in, there is no real need to be tech-savvy to have a chance and craft yourself, heck, even a client a website. thanks to a page builder, like oxygen, you can get the job done without coding and design knowledge. how awesome and exciting does that sound? but that is something you are already aware of. with all the different options that we have here for you, oxygen is another superb alternative that will do the trick both for beginners and professionals. by the way, you can even build online stores powered by woocommerce with oxygen. oxygen comes with just about anything and everything that you can think of. in the kit, you will find nothing missing, from the completely intuitive building process to an array of features and functions that you can incorporate into your website, oxygen has it all at your disposal. of course, the final design will be 100% responsive, cross-browser compatible and in tune with retina screens. lastly, oxygen comes with three different packages (starting at $99 – one-time payment) and a whopping 60-day money-back guarantee. download brizy brizy is a page builder wordpress plugin with spectacular possibilities to forge all sorts of different websites. in this day and age, all you need is a set of handy tools and you can turn yourself into a programmer and designer instantaneously. clicking, dragging and dropping is all the skills that you need to be able to create wonderful things with brizy. the tool also makes sure the experience is fun and entertaining, without getting yourself submerged in many features and functions. in the bundle, you will discover over 150 predefined blocks which you can mix and match however you fancy. cloud auto-save, mobile-friendliness, global styling, image optimization and quick content improvements, brizy is here to serve you right. before you fully dive in, first check quick video introduction and get the full gist of it. you will soon realize how effortless developing pages is with brizy. download landing page builder while landing page builder is – hence the name – exclusive to hammering out landing pages, it also works with building other types of pages and web designs. first and foremost, using landing page builder is easy and comfortable. you do not really need to have any prior experience to be able to create with landing page builder. anyone can do it even if you happen to be a complete newbie. landing page builder unlocks access to its visual drag and drop builder where you see all the changes you make real-time. that said, completing a project with landing page builder is also super quick, not needing to jump from editing to preview page and back again. main treats of landing page builder are predefined templates, opt-in form, loads of widgets and woocommerce compatibility. download azexo – free wordpress page builder azexo html is a premium quality page builder adaptable to any task. it is used to create site from nothing and even provides extra pre-built choices to those on theme. a html that contains many inner pages with templates and its own shortcodes. get customized widgets and tons of pre-built sections added on page. actually, azexo html uses css, js and php files and codes to make the adaptation to the base theme painless. play with footer, header and shortcodes own builders. these are extras of the theme used as base. get lifetime subscriptions for new stuff and many plug-ins compatibility. furthermore, azexo html provides a space for logos and specialized menus too. you will find inner pages compatibility with third party plugins and themes’ shortcodes. this is a page builder meant for professional experienced users who want the best. make forms with ajax and cfdb plug-in integration. moreover, azexo html is new in its kind, with all features from recycled ideas of the agency past experience. it uses a front-end css style editor with yellow pencil as addition. it is fast and responsive and with an increased speed. lastly, make anything possible with its live customizer! enjoy new wonderful features every day. get azexo html page builder! download premium page builder plugins for wordpress what a selection of choices for the best wordpress page builders! we have been mesmerized by this list, and yet — there is so much more to come! our selection of free page builders have ended, but we aren’t going to stop there, as per our research, it is occurring to us that the premium wordpress market has also got something to offer, a couple of really amazing and truly premium wordpress page builders, some of which are known more than any of the free plugins we enlisted. yes, page builders are growing in demand, and we can only cater to this demand by talking about the best of the best page builders out there, please join us in celebrating such amazing plugins by leaving your own personal reviews of your experiences with any of the following, or the above talked about plugins. wpbakery page builder for wordpress wpbakery, the company behind wpbakery page builder, has sold more than 390,000 units of items on the codecanyon marketplace. they are the makers who are behind one of the most highly sought after wordpress plugins in modern publishing. this positions wpbakery as one of the most prestigious sellers. purchased over 390,000 times, and hundreds more are purchasing a license every day. this plugin has managed to completely change the way bloggers do front-end and back-end content publishing, page building, and overall design optimization. furthermore, this plugin is packed with ways to customize and edit pages, it works in both back-end and front-end, allowing you to edit content directly from the page, or from your content editor in wordpress. with an in-built template system, you can create certain templates and styles and save them for later use in other page designs that you are creating. don’t worry about search engine compatibility, wpbakery page builder works in hand with the most popular seo plugin for wordpress; yoast. lastly, it’s also ecommerce friendly, and you will never need to worry about updates, as it includes all of them in the package free of charge. download rapid composer – wordpress page builder rapid composer doesn’t have the name rapid in its name just because, this is a back-end visual page builder that focuses on performance aspects of building pages, ensuring that your pages are functioning at their optimal speed at all times, a feature that will continue to become much more important in the future, as search engines, and users themselves evolve to web experiences that are truly real-time. the editing and performance speed is achieved through using the javascript library react.js! save your templates and blocks, which you can re-use in other designs, or in other parts of the page designs. it also works great in tandem with wpbakery page builder. just use rapid composer as the visual builder. download elastik with tools like elastik, you can become a pro at editing, customizing and developing modern web designs. do you not believe me? well, feel free to watch any of the video tutorials and you will immediately understand what i am trying to say. in short, anyone out there has the ability to form the specific website that they want to own. whether it has a super minimalistic or a more detailed approach, you can make it happen all and then some with elastik. elastik works with any theme that you can find on the market at the time of writing this. you can employ the ready-to-use framework or even start from scratch. benefit from a whopping collection of two hundred pre-built sections, over twenty demos and loads more amenities. the websites and layouts, you will realize with elastik, will also be flexible, responsive, in tune with web browsers and retina-friendly. download mynx if you are on the hunt for the right page builder wordpress plugin, you should not miss mynx. the tool is super versatile and highly adaptive, making sure it works flawlessly with all your projects and purposes. and to make the magic happen, you do it all with a click on a mouse button. drag and drop objects and elements according to your taste, add your signature style and you are ready to roll. more than forty types of elements, over one hundred different sections and elements, full control over colors, fonts and other details, mynx delivers all the must-haves and a whole bunch more. add animations, parallax backgrounds, shape dividers and layered overlays, mynx gives you total freedom when creating the niftiest websites out there. although you might have never put a website together before, you will appear like a champ once you finish designing and developing with the powerful mynx. download in conclusion wordpress theme market has come a far way since the release of wordpress, and we don’t see it stopping soon. however, what we do see is that more and more bloggers are going to be keen on using third-party plugins. they need it to create their own personalized wordpress designs that won’t be matched by anyone else. every blogger wants a uniquely built site for themselves. it’s a shame to build a blog that begins to attract readers. after that, you will find out that your nearest competitor is using the same theme as you are. then, the list of benefits and disadvantages continues to grow. we are proud of the dedicated wordpress developers who have spent so much time creating such special plugins. they further improve them and listen to what the community has to say. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. drag & dropfree pluginspage builder share this share tweet pin it share alex ivanovs alex is a freelance writer with more than 10 years of experience in design, development, and small business. his work has been featured in publications like entrepreneur, huffington post, thenextweb, and others. you can find his personal writing at the divine indigo. related posts top 17 free wordpress tab plugins 2020 you must be familiar with tabs. in a paper file, they refer to those colored… top 24 jquery plugins for social media sharing 2019 if you're not running a wordpress blog, then social sharing plugins might be out of… the best wordpress plugins to optimize images 2020 images are an integral part of most websites. no doubt, a striking image helps to… 29 most popular premium and free social sharing plugins for wordpress 2020 social sharing is now an integral part of our internet experience. furthermore, it's constantly on… top 26 jquery form plugins and effects 2019 where would the web be today without forms? we might as well ask where the… how to run an a/b test on your wordpress blog (plugins and tools) running an a/b test on your website can have incremental effects on your conversion rates,… this post has 17 comments tony says: at hi alex, thanks for mentioning woorockets page builder :). we’re working on some ideas for the version 2.0. reply roy says: at would you please make a list of premium page builders regards colorlib reader reply aigars says: at roy, please find premium page builders are the end of the list. we have listed all most popular options there. however, visual composer currently has around 80% market share, so other page builders are just looking up to what visual composer team can offer. reply graffig says: at alex, many thanks for the round of wordpress drag and drop page builders. i’ve used all the above at some point over the last 2-3 years, however lately, i’ve been using the pro license version of king composer for a few weeks now. as a designer coming from a print background i’m blown away by the ease of use and flexibility this plugin allows me. i received this preview via twitter of the next update to the plugin and cannot wait to try this! thanks again reply luis says: at i find aio wp builder is quite promising (https://wordpress.org/plugins/all-in-one-wp-builder/) reply emily williams says: at hi aigars, thank you for including the lite version of motopress page builder, as not all wordpress users are aware about it. reply vijay says: at hi, vc if turned off leaves behind shortcodes which makes the site unreadable. could you please enlighten which plugins leave nearly no shortcake and content stays visible even if the builder is off. beaver i trust is one what is the case with king composer and other plugins? vijay reply emily williams says: at hi vijay, the latest version of motopress visual builder doesn’t leave shortcodes after plugin deactivation. hope this information will be useful for you 🙂 reply ben pines says: at you should list our elementor page builder here. it is a leader in this category. reply jeff lynn says: at which one is the one you featured in this articles cover photo? that looks cool. https://colorlib.com/wp/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/wordpress-page-builders.jpg reply aigars says: at jeff, it is a screenshot from visual composer by wpbakery which unfortunately is not a free plugin. you can find more information about it here. reply oussama touzni says: at thanks for this article but i think it is essential to mention instabuilder 2.0 , one of the easiest to use and most complete available drag and drop tools reply umar bajwa says: at hey, really good work collecting the information about all these page builder plugins. but the list is not being updated and there are few more page builder plugins out. one them i tried is pluginops page builder it is really great to create landing pages and i think you should add it in your list. download link : https://wordpress.org/plugins/page-builder-add reply umar bajwa says: at you should list our free pluginops page builder here : wordpress.org/plugins/page-builder-add/ it is getting tons of feedback and growing really fast. reply parsa says: at i found a new plugin, site editor plugin is wordpress theme builder and page builder and i can create my client’s website faster than before. it’s fantastic, i can build a whole website(theme and pages) visually. reply david morgan says: at hey guys, great list of builders. i’d also like to throw out a mention of our free organic customizer widgets plugin in the wordpress repo as well, https://wordpress.org/plugins/organic-customizer-widgets/ the plugin utilizes the native wordpress customizer and custom widgets to create pages with dynamic content sections. so, there’s no added learning curve, changes are viewed in real-time, there are no shortcodes, and there is no vendor lock-in. it’s fast, easy, and looks great. plus, you can use the plugin with any theme. reply wilhelm says: at hi, wpbakery page builder is definitely one of my favourite drag & drop page builders. i really enjoyed reading the article, thank you for sharing! reply leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: 17 best search plugins for wordpress to make the most out of search 2020 next post: top 28 free wpbakery page builder (visual composer) addons & extensions for wordpress 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×