home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays london travel prevnext top 3 great things i want to do with the family this year leyla preston wed 11th jan 2017 0shares share tweet pin holidays with the family are always fun-packed and full of adventure. either the three boys (including hubby) and i jet off to the beautiful mediterranean island of north cyprus for the sun, sea and sand-style summer holiday with my side of the family, or we ski it up at the breath-taking and truly stunning alps of switzerland with hubby’s side of the family. and, i hope these awesome memories just keep on coming. apart from experiencing a fantastic family fun package overnight stay at the arch london hotel just last weekend (post will be up soon), there are some experiences i would absolutely love to do with the family. here are my top 3: take my family on a luxurious, once-in-a-lifetime, holiday to experience stuff that only dreams are made of (image from luxury retreats’ website) i am not talking about north cyprus, switzerland or even anywhere in europe (although they are very beautiful places to visit on holiday). i mean, heading over to the caribbean and experiencing the ultimate paradigm of crystal clear waters and life as it should be. and, if money was not an issue, i would book an all-inclusive package to the best places to stay in turks and caicos villas, where we could enjoy a large villa with a beachfront, pool, mini bar for the adults, and top class amenities that come with a 24-hour concierge. we wouldn’t have to leave the villa for a few days, we would just chill and lap up the beauty of the caribbean climes. book out a luxury family package at a hotel – with spa included (image is taken from luxuryfamilyhotels.co.uk) last weekend we stayed overnight at the arch london hotel, where kids were treated like vip, as part of the new family fun package the hotel is now offering for families. we had a brilliant time (watch out for a post on our experience coming very soon), but there was just one small activity missing – the spa! the kids got to enjoy all the amenities the hotel had to offer and i did manage to hit the gym early on in the morning. but, it would have been nice to relax afterwards at a sauna/steam room and sink into a massage while the kids are living it up at a soft play area or crèche nearby. this package is next on the agenda! an action-packed family adventure weekend with the whole family image is taken from pgl.co.uk contrast lounging about at a hotel and spa and bring on the none stop high quality, high energy activity weekend that gets us out and about and getting the most of each day with the family. i’d aim to block off a 2 or 3-night weekend and pack in at least 4 different sport/nature activities with the whole family before heading off home with the feeling of accomplishment and, possibly, exhaustion. the memories we could gain from sharing these unique activities together as a family, like raft building, fencing and quad biking would be magical, to say the least! what are your top activities to do with the family? please share in the comments below. *collaborative featured post* *featured image from luxury retreats’ website leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:family funholidayluxurytravel related posts does your personality affect the way you... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... summer car trips with the kids so you think you know the uk? share it a... keeping the kids entertained during trav... fun things to do with the kids over wint... why we decided to use an airport car par... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... 5 ideas to keep the kids entertained in ... ghostly cork tips for travelling with children sharm el-sheikh – a top class thomson ho... the best holiday destinations for new pa... 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... 9 reasons why you should visit the antar... 7 reasons why you should take the family... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... how to rv in the winter ways you can save money on flight ticket... top seasonal family friendly holidays wh... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... top five family holiday destinations to ... 10 reasons why you should rent an rv thi... avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... ten half-term activities you can do on a... 6 reasons why you should take your baby ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok