home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging use social media by bailey belmont in today’s world of digital connection, social media has the power to boost writers’ success. social media platforms allow a writer’s work to be immediately shared, enhancing a writer’s ability to reach far-flung audiences. why is this important? there are two main reasons: the more people who read your work, the better exposure you gain. in this way, you can increase the potential to develop a larger, loyal following. a broader exposure net allows a writer to reach potential clients through second, third, or tenth-degree connections. you know that old seven degrees of kevin bacon game, right? well, the right social media tool can put your work in front of both potential fans as well as potential clients. it’s a win-win situation. expanding new worlds according to a recent pew research study, 52% of online adults use two or more social media sites regularly, and researchers expect this number to increase. while the ever popular social media platforms such as facebook, twitter, and instagram work for writers to promote their work, there are other, more beneficial social media outlets for writers that offer higher returns. a writer’s work doesn’t end at the completion of the article, blog, or story. as all writers know, promotion is the name of the game. a successful writer not only creates an engaging, viral piece but subsequently works to promote it. good promotion is worth its weight in gold. sean gardner, recently ranked by forbes as the top social media influencer in the world, summed it up best: “social media is not just an activity; it is an investment of valuable time and resources.” sean gardner creating a social media toolkit before beginning to market yourself on any social media platform, it’s imperative to organize three key things: 1. create a personal website in today’s interconnected world, people want to know everything about the people they follow. building a personal website, complete with a peek into your own life as well as your professional trade as a writer creates you as human. market yourself to your strengths: a parent, a coach, a gardener, a musician…whatever niches you fit into, use them to form connections with fans and potential clients. additionally, a personal website is crucial to link to in both print and online media; when you’ve piqued people’s interest in you, they need a destination to find your work. 2. create a compelling brand blurb take the time to craft a blurb about yourself; this can be used on guest blog sites or as a tagline for articles posted online. it should appear as a tagline and encapsulate you as well as your talents with some easily digestible and memorable few sentences. 3. choose an interesting logo create a logo for your brand. as an author, your name becomes your brand; therefore, you should create a signature logo to accompany work when appropriate. check out glennon melton doyle’s signature logo at the end of each blog posted online here; doyle’s built an enormous following of “love warriors” over the past decade, and her logo is recognizable around the globe. once you’ve assembled a social media toolkit, it’s time to hit the social media sites that will give you a return on your investment. let’s take a look at a few of the best social media platforms for writers: which social media should writers use? facebook facebook provides amazing tools for positive interaction with your followers. use specific features such as polls to engage your base. link to timely and interesting content to further your appeal as a knowledgeable asset among the millions of other users. while you should promote on facebook, it’s more important to use this platform as a tool for increasing your target base. twitter use twitter to add a bit of “oomph” to your written pieces. many professional writers follow the 80/20 rule when it comes to this social media platform: spend 80% of the time building a following by linking and retweeting relevant posts, and 20% of the promoting your own work. use twitter to extend your network and keep abreast of current trends. muck rack this is a phenomenal social media platform for pr professionals and writers. this platform exists as a one-stop shop for writers looking to increase their brand and visibility. journalists and bloggers can create portfolios to share work and build a network of clients. muck rack assists pr professionals in connecting with writers who have the skills to produce the pieces required. also, this platform provides pr professionals with immediate email notifications when writers link to targeted information. in essence, muck rack takes the vastness of the internet and channels it effectively to connect writers with people who need things written. goodreads goodreads has evolved with the times; this platform interacts with others such as facebook and allows friends and those with friend connections to see what each other recommends and is reading. use this platform to not only promote your own work but also the work of fellow writers. taking the time to shout out to fellow masters of the pen will likely see them return the favor. the more reviews your work receives, the more likely it is to pop up in someone’s feed as a recommendation. hootsuite a must for those managing several social media accounts; hootsuite reduces your workload and enables you to streamline the effort and accountability it takes to engage on diverse social media platforms. it allows users to review social media statistics, tracks user comments, and ultimately works to manage 100s of networks. hootsuite can provide immediate statistics to see what posts gain traction and which don’t, enabling writers to laser-focus on the content that gets noticed and builds a loyal following. here’s the thing about using social media platforms: you need to use them. you need to be present and engage your fans, your followers. you must provide tidbits of value often—and these tidbits should possess a viral quality that makes your fans share them far and wide to recruit new fans who love your bestseller. 71% of adult internet users interact with facebook, and this number continues to rise. while facebook still holds the lion’s share of social media platform usage, other platforms possess percentages worthy of attention: linkedin captures 28% of adult internet users, while pinterest and twitter come in at 28% and 23% respectively. it’s worth the time to develop a profile and create a community supporting your work on these platforms. writers can make powerful connections through a variety of social media platforms. however, it’s important to know your audience and reach out through the best platforms. what platforms would you recommend to fellow writers? tweet152 pin1 share64 217 shares related posts 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base by victor blasco 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers by joan selby are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you by marianne manthey about the author bailey belmont ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >