home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 create a book tips for writers by kristen ford “don’t judge a book by its cover”- you must have heard it a zillion times yet you feel trapped by the appeal each book carries. no matter how much digging you want to do but deep in your mind, that compelling book cover has created a big place, which is now persuading you to give it a read. the trend of reading e-books instead of printed one seems to be dropping for a couple of years. as per the neilson’s survey, the ebook sales in uk dropped by 4% marking the second consecutive year to highlight the decline. moreover, “readers take a pleasure in a physical book that does not translate well on to digital.”- stated by the publishers association as a reason to prefer printed books. printed books create a sort of emotional bond with the readers. many book lovers even save their best books for years and consider them to be a part of their little world. with the decline of ebook sales, the graphic design industry seeks out for more opportunities to mesmerize the readers. a new flair in designing fascinating book covers has hit the market. now even the authors are brainstorming to create covers that can instantly capture the attention and bring more potential readers closer to the book. an average brain processes an image almost 60,000 times faster than static words, due to which there is an ample chance for you to enthrall your readers by creating enticing book covers. so, here is a list of best book cover design trends of 2019 for you to follow and outperform your competitors. typographic book cover the foremost thing that plays the most significant role in bringing target readers closer to the book is its typography. everybody first reads out the title of the book. now the real challenge is to use the typography so appealingly that it impresses the readers right away. in the trend list of 2019, typography enjoys the leading position; however, there is a little more improvisation in this trend. as this year, you will find more bold typography in book covers along with some creative messy touches. messy tpography messy typography has more of a psychological impact. it strikes the brain and creates an urge to ponder on the text. the title with messy typography is more impressive than the usual one. it challenges a mind and captures attention. if you blend the trend of using bold typography with this one and sprinkle some creativity, your book cover will surely generate tons of revenues. hand-drawn letters to add more excitement in your book cover, you can go for digital illustration and throw a hand-drawn touch. one of the most followed trends seen is the hand-drawn book cover style. from text to figures and patterns, everything is created in a way that they give a natural look. this is mostly preferred either in making kid’s books cover or for cover with the motivational content. with the increasing preference for incorporating illustrations in graphic designing, the book covers are surely going to be designed more by following this trend. the centered alignment along with following the bold typography tend here is one more thing you can do- follow the center alignment. by keeping the title and picture of your book in the center, along with choosing the most appropriate font type, you create a more professional outlook. it depicts a unique impact and captures the readers emotionally. covers having the center alignment are usually captivating. minimalist book covers simplicity and minimalism, the two most engaging flairs that never leaves the design industry, enjoy a prominent place in the trend list as well. a minimalist book cover looks decent and sophisticated. throwing a professional image, such book covers look genuine and please the audience more efficiently. books that are rich with information usually have minimalist book covers. the use of subtle colors and soft pastels highlight intelligence wrapped in simplicity. moreover, there are two aspects of a minimalist book cover. one is to keep the cover in a single color tone. even the text is in the color that is light and interesting, complementing the entire outlook. however, in the other type of designing white spaces are involved. the experts of designhill leave a lot of white spaces on the cover bringing the complete focus on a specific element. pictures with text this is a unique trend, which completes the meaning of a book. aligning text on images helps designers to put a glimpse of the story on the cover. you get to see the character and connect with him even before reading out a single word. the book cover speaks volume about the genre of the book and how powerful its story will be. usually such book covers raise the expectations of readers. the golden touch of retro some books are magical not only by the story they holds but by the cover they have. a retro cover has that essence that ignites a book. it can spread an engaging touch in the graphics. the indulging illustration, deep colors, and design that shows a lot of emotions all together produce a beautiful and enchanting book cover. if you truly want to make your book stand out from the rest, retro design is the trend to go with. obscured design obscure design is a style that adds a mystery within the design elements. it uses some unknown languages, symbols, and patterns that throws a more compelling and enticing outlook. it can be in terms of location, font, or figures. the obscure design shows a variation in color intensities. it ranges from darker to lighter. however, these covers are bold and aesthetically pleasing. picture collage using collage to make the book cover has been trending for a couple of years. the beauty these covers hold is eye pleasing. such covers give a cheerful outlook and add more colors to the cover. collage style, providing books with a unique display, is best chosen for books with romantic tales. you can make a collage of either images of leading characters or important scenes from to book to captivate the viewers. real-life inspired photos those how to have a quest to keep things genuine and want to add a realistic touch in almost everything, prefer using real-life inspired images. instead of counting on templates and stock photos, the designers use authentic images and add more life to their covers. the book looks fresh and engaging showing images closer to reality. such covers evolve feeling and connect emotionally with prospective viewers. incredibly detailed designs the last most fascinating trend is adding incredible detailing in the illustration. the book covers are created using most detailed graphics where even the light of a mini light lamp is enhanced to add a unique touch. the quality of such books is evident, and every corner shines brightly. a splash of colors is present on such covers with most enchanting font styles and balanced alignment. such covers outshine competitors conveniently setting the bar higher. each cover unfolds a beauty and adds an unmatched flair to the book. if you want to see some more inspiring designs, take a look at david coen's excellent post, the 100 most creative book cover designs. tweet pin19 share47 66 shares related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author kristen ford kristen ford is a professional writer at bookwriting inc, she loves to write about the leading bookwriting trends and diverse ranging topics. at times when kristine is not busy writing, she can be found searching about foodies stuff. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here find the best book market opportunities in seconds! do you want to sell more books, face less competition, and achieve a higher return on your publishing investments? k-lytics has the answers! create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >