start here courses free classes about articles communication fitness food and drink happiness health infographics leisure lifestyle money motivation parenting productivity psychology quotes relationships success technology work podcast advertising money smartcut advertising top 10 recommendations on money management apps christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast read full profile share pin it tweet share email don’t want to overspend your budget, swipe your credit card too many times, and feel like a financial mess? instead of beating yourself up for the bad financial decisions you’ve ever made, create a new plan! the solution is simple, save more and spend less. but, we all know it’s easier said than done. one problem is finding quality apps that save you time and money, and aren’t just hype. luckily, there’re many great money management apps available at your fingertips. here are 10 reliable money management apps that can help you save money, and crush debt. 1. personal capital when was the last time you’ve tracked your net worth? probably months ago or maybe never. personal capital allows you to easily track your net worth and plan for retirement. here are some of its main features: sync many investment accounts, and expenses (mortgage, credit cards, etc.) in one place discover hidden fees and how much they’re affecting your retirement plan wealth management for investors requiring a long-term strategy with personal you’re free to track your expenses and net worth. available for: ios and android 2. mint if your smartphone could only install a few apps, mint would be one of them. why? because mint tracks all your balances and bills in one place. here are some of its main features: advertising effortlessly track all your bills and balances in one dashboard categorized expenses to understand where you spend your money uncover hidden fees, and determine your investment style with sophisticated retirement tools. feel at ease with managing your money by a reputable company that isn’t going anywhere. available for: ios and android 3. ynab everyone needs a budget, there’s no way around it. ynab (you need a budget) is an easy to use app that will change the way you think about money. their motto is to “give every dollar a job”, and you’ll quickly discover why. here are some of its main features: easily sync all bank accounts in one place visually see your debt paying progress with eye-catching charts and notifications customized categories setting saving goals the best part about ynab is the community that comes along with it. you can hop on the ynab forum to receive support, listen to the ynab podcast or stay tuned for their weekly videos. available for: ios and android 4. wealthfront albert einstein once said “compound interest is the eight wonder in the world”, and for a very good reason. the problem is, most people are scared or unwilling to learn the basics of investing. this is why wealthfront is the perfect solution for the hands-off investors. here are some of its main features: variety of investment account options including ira, roth ira, and more your portfolio composed of 7 different asset classes automatically rebalanced portfolio daily tax loss harvesting wealthfront is perfect for people requiring investment guidance, or prefer a hands-off solution. available for: ios and android advertising 5. clarity money if you’re staying on top of your budget but want to take your finances to the next level, clarity money can help you. clarity money helps you stay under budget and build a personalized savings plan. here are some of its main features: easily cancel subscriptions with one click synchronize bank accounts fast transfer money effortlessly between different accounts clarity money isn’t an app that does it all. but, it does make transferring money and canceling subscriptions fast and efficient. available for: ios and android 6. acorns what if there was a way to quickly gain confidence in investing your money, without too much risk? there is, and acorns is your solution. with acorns’s technology, you’re able to make investments as small as $5. here are some of its main features: automatic contribution option customized portfolio tailored to your needs low management fees ranging from $1-$2 per month stop wasting dollars on expensive coffee. instead, invest them towards a brighter financial future. available for: ios and android 7. albert do you budget by only subtracting your expenses from your income? if so, how would you discover any overpayments or extra money you could save? this is where albert shines, and it does it all free. advertising here are some of its main features: receive notifications for overpayments, hidden fees, and low balances an automatic budget that’s built around your spending and income easily track debt and set new financial goals while albert does offer a paid option, most of its core features are free. so, what better option to save? available for: ios 8. prism have you recently forgot to pay a bill because life got in the way? prism automatically tracks your bills and syncs your bank accounts in one place. here are some of its main features: view all your account balances in one glance bill due dates are automatically pulled and tracked receive early reminders for upcoming bills if your budget is on “fleek” but can’t seem to stay on top of your bills, prism is your go-to app. available for: ios, android, windows, amazon 9. mvelopes remember hearing about people using envelopes to budget their money? well, mvelopes is the new envelope system for this generation. easily create monthly budgets and track your saving goals. here are some of its main features: connect unlimited bank accounts real-time budgeting with auto transaction syncing low monthly $4 fee or $40 annual mvelopes can help you crush debt, save more, and help you stop overspending. with its low monthly fee, it’s worth a try. advertising available for: ios and android 10. wallaby most people don’t have time to track their credit card’s changing rewards and interest rates. because of this, you need help reaping the most of your credit card’s rewards. wallaby is the app that will help you do just that. here are some of its main features: automatic recommendations for the best credit card to use for each transaction a friendly user interface, displaying credit cards with their corresponding images free to use if you’re using the same credit card to make your purchases, you may be leaving money on the table. give wallaby a try if you’re ready to maximize your credit card’s rewards. available for: ios and android take control of your finances and experience financial freedom picture yourself staying on budget and saving more money than you’d ever imagined. it took hard work and dedication but you’d finally learned how to manage your money. you have to start taking control of your spending and saving habits. you now have a list of reliable apps that can help you build better money habits, what are you waiting for? featured photo credit: pexels via pexels.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 5 finance books from warren buffett’s bookshelf how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change advertising advertising more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them more by this author christopher alarcon finance analyst and founder of the financially well off blog & podcast how to use the 5 whys to get to the root cause of any problem 15 best android productivity apps (2020 version) the savvy employees guide to asking for a raise 10 effective time management techniques for busy people 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next what is creativity? we all have it, and need it how to set stretch goals and keep your team motivated why you need to set future goals (and how to reach them) 11 strengths all great leaders have advertising advertising money smartcut advertising last updated on march 25, 2020 how to set financial goals and actually meet them ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement read full profile share pin it tweet share email finances can push anyone to the point of extreme anxiety and worry. easier said than done, planning finances is not an egg meant for everyone’s basket. and that’s why most of us are often living pay check to pay check. but did anyone tell you that it is actually not a tough task to meet your financial goals? in this article, we will explore ways on how to set financial goals and then actually meet them with ease. table of contents 5 steps to set financial goals 11 ways to achieve your financial goals ensuring healthy savings making smart investments the bottom line more tips about personal finance management 5 steps to set financial goals though setting financial goals might seem to be a daunting task but if one has the will and clarity of thought, it is rather easy. try using these steps: 1. be clear about the objectives any goal (let alone financial) without a clear objective is nothing more than a pipe dream. and this couldn’t be more true for financial matters. it is often said that savings is nothing but deferred consumption. therefore if you are saving today, then you should be crystal clear about what it is for. it could be anything like kid’s education, retirement, marriage, that dream vacation, fancy car etc. once the objective is clear, put a monetary value to that objective and the time frame. the important point at this step of goal setting is to list all the objectives, however small they may be, that you foresee in the future and put a value to it. 2. keep them realistic it’s good to be an optimistic person but being a pollyanna is not desirable. similarly, while it might be a good thing to keep your financial goals a bit aggressive, going out of the line will definitely hurt your chances of achieving them. it’s important that you keep your goals realistic in nature for it will help you stay the course and keep you motivated throughout the journey. 3. account for inflation ronald reagan once said – “inflation is as violent as a mugger, as frightening as an armed robber and as deadly as a hitman”. and this quote sums up the best what inflation could do your financial goals. therefore account for inflation whenever you are putting a monetary value to a financial objective that is far away in the future. for example, if one of your financial goal is your son’s college education, which is 15 years hence, then inflation would increase the monetary burden by more than 50% if inflation is mere 3%. so always account for inflation. 4. short term vs long term just like every calorie is not the same, the approach towards achieving every financial goal will not be the same. it is important to bifurcate goals in short term and long term. as a rule of thumb, any financial goal, which is due in next 3 years should be termed as short term goal. any longer duration goals are to be classified as long term goals. this bifurcation of goals into short term vs long term will help in choosing the right investment instrument to achieve them. more on this later when we talk about how to achieve financial goals. advertising 5. to each to his own the journey of setting financial goals is an individualistic affair i.e. your goals are your own goals and are determined by your want to achieve them. a lot of times we get on the bandwagon of goal setting only to realize later on that it was not meant for us. it is important that your goals are actually your goals and not inspired by someone else. take a hard look at this step at all the goals you’ve set for after this step, you will be on the way to achieve them. by now, you would be ready with your financial goals, now it’s time to go all out and achieve them. 11 ways to achieve your financial goals whenever we talk about chasing any financial goal, it is usually a 2 step process – ensuring healthy savings making smart investments you will need to save enough; and invest those savings wisely so that they grow over a period of time to help you achieve goals. so let’s get down to ensuring healthy savings. ensuring healthy savings self realization is the best form of realisation and unless you decide what your current financial position is, you aren’t heading anywhere. this is the focal point from where you start your journey of achieving financial goals. 1. track expenses the first and the foremost thing to be done is to track your monthly expenses. use any of the expense tracking mobile apps to record your expenses. once you start doing it diligently, you would be surprised to see how small expenses add up to a sizeable amount. also categorize those expenses into different bucket so that you know which bucket is eating the most of your pay check. this record keeping will pave the way for cutting down on un-wanted expenses and pump up your savings rate. 2. pay yourself first generally, savings come after all the expenses have been taken care of. this is a classical mistake which almost everyone of us do. we pay ourselves last! ideally, this should be planned upside down. we should be paying ourselves first and then to the world i.e. we should be taking out the planned saving amount first and then manage all the expenses from the rest. the best way to actually implement is to put the savings on automatic mode i.e. money flowing automatically into different financial instruments (for example – mutual funds, retirement corpus etc) every month. taking the automatic route will make us lose control of our money and hence will compel us to manage in what’s left with us thereby increasing the savings rate. 3. make a plan and vow to stick with it budgeting is the best to get around the uncertainty that financial plans always pose. decide in advance how spending has to be made. advertising nowadays, several money management apps and wallets can help you do this automatically. it’s easy and who knows, you may just end up doing what people fail to do. at first, you may not be able to stick to your plans completely but don’t let that become a reason why you stop budgeting entirely. make use of technology solutions you like. explore options and alternatives that let you make use of the available wallet options and choose the one that suits you the most. in time, you will get accustomed to making use of these solutions. you will find that they make it simpler for you to follow your plan, which would have been difficult otherwise. 4. rise again even if you fall let’s be realistic. it’s not like the world will come to an end if you made one mistake. this isn’t called leniency but discipline. if you fail to meet your budget for a month, don’t give up the entire effort just like that. instead, start again. remember that flexible plans are the most realistic plans. so go forward and try to follow your financial goals as planned but if for some reason, the plan gets out of hand for you, do not give up on it just yet. this has a lot to do with your psychology rather than any material commitment. all you have to do is to stay on the road and vow to stay on it, no matter how much you fall down. 5. make savings a habit and not a goal in the book nudge, authors richard thaler and cass sunstein advocate that in order to achieve any goal, it should be broken down into habits since habits are more intuitive for people to adapt to. make savings a habit rather than a goal. while it might seem to be counter intuitive to many but there are some deft ways of doing it. for example: always eat out (if at all) during weekdays rather than weekends. usually weekends are expensive. make it a habit and you would in turn be saving a great deal. if you are travelling buff, try to travel during off season. your outlay will be much less. if you go out for shopping, always look out for coupons and see where can you get the best deal. so the key point is to imbibe the action that results in savings rather than on the savings itself, which is the outcome. focusing on the outcome will bring out the feeling of sacrifice which will be harder to sustain over a period of time. advertising 6. talk about it sticking to the saving schedule (to achieve financial goals) is not an easy journey. there will be many distractions from those who are not aligned with your mission. and it would be rather easy to lose the grip over your discipline. therefore in order to stay the course, it is advisable that you keep yourself surrounded with people who are also on the same bandwagon. daily discussions with them will keep you motivated to move forward. 7. maintain a journal for some people, writing helps a great deal in making sure that they achieve what they plan. so if you are one of them, maintain a proper journal, where you write down your goals and also jot down the extent to which you managed to meet them. this will help you in reviewing how far you have come and which goals you have met. use this journal to write down all essential points such as your short term, mid term and long term goals, your current sources of income, your regular expenses which you are aware of and any committed expenses which are of recurring nature. when you have a written commitment on paper, you are going to feel more energised to follow the plan and stick to it. moreover, it is going to be a lot more easier for you to follow you and track your progress. at this point, you should be ready with your financial goals and would be doing brilliantly with savings; now it’s time to talk about the big daddy – investments. making smart investments savings by themselves don’t take anyone too far. however savings when invested wisely can do wonders and we are at that stage where we will talk about making smart investments. 8. consult a financial advisor investments doesn’t come naturally to most of us therefore rather than dabbling with it ourselves, it is wise to consult a financial advisor. talk to him/her about your financial goals and savings and then seek advice for the best investment instruments to achieve your goals. 9. choose your investment instrument wisely though your financial advisor will suggest the best investment instruments, it doesn’t hurt to know a bit about them. just like “no one is born a criminal”, no investment instrument is bad or good. it is the application of that instrument that makes all the difference. do you remember we talked about bifurcating financial goals in short term and long term? it is here where that classification will help. advertising so as a general rule, for all your short term financial goals, choose an investment instrument that has debt nature for example fixed deposits, debt mutual funds etc. the reason for going for debt instruments is that chances of capital loss is less as compared to equity instruments. 10. compounding is the eighth wonder einstein once remarked about compounding, compound interest is the eighth wonder of the world. he who understands it, earns it… he who doesn’t… pays it. so make friends with this wonder kid. and sooner you become friends with it, quicker you will reach closer to your financial goals. start investing early so that time is on your side to help you bear the fruits of compounding. 11. measure, measure, measure all of us do good when it comes to earning more per month but fail miserably when it comes to measuring the investments; taking stock of how our investments are doing. if there is one single step where everything (so far) can go wrong, it is at this step – measuring the progress. if we don’t measure the progress timely, then we would be shooting in the dark. we wouldn’t know if our saving rate is appropriate or not; whether financial advisor is doing a decent job; whether we are moving closer to our target or not. do measure everything. if you can’t measure it all yourself, ask your financial advisor to do it for you. but do it! the bottom line this completes the list of tips for you to set financial goals and actually achieve them with not so great difficulty. as you can see, all it requires is discipline. but guess that’s the most difficult part! more tips about personal finance management 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind top 10 recommendations on money management apps featured photo credit: rawpixel via unsplash.com share pin it tweet share email advertising advertising read next 20 better money habits to help you increase your savings the best ways to save money even impulsive spenders can get behind how to improve credit score quickly with these 10 tactics that work advertising advertising more by this author ankit garg serial entrepreneur and working towards early retirement how to set financial goals and actually meet them 10 ways to build positive and effective work relationships 10 best ted talks about procrastination that will ignite your motivation how to work more efficiently and stop rushing to meet deadlines 17 practical money skills that will set you up for early retirement advertising trending in smartcut 1 how to set ambitious career goals (with examples) 2 15 ways to set professional goals (examples included) 3 how to change habits when you feel stuck in a rut 4 need journal inspiration? 15 journal ideas to kickstart 5 how to set financial goals and actually meet them read next top 10 recommendations on money management apps how to make the career change you need (the complete guide) 5 signs you’re ready for a career change what is creativity? we all have it, and need it about write for us contact us terms and conditions privacy policy © 2005 - 2020 lifehack · all rights reserved.