content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c content marketing consulting and social media strategy twitter facebook linkedin rss search menu contact search this website: search the top 4 holiday marketing pet peeves authors: jay baer jay baer is the founder of convince & convert, a hall of fame keynote speaker and emcee, host of the award-winning social pros podcast, and the author of six books including talk triggers: the complete guide to creating customers with word of mouth. view all posts follow jaybaer posted under: baer facts, digital marketing do you become a different marketer during the holiday season? until holiday season begins, you spend countless hours researching your audiences, building buyer personas, and executing strategies that put the customer’s experience first. all of your work is rooted in best practice and conducted with an innovative spirit. i mean, let’s be honest, you’re really good at this. then, out of nowhere, the holiday marketing season takes hold. grab your copy of “delete santa: holiday marketing nightmares revealed” now. all of those best practices and innovative, creative ideas take a backseat to what needs to be done for the final push before year’s end. we don’t act like ourselves. we send multiple emails daily. we execute a variety of promotional ideas we would never consider in q2. we try to tailor our messages in ways we aren’t quite ready to do. the result is a marketing tsunami that results in a lot of noise and a bunch of tired marketing professionals. here’s the thing: we know we aren’t ourselves during the holidays. and it makes sense why we act the way we do in the final quarter of the year. according to a national retail foundation survey, consumers spent 4.1 percent more during the holiday season in 2018 than they did in 2017, for a total of $720 billion. recently, we decided to ask a group of marketers what they think of the profession’s approach during the holiday season. we partnered with our great friends at oracle marketing cloud and surveyed more than 400 seasoned marketers across the u.s. we asked them what they like and dislike most about the holiday marketing season. the answers we received were revealing, candid and funny. we took our survey responses and developed a set of hilarious, spot-on cartoons that illustrate how marketers feel about q4 activities. we want you to grab an eggnog (spiked, of course) and download “holiday marketing nightmares revealed” now. in the meantime, here’s a summary of the top 4 holiday marketing pet peeves, according to marketers. 1. when santa appears too early we don’t like holiday campaigns that begin too early taking the top spot for biggest holiday annoyance is holiday campaigns that coincide with back-to-school shopping. sixty-three percent of marketers say it drives them nuts when they see a holiday marketing campaign in full flux right before labor day or just before march madness. we believe there’s a window when it’s appropriate to do holiday marketing even though we don’t necessarily abide by that window. 63% of marketers say it drives them nuts when they see a holiday marketing campaign in full flux right before labor day or just before march madness. click to tweet 2. cyber monday sales that start november 1st we could do without the stress  during the five-day period from thanksgiving to cyber monday, 70% of americans shop. black friday is the busiest shopping day during this period, with almost 115 million shoppers. perhaps, it’s because we know this fact that we get a little carried away. marketers’ second top holiday annoyance is the practice of creating sales and promotions for black friday or cyber monday that are so hot they induce consumer stress. 3. holiday email overload we email and email and email the third top frustration marketers have is using the holidays as a justification to send more emails. nearly half of marketers said this practice got under their skin. interestingly, while some survey respondents claim we abuse email during the holiday marketing season, others say it’s justified and consumer behavior data backs the increase. 4. overuse of the “t’was the night before…” we re-connect with the word t’was this is the most interesting result our survey revealed. according to survey respondents, more than half of marketers believe it’s time to retire the christmas poem, a visit from st. nicholas. sixty percent of us are bothered by campaigns that use phrases from this poem and believe t’was time we looked to other sources for creative holiday inspiration. 60% of marketers are sick of campaigns that use phrases that include t’was the night before click to tweet there is plenty more we do during the holiday season that we wouldn’t do any other time of year. all of those ideas have been illustrated for you to enjoy in this ebook now. while you're here get our best tips. join the smartest marketers who receive our weekly update. article continues while you're here other top articles content marketing 4 higher education content marketing examples that any school can implement zontee hou social media marketing, social media research the 4 best practices of healthcare social media marketing for 2020 lauren teague content marketing, greatest hits how to build a content calendar (plus a free template) anna hrach and jamie griffiths article continues who have we helped? who have we helped? we work to double your digital and we've done that for some of the best companies in the world. find out how we have helped organizations from higher education to entertainment, non-profit and fortune 1000 brands. find out more what great brands do that good brands don't in content marketing okay content is easy. killer content is hard. this nifty ebook shows you the difference, based on our real-world work with dozens of brands. a must-read! how we help: content marketing consulting content marketing creation social media consulting b2b influencer marketing digital marketing consulting customer experience consulting information: weekly email blog podcasts our locations: austin bloomington fort worth new york orlando phoenix portland contact us: contact twitter facebook linkedin rss convince & convert, llc global hq 885 s. college mall road, #376 bloomington, in 47401 © 2008 - 2020 convince & convert, llc privacy policy website by glass mountains close content marketing content marketing consulting email / messaging consulting content marketing creation content marketing training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to content marketing updates social media social media consulting social media training b2b influencer marketing clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to social media updates digital marketing digital marketing consulting digital marketing training email / messaging consulting clients / case studies articles subscribe to digital marketing updates customer experience cx consulting cs consulting cx / cs training clients / case studies articles podcast subscribe to customer experience updates industries higher education b2b / tech saas financial services travel and hospitality hospital and healthcare 17 problems free resources weekly email podcasts blog about our story our team c&c speakers books from c&c contact close this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn morei accept