home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance search emerging education technologies home about contact custom training posts by category press/media kelly’s university business articles apped review disclaimer ccpa compliance home morning motivation top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject by luisa brenton - april 18, 2016 27 share facebook twitter (image source) look for ways to make it relevant and fun – you and your students will come out ahead i'm always up for a reminder about the things we need to do capture student's attention while learning about a new subject. and it's a great way to start the week! – kw making your students interested in a subject can be a real challenge. there are so many variables that can affect their engagement. lack of interest can be caused by difficultly concentrating, family problems, emotional difficulties, learning disabilities, and many other factors. sometimes it’s just plain boredom – not everything is about fun all the time. even the bubbling hormones running through the teenagers’ bodies can cause difficulty to concentrate on anything other than the schoolmate in the nearest chair. having said that, as a teacher, you still have to do your best and try to get them to learn at least the basics of any subject. here you will have to become creative and try one or more of the following ways to get their attention and interest. 1 – make them see it as part of their daily life try as hard as you can to find a way to relate the subject to their daily lives. it will make it much more likely for them to be invested in what you are explaining. for example, if the subject is literature, try to show what they can learn from the characters’ behaviour that they can apply to their own lives. 2 – make it fun yes, sometimes, some subjects are just not fun. you are well aware of it, but you still have to teach this “boring” subject to them. how about making the learning process a bit more fun? you can try to create some kind of competition, or game, that can help them to learn, or maybe even use songs or videos. sometimes, even a funny cartoon can be what you need to make them have a laugh and never forget the subject. 3 – show the relevance to their future careers students think that, at the end of the day, they are at school so they can get ready to get good jobs in the future. this is how most of the people (parents included) see school nowadays, unfortunately. so take advantage of it, and try to relate your subject to how it can be applied in a work environment. tell them all about how doctors, engineers, it developers, writers or dancers can use that information to become successful. 4 – let them participate in the whole process if you want to see your students really engaged about something, let them participate. and not only after you distribute the tasks but from the very beginning. ask them for input on the subject that will be presented, which resources will be used and how they will be evaluated. and talking of resources… 5 – use multiple resources to avoid students’ sleeping on their desks during your presentation, try using multiple resources. the human voice can be very hypnotizing to some people, and others are easy distracted by it, as you know. bring videos, music, slideshows, toys and games, tell stories, bring in a special guest for a talk. 6 – make it personal try to relate the subject to your own life and circumstances. you don’t necessarily have to tell a private story about yourself, but tell them something about how you felt when you got in touch with that subject for the very first time, or how you have applied it in your life so far. 7 – leave the exams for later do not start the conversation about the new subject telling them about a test on the material. unless the assessment will be more engaging and fun (think project base learning, inquiry learning, etc), this should be the final part of the process and not a source of anxiety. 8 – change the environment sitting in a classroom for a whole day is hardly anyone’s ideal day, especially if you are young and full of energy. so why not move the class to a different environment and see how it affects their learning process? try taking them to museums, beaches, for a nature walk, or even to the school’s backyard. even the fresh air on their face might help to keep them alert and more interested. 9 – make it achievable if you scare them by saying that this is a very complex subject and that they will be in trouble if they don’t manage to learn it, you are bound to fail. students usually overreact under pressure and don't see these messages as a challenge at all. try to take steps that help them feel they are capable of learning the material. 10 – understand their interests and in order to make any of the tips above work, it is mandatory that you know your students’ interests. if you know about their hobbies and goals, you may be able to better relate the subject to their lives. conclusion getting the best from your students might not be easy – but we should try to achieve it all the time, ‘boring’ subjects included. remember that things have changed and what worked for you might not work for a class of children or teenagers nowadays. they have different demands and have to live up to new expectations, so be prepared to understand them and offer the best class you can. related posts knocking it out of the park for our students: 20 ideas to inspire, motivate enabling students to acquire ownership of learning – one teacher’s collaborative approach living in beta and moon shot dreams – inspired teaching with @followmolly exploring self-driven learning and student motivation (ferlazzo) tags engaging students make lessons relevant motivating students student motivation student ownership of learning share facebook twitter tweet previous articleunlocking financial literacy awareness with free finance & accounting tool and lessons next articlemastery learning and grading: changing our approach to outcomes and grades luisa brenton http://www.trustmypaper.com/ luisa brenton is a blogger. she was born in italy, graduated from the st. louis school of milan and went to chicago to pursue higher education at the chicago's public research university. she had been working as a brand developer for 4 years. luisa is interested in modern literature and new films. she is interested in journalism as well. you can find her on facebook and twitter. 27 comments essaysmaster march 14, 2020 at 1:38 am long time reader, first-time poster. just wanted to say that i almost always find your info relevant and helpful and wanted to say thanks and keep up the good work. me february 4, 2020 at 6:59 am this is interesting. thanks adweb studio january 8, 2020 at 1:52 am it can be a real challenge to make your students interested in a subject. 2019 emergingedtech year in review: your faves & my faves | emerging education technologies december 30, 2019 at 11:23 am […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject […] how codemonkey taught thousands of kids to code in 2 weeks | codemonkey december 10, 2019 at 4:54 am […] if you chose the latter, we like where your mind is at. we all remember how fun school field trips were when we were younger and changing a student’s environment to facilitate fun activities helps boost kids’ ability to learn. […] ae2ze.com november 17, 2019 at 2:24 am […] https://www.emergingedtech.com/2016/04/10-ways-to-increase-students-interest-in-a-subject/ […] anita october 12, 2019 at 3:33 am thanks for your amazing tips on being a good teacher. i will share these tips with my kid, i hope i will get a better result. the tips were really good. rosie lantsberg august 7, 2019 at 7:18 am i would like to thank you for the effort you have made to analyze the factors which should be taken into consideration to improve students interest in a subject. the teaching profession is a unique and challenging profession and an educator should learn some tricks to improve his teaching ability. enrolling in a professional development course could be very helpful to understand the basic aspects which should be taken into consideration to improve his teaching ability. besides, professional development course also helps an educator by improving his classroom management ability which has a significant positive influence on the productivity of the class. helen stewart july 17, 2019 at 10:27 am dear luisa, thank you so much for your top 10 ways to increase your students interest. the information was so helpful to me! i am not an educated teacher and i don’t know much about technology but i have a student in bible class who needs a lot of different things to do. he completes has lesson in about 15 minutes and is ready to leave. i will attempt to stimulate his interest by utilizing every and any means possible. thanks again, cambria school july 8, 2019 at 6:18 am hi… you must be a very good teacher, like all point mentioned by you in this article are to the point and very relevant. will definitely share with mine colleague. regards, rajesh mental health and teachers: why more needs to be done | emerging education technologies april 30, 2019 at 7:13 am […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject […] geek squad april 22, 2019 at 7:42 am wow; the ways described to make a boring lesson an interesting one for students are great, as being a teacher the main objective is to make the students understand the concept with fun-filled learning and memorizing easily what is taught to them. thanks for sharing unique ways and keep posting. student motivation: 10 tips to increase it february 5, 2019 at 7:01 am […] the classroom is a good place to learn, especially if you have created the right atmosphere. however, after a while, even the right atmosphere might not be enough. it could become boring just sitting on a chair or bench behind a desk all day, every day. a change of scenery can be a good source of motivation to renew interest in a particular topic or subject. […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject – cutting classes_thyme_piano_trasmonte october 14, 2018 at 9:06 pm […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject according to emergingedtech […] drop-out rates october 1, 2018 at 8:55 pm […] based in luisa brenton, lack of interest can be caused by difficultly concentrating, family problems, emotional difficulties, learning disabilities, and many other factors. sometimes it’s just plain boredom – not everything is about fun all the time. even the bubbling hormones running through the teenagers’ bodies can cause difficulty to concentrate on anything other than the schoolmate in the nearest chair. top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject […] discover ways to draft essays similar to what a skilled domyassignment | j62011 july 19, 2018 at 3:40 pm […] at conditions and terms to explore more about we allow deliver ones preparing to the the next type a knockout post when you have rarely published an essay before the company. the time relates to supply to them a […] ways to post essays like for instance the authority domyassignment | golffans.biz july 19, 2018 at 3:38 pm […] concern i managed to write confidently we are of any good need all your writing to the later level a knockout post you probably have seldom created an essay before and get very best […] great ways to motivate kids to study | teresay may 23, 2018 at 8:40 pm […] good way of raising your kid’s interest for learning is by focusing on their interests. each child tends to be passionate about a certain subject of […] sai january 29, 2018 at 11:57 am i don’t know what to do. now i had completely lost my interest towards the studies.after reaching higher secondary class,i became a lazy … but i want to recover myself… so please help me with this kinds of tricks thanking you pay someone to write my essay january 12, 2018 at 7:29 am great article it was very interesting and informative. payal august 25, 2017 at 12:54 am hello sir, i am payal and i complete my graduation with b.ed. recently i got job a primary teacher and it is very difficult to convert their interest in study of primary students. i am very confused last few month, but now i am sure to easy study given my students and also convert him for trying easy process. thanks… manshi april 17, 2017 at 6:51 am i am manshi, thanks for this article. its help me out of under presser for my new job in teaching faculty. i started to teaching just 6 month before and my subject is history and language. this are subjects make boring to all students in the classroom. its fill very bad and dose not take interest in the study, so after the 3 month i fill very bad for teaching style. then i started to know about their interest and their hobbies so many of students now connecting with me and follow my steps and also take seriously of my stories. thank you so much….. manshi top 10 ways to increase your students’ in... may 9, 2016 at 7:12 am […] (image source) look for ways to make it relevant and fun – you and your students will come out ahead i’m always up for a reminder about the things we need to do capture student’s attention while learning about a […] deepti may 1, 2016 at 11:56 pm i am totally agree with all these points to increase interest level of students, most of the students gets bored in my subjects (history and social sciences), after reading this posts i will make sure some required changes in my teaching style to make my session interesting..! thank you deepti roy high school teacher at cbse top 10 ways to increase your students’ in... april 18, 2016 at 12:06 pm […] having said that, as a teacher, you still have to do your best and try to get them to learn at least the basics of any subject. here you will have to become creative and try one or more of the following ways to get their attention and interest. […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject | paul sisler april 18, 2016 at 9:09 am […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject […] top 10 ways to increase your students’ in... april 18, 2016 at 7:56 am […] (image source) look for ways to make it relevant and fun – you and your students will come out ahead i’m always up for a reminder about the things we need to do capture student’s attention while learning about a… […] leave a reply cancel reply please enter your comment! please enter your name here you have entered an incorrect email address! please enter your email address here * search the site! * get a copy of the free education technology resources ebook as our thank you for subscribing to our blog posts! subscribe name: email: we respect your email privacy categories categories select category 3 minute teaching with tech tip (video tutorials) 3d printing in education adaptive learning administrative solutions artificial intelligence assessment augmented reality, virtual reality best education and technology videos blogs & blogging book reviews collaboration & brainstorming comics and cartooning competency based education cyber safety awareness and prevention digital badges digital literacy education technology success stories educational games & gamification electronic portfolios facebook (classroom and instructional uses) financial literacy awareness flipping the classroom (reverse instruction) fln hub syndicated posts free tools & resources future of education technology interactive white boards interviews – education technology thought leaders ipads and other tablet devices iphones and smartphones learning analytics learning management & course management systems lecture capture making the case for education technologies mobile learning resources moocs (massive open online courses) morning motivation open educational resources oer picture and image editing podcasting, vodcasting, & video hosting polls, surveys portals powerpoint presentation tools professional development project based learning screencasting social media & social learning special needs students story telling & timelines student centered learning student response systems teaching coding twitter uncategorized workshops & conferences _ miscellaneous tools and topics emergingedtech on social media 9,687fanslike 320followersfollow 9,733followersfollow 2,290subscriberssubscribe popular posts 27 meaningful ways to use edtech & make your classes extra awesome this year! top 10 ways to increase your students’ interest in a subject 10 of the most engaging uses of instructional technology (with dozens of resources and tools) real uses of virtual reality in education: how schools are using vr 8 examples of transforming lessons through the samr cycle the multiple uses of augmented reality in education 20 fun free tools for interactive classroom collaboration mayer’s 12 principles of multimedia learning are a powerful design resource 8 engaging ways to use technology in the classroom to create lessons that aren’t boring come explore the flipped learning network! recognition for emergingedtech! even more news how to get your students to perform better – the scientific... march 27, 2020 5 things schools should do to help ensure student data privacy march 24, 2020 the bright side of remote teaching and administration – when preparation... march 20, 2020 popular category _ miscellaneous tools and topics502 free tools & resources502 future of education technology315 making the case for education technologies283 ipads and other tablet devices259 professional development239 iphones and smartphones200 ©