skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » plugins » top 17 free wordpress tab plugins 2020 top 17 free wordpress tab plugins 2020 march 24, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins 0 comments you must be familiar with tabs. in a paper file, they refer to those colored strips that help you open to exactly the page you want. you’ll see a similar option in a browser as well, where they help you to get to the page or website you want to visit. tabs offer easy user experience—users can simply click on a tab to view the content inside it. a number of quality wordpress tab plugins are available, which help you create tabs that use distinct icons, colors, and animated effects. tabs can be really handy when you have a load of content to get across to readers in a limited space. at the same time, they retain both the design and user interface. the advantage with tabs is that a reader will not have to scroll long pages. moreover, tabs can improve conversion rates by adopting a structured approach. with wordpress, it’s easy to create tabs to present content neatly to visitors in tabbed sections. all your information is split into sections for convenient consumption. some users maintain that hiding content behind tabs somewhat lessens the seo advantage since google prefers the content to appear immediately on the page load. in fact, some users do report a fall in search rankings when they move content behind a tab. despite this viewpoint, some may want to tab sections, such as faqs. so, it would be necessary to weigh the neat tabbed layout against any possible seo disadvantage before making a choice. if you happen to need a theme for your faq or knowledge-based website, check out this post. the following plugins help add clean, responsive, and structured tabs to your pages, posts, and custom post content and even within them. all the plugins in this list are free, though many of them allow you to upgrade to a premium version. wp tab widget what makes wp tab widget attractive is it’s ajax-powered lazy load feature. this ensures that your content loads fast. it can help you create a tab widget for your sidebar where you can place popular posts, comments, recent posts, or tags for greater clicks. with 80,000+ active installs, the plugin includes features such as layout styles and cache system. the built-in pagination system allows pages to load only when necessary. the tabs created by the plugin are fully responsive, and you can display them in any widget area. you can set the post date, excerpt, number of comments, and tabs that appear in the widget. it gives you control over the what goes into the widget—title length, thumbnails, and excerpts. the design is clean and simple, and the user interface is not hard to use at all. smooth animation displays when a user shifts tabs, which is quite delightful and makes up for the minimal scope for customization. this plugin is free and can be used on an unlimited number of sites. it’s also seo-friendly and well-optimized for speed. wp tab widget pro, priced at $29, has a number of additional features, including a scope for customization. more info / download tabby responsive tabs tabby responsive tabs adds tabs to your site using a shortcode. besides, you’ll need to add a single line of code to add tabs to your sidebar. it comes with many convenient options, like keyboard access for tabs and multiple sets of tabs on the same page. using jquery, it creates horizontal tabs that automatically switches to an accordion interface to fit the width of the screen. this lightweight plugin enjoys 30,000+ active installs and can add amazing fonts to your site. it uses a semantic header and a content markup. the base version does not include an admin panel, but you can customize tab display by replacing the built-in css rules with a custom version. a pro add-on, tabby responsive tabs customizer, can enable a settings panel for your tabs. you can choose to go with the default styles and select from several presets. if you wish, you can even set custom colors. you can also add cool icons to your tab titles. there are other paid add-ons as well, which can add many more features. more info / download tabs tabs responsive is another bootstrap-based plugin, and it can add tabs in both horizontal and vertical styles. you can add multiple tabs on pages and posts and vary the font styles and color schemes of your content. a widget option is available, and it’ll help you add a widget to any widget area on your site. you can add images, audios, videos, or a shortcode in the tab description field. the plugin works by using shortcodes to add tabs, allowing you to add multiple tabs anywhere in the theme. it integrates with drag-and-drop builders and supports font awesome icons. the pro version offers many design templates and animation styles, with background overlay and on hover tabs. it allows you to customize the width and height as well as choose to hide or display all the tabs on the page load. more info / download custom product tabs for woocommerce if you would like to boost your woocommerce store, one of the ways of doing it is with custom tabs. what are these tabs all about? they work on a per product basis, unlocking more features to add stuff like additional information, details, specification and anything else that will make your items more buyable. you can create custom product tabs individually, but you can also save the template and append them to multiple items if necessary. custom product tabs for woocommerce is a simple wordpress tab plugin that gives your ecommerce platform another layer of amazingness. you can effortlessly create, edit, rearrange and delete tabs and customize them accordingly. for your information, the tab area uses wordpress’ standard text editor, allowing you to add not just text, but images, shortcodes and even html. more info / download ultimate blocks ultimate blocks is a versatile and highly practical wordpress tab plugin that simplifies the process of creating compelling content with gutenberg. it is an all-in-one plugin that delivers a ton of different possibilities on how to enhance your website. and ultimate blocks works ideally for bloggers and marketers, but anyone out there can take it to his or her full advantage anyway. bear in mind, with future plugin updates, you can expect new features to drop for your convenience. fyi, there are already seventeen available. speaking of the goodies that ultimate blocks brings to the table, let’s mention some. reviews, tabbed content, call-to-actions, notification box, testimonials, social sharing, countdown timer, progress bar, you name it, the list goes on and on. if you would like to spice up the experience, ultimate blocks is the way to go. more info / download responsive tabs with accordions you can now swiftly craft neat and convenient tabs that will decorate your website. with responsive tabs with accordions plugin, you can make it happen in a snap. along with the default settings and layouts, you can also fully customize the tabs and make them congruent with your page. these tabs are perfect for adding extra information to your websites, as well as faqs, in an uncluttered way. of course, the final layout is mobile-ready and cross-browser compatible to appear on any device and platform flawlessly. from one location, you can configure settings and add your content and you can have it all ready to go live sooner rather than later. before you dive in, you can also check out live preview page and get the gist of it by watching the how-to video. from then on, you will be able to hammer out fresh tabs like a professional. more info / download tabbed tabbed is a versatile and practical wordpress tab plugin with numerous options to craft custom tabs. regardless of the website you run, be it online store, blog or business page, an addition of handy tabs can elevate the experience. from animated, horizontal and vertical to circle and faq, tabbed is perfect for all and then some. in a short video presentation, you can see how simple making tabs in your wordpress admin dashboard is. so straightforward anyone can do it even if a beginner at web development. when utilizing the power of tabbed, you can create fully modified tabs that suit your website and branding regulations perfectly. it also creates a web design that works on all devices and browsing platforms, as well as retina screens. in the tabbed kit, you will get a whopping collection of 31 styles of tabs, neat transitions, a widget for posts and pages, as well as complete customization freedom. more info / download woocommerce custom product tabs lite if you would like to add even more information to your products and keep it all in perfect order, woocommerce custom product tabs lite is the way to go. this nifty wordpress tab plugin adds custom tabs to each of your product pages, which you can then use for adding additional information, specs, videos, custom html, shortcodes, you name it. even reviews! it is always wise to consider adding as much information about the product as possible and raise your potential to the ultimate height. with woocommerce custom product tabs lite, you can do just that. when you install and activate the plugin, the custom tab feature appears in your woocommerce products section. you can then add a name/title of the tab, as well as provide all the different information and whatnot in the content area. more info / download wp tabs adding tabs to your wordpress website does not require you to be a web developer. in short, you do not really need to have coding skills to get the job done. however, you do need a dedicated wordpress tab plugin that gets things to happen for you. with wp tabs, you can now enrich your website with custom tabs, adding another layer of organization to your online presence. of course, there are numerous reasons why to add tabs to your page, so do not limit yourself in any way. the features of wp tabs are very many, ensuring everyone gets the most out of it. first and foremost, the appearance is modern and stunning, as well as perfectly in tune with mobile devices. moreover, wp tabs comes with fantastic customization options (over thirty!), two tabs positions, drag and drop sorting, shortcode generator and rtl compatibility. more info / download wp responsive tabs wp responsive tabs is a neat and easy to use free wordpress plugin that helps you introduce different tabs to your website. of course, without the need to be a programmer! nope, you will never need to touch a single string of code when working with wp responsive tabs. yet the outcome will be professional and sophisticated. what’s more, wp responsive tabs fully supports horizontal and vertical tabs, as well as accordion style. you can also add as many tabs as you want, as there is no limitation to that. set custom order, user shortcodes, preview tabs from your admin dashboard and style them with custom coloring. the final creation will also be entirely responsive to ensure excellent performance on desktop and mobile devices. keep in mind, if you would like to unlock even more features, wp responsive tabs’ pro plan is the way to go. more info / download everest tab lite everest tab lite is a modern, sophisticated and easy to use wordpress plugin for building tabs of all kinds. you can use them for descriptions, displaying additional content, questions and answers, you name it, the options are there, you just need to put your imagination on full-whack. out of the box, everest tab lite comes with three gorgeous templates which will speed up the process. not only that, but the outcome will surely be outstanding and interest sparking. when creating, organizing and building the tab section, use the power of dragging and dropping to get things moving forward. each tab also sports wordpress’ text editor which allows you to add content like you would when creating a new post. simple as pie if you will. additional customization features are also available for you to fine-tune the appearance of your freshly crafted tabs. more info / download tabs the tabs wordpress plugin uses css3 and html to help you add responsive tab grids. it’s fast as there is no javascript to enqueue. using this plugin, you can add any number of tab grids using a shortcode. it can convert to an accordion based on the width of the screen. it allows background images for the tabs area, custom default background color, and custom font color for tabs header and content. the premium plugin includes three themes, nested and vertical tabs, shortcode inside tabs, and auto rotate tabs. more info / download responsive tabs when you install and activate responsive tabs, it adds a tabs section to the admin panel, from where you can create tabbed content for your website. there’s a lot you can do while creating the tabs, such as choosing a color, reordering them whenever you want, and displaying them on any location you choose using a shortcode. the plugin also shrinks to an accordion, and you can pick the breakpoint at which it collapses. the plugin is fully translatable. the premium plugin creates tabs that link directly to external pages, add icons for your tabs, and offers a choice of several background presets. you can integrate your tabs with social media, too. more info / download simple side tab simple side tab is good for increasing conversions as it adds sticky tabs to your site. using the plugin, you can add a “global call to action” to your website and vertical tabs to either side of the browser window. the tabs can be linked to any external page. the tab stays in place even as a visitor scrolls down so it’s always visible. it’s responsive and works great on mobiles, too. using filters, it’s possible to modify the tab text output as well as turn the display on and off. from a simple screen setting, you can set the text for the tab, choose fonts, set internal or external links for the tabs, and use unlimited colors for tab elements. more info / download responsive wordpress tabs plugin with the responsive wordpress tabs plugin, you can use an html code to create tabs in two responsive modes. it allows you to browse the tabs in two ways—by adding navigation arrows to the header or by adding a menu button to display the extra tabs in a popup. when it comes to smaller screens, you have the option to display only the tab icons while hiding the text. both horizontal and vertical tabs are possible, as well as the addition of custom images as icons for the tabs. else, you can pick an icon from the font awesome library. you can open a tab not only by clicking on it but also by using the specific url. the default tab id can also be specified. a commercial version that permits you to use the plugin on commercial websites and removes the “wonderplugin” watermark is also available. more info / download xpert tab xpert tab is a shortcode builder that generates any number of tab sets on any page or post and customizes them as well. you can visualize the changes to the front-end before you put them into effect. it uses bootstrap and has been coded in a way to avoid css conflict with other plugins. the plugin is responsive, allowing you to add tabs via shortcodes. icons can be selected for tab titles, and tab items can be dragged for easy sorting. it opens the first tab item by default and alerts you if any tab is being deleted at the back-end. more info / download squelch tabs squelch tabs adds accordions and tabs in both horizontal and vertical fashion to your website. accordions help to maximize the use of the space on the page and to give a professional look to your site. all widgets in this plugin are responsive except for the horizontal accordion widget. it packs in eight shortcodes and allows you to link the tab to any url. more info / download to wrap up a website layout is crucial for keeping a visitor on a website for longer periods of time. while menu plugins can help a visitor move around within a website, these tab plugins can help take a visitor directly to the content they want. if visitors cannot find what they want within two or three clicks, they are more likely to move away to other sites. these free plugins can help present tons of content in a structured fashion. let us know if they worked for you in the comments below. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. wordpress pluginswordpress tab plugins share this share tweet pin it share aigars silkalns frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. started to learn to code 2 years ago and now i am familiar with css/html/javascript (jquery) and php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. related posts top 30 seo plugins for wordpress 2020 a comprehensive list of the best seo wordpress plugins to supercharge your seo efforts and… 15 nifty bbpress plugin add-ons for wordpress forums 2019 all websites that are present on the internet have one common goal - they wish for… 31 best wordpress plugins for events, bookings, and appointments looking for a wordpress appointment plugin for your website? we have got you covered! here… 21 best free wordpress quiz plugins for 2020 need to run a quiz or survey on your website? these wordpress quiz plugins are… add a point of sale to wordpress and woocommerce with openpos if you want to add a point of sale dashboard to your store, then the… top 28 free and premium wordpress slider plugins 2020 if you haven't been living under a rock for the last two years, you'll know… this post has 0 comments leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * name * email * website comment disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: the best wordpress pdf viewer plugins 2020 next post: 21 best free wordpress live chat plugins for 2020 we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×