engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget sections gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video reviews login featured netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie 1h ago view capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 3h ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field 6h ago view 'flight simulator' developers explain its 'shared world' multiplayer share the skies with other players, plus real-life air traffic and weather. by r. lawler, 15h ago share view 'star wars jedi knight: jedi academy' is now available on switch and ps4 by m. moon, 19h ago in share view the latest in gaming 1h netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie ryan reynolds is in talks to play dirk the daring. by k. holt, 1h ago in share 3h 3h ago capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas the xbox one version of the beta is unaffected and starts today. by m. deangelis, 3h ago share view 5h 5h ago sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the measure should improve network stability as more isolated gamers go online. by m. deangelis, 5h ago share view a newsletter a day keeps the fomo at bay. just enter your email and we'll take care of the rest: subscribe now available on your smart speaker and wherever you get your podcasts: apple podcasts | spotify | google play | iheart radio 6h 6h ago the first ‘call of duty: warzone’ update aims to even the playing field custom loadouts should be harder to obtain, and rage quitters may cause fewer problems. by m. deangelis, 6h ago share view 10h 10h ago engadget podcast: how games (and animal crossing!) are keeping us sane we all deserve a virtual escape. by d. hardawar, 10h ago share view 13h 13h ago nvidia adds 'control' and other games to geforce now geforce now is promoting some games it's adding (instead of losing) for a change. by m. moon, 13h ago share view 15h 15h ago 'flight simulator' developers explain its 'shared world' multiplayer share the skies with other players, plus real-life air traffic and weather. by r. lawler, 15h ago share view 19h 19h ago 'star wars jedi knight: jedi academy' is now available on switch and ps4 the classic game has been updated with modern controls. by m. moon, 19h ago share view 03.26.20 03.26.20 the latest 'borderlands 3' dlc is an engagement party with guns an upcoming marriage is only part of the story. by j. fingas, 03.26.20 share view 03.26.20 03.26.20 apple arcade standout ‘assemble with care’ is now on steam and you can find capcom’s ‘shinsekai into the depths’ on switch. by c. fisher, 03.26.20 share view more stories sponsored links wcw's nintendo 64 legacy lives again, in mod form 03/26/20 share view gear facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets 1h ago view slack is working on a way to call microsoft teams users 2h ago view ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 2h ago view gaming netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie 1h ago view capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 3h ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view entertainment sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 6h ago view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes 6h ago view tomorrow the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists 7h ago view tesla's autopilot could soon detect traffic lights 7h ago view key vote on alphabet's smart neighborhood delayed over coronavirus 10h ago view about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr