engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget sections gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video reviews login featured roku is giving away 30 days of premium video 3m ago view facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets 1h ago view slack is working on a way to call microsoft teams users 2h ago view ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 2h ago view apple ipad pro 12.9 review: the rest is yet to come can trackpads, lidar and a (slightly) better gpu make this a laptop killer? posted 03.26.20 in share view alexa can tell you what to do if you think you have covid-19 by c. fisher, 8h ago in share view the latest in gear 3m roku is giving away 30 days of premium video epix, showtime and fitness channels are some of the freebies. by j. fingas, 3m ago in share 1h 1h ago facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets new facebook live features let you follow livestreams without a smartphone or facebook account. by k. bell, 1h ago share view 2h 2h ago slack is working on a way to call microsoft teams users no word yet when we can expect the feature to arrive, however. by i. bonifacic, 2h ago share view a newsletter a day keeps the fomo at bay. just enter your email and we'll take care of the rest: subscribe now available on your smart speaker and wherever you get your podcasts: apple podcasts | spotify | google play | iheart radio 2h 2h ago ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits the decision is a big win for gig economy workers. by i. bonifacic, 2h ago share view 4h 4h ago google's $800 million covid-19 relief effort includes 2 million face masks ad credits and small business support are also part of the strategy. by j. fingas, 4h ago share view 4h 4h ago the surveillance profiteers of covid-19 are here 1: collect data; 2: track virus; 3: ??? -- 4: profit by v. blue, 4h ago share view 4h 4h ago this week's best deals: sony headphones, surface pro 7 and more audio deals are abundant, including samsung galaxy buds for $80. by v. palladino, 4h ago share view 5h 5h ago food delivery apps, the pandemic and finding a new normal how to eat safely during a public health emergency. by m. giller, 5h ago share view 6h 6h ago apple unveils its own covid-19 screening app and website the more testing resources the better. by d. hardawar, 6h ago share view 8h 8h ago how well did the xperia 1’s super tall screen work for users? we dig into reader reviews to find out if a 21:9 aspect ratio is worth the hype. by k. naudus, 8h ago share view more stories sponsored links powerbeats review: better workout earbuds at a better price 03/27/20 share view gear facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets 1h ago view slack is working on a way to call microsoft teams users 2h ago view ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 2h ago view gaming netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie 1h ago view capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 3h ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view entertainment sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 6h ago view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes 6h ago view tomorrow the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists 7h ago view tesla's autopilot could soon detect traffic lights 7h ago view key vote on alphabet's smart neighborhood delayed over coronavirus 10h ago view about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr