engadget login home reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow audio video deals buyer's guide holiday gift guide fitness tech home entertainment personal security back to school outdoor tech parenting and tech camera guide best of ces phones laptops view all log in sign up engadget sections gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video reviews login featured sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 6h ago view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes 6h ago view staying social when you’re forced to isolate 9h ago view staying social when you’re forced to isolate with a little patience and flexibility, you can still host movie and game nights. by k. bell, 9h ago share view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes by c. fisher, 6h ago in share view the latest in entertainment 5h sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us the measure should improve network stability as more isolated gamers go online. by m. deangelis, 5h ago in share 6h 6h ago why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 'we decided that linden lab wanted to become cash-positive.’ by n. summers, 6h ago share view 6h 6h ago films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes other award shows could make similar changes to adjust for covid-19. by c. fisher, 6h ago share view a newsletter a day keeps the fomo at bay. just enter your email and we'll take care of the rest: subscribe now available on your smart speaker and wherever you get your podcasts: apple podcasts | spotify | google play | iheart radio 9h 9h ago staying social when you’re forced to isolate with a little patience and flexibility, you can still host movie and game nights. by k. bell, 9h ago share view 11h 11h ago the morning after: reviewing the ipad pro (2020) and huawei's new phone comes with a 10x optical zoom. by r. lawler, 11h ago share view 13h 13h ago google duo's group video limit rises to 12 people just at the right time the new limit is available immediately with no need to update the app. by s. dent, 13h ago share view 03.26.20 03.26.20 the morning after: weightlifting with a robotic exosuit and the ssd bug that can brick drives after 40,000 hours. by e. , 03.26.20 share view 03.26.20 03.26.20 time your handwashing with a do-it-yourself spotify soap dispenser you don't need to sing 'happy birthday' anymore. by r. england, 03.26.20 share view 03.25.20 03.25.20 comcast, verizon make some on-demand viewing free epix and showtime are part of the packages. by j. fingas, 03.25.20 share view 03.25.20 03.25.20 'picard' finally shows us how 'star trek’s' technology evolves soong-type androids, how we missed you. by k. naudus, 03.25.20 share view more stories sponsored links 'picard' finally shows us how 'star trek’s' technology evolves 03/25/20 share view gear facebook introduces new livestreaming features as demand skyrockets 1h ago view slack is working on a way to call microsoft teams users 2h ago view ny court rules postmates couriers are entitled to unemployment benefits 2h ago view gaming netflix is working on a live-action 'dragon's lair' movie 1h ago view capcom delays ‘resident evil resistance’ ps4 and steam betas 3h ago view sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view entertainment sony will limit playstation download speeds in the us 5h ago view why 'second life' developer linden lab gave up on its vr spin-off 6h ago view films won’t have to screen in theaters to qualify for this year's golden globes 6h ago view tomorrow the psychological impact of covid-19 isolation, as explained by scientists 7h ago view tesla's autopilot could soon detect traffic lights 7h ago view key vote on alphabet's smart neighborhood delayed over coronavirus 10h ago view about about engadget about our ads advertise brand kit buyers guide rss feed sections reviews gear gaming entertainment tomorrow the buyer's guide video podcasts deals contribute comment guidelines send us a tip! support international 繁體中文 简体中文 日本版 join our newsletter subscribe follow us © 2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. about verizon media reprints and permissions suggestions privacy policy (updated) terms of service (updated) trademarks advertise page 1 page 1 ear icon eye icon fill 23 text file vr