got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos news featured the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... tori spelling’s bank asked the sheriff’s office to collect on her massive debt again! home › tori spelling › tori spelling’s bank asked the sheriff’s office to collect on her massive debt again! the bank doesn’t care that there’s a global pandemic going on, they want what’s owed to them from tori spelling! as you’re likely aware, the beverly hills: 90210 alum and her husband dean mcdermott have been in financial trouble for quite some time. and now, their financial institution is trying to come after her to collect on their debt once again. related: tori spelling apologizes for daughter’s controversial ‘mcquisha’ dress-up pic to refresh your memory, back in january 2016, american express bank sued the pair for failing to pay a hefty credit card bill of $87,594.55. they previously requested an intervention from the los angeles sheriff’s office, asking to seize the debt in january 2019 and in august 2019. per documents obtained by the sun, the bank filed similar paperwork again on march 5, still trying to collect on a whopping $88,731.25. the couple was first ordered to pay the nearly $89k balance back in october 2016, which included $331.30 in accrued interest. it’s unclear if anything has come of this request just yet, but we’re sure this isn’t the end of their ongoing battle! unfortunately for the donna martin portrayer, this isn’t the only financial mess she’s found herself in. the 46-year-old is also dealing with cavalry spv i — a debt-buying company working on behalf of citibank — attempting to collect on a little over $5k which was ordered to be paid back in september 2018. despite dean publicly denying that his mother-in-law candy spelling pays for anything for them or their five kids, 13-year-old liam, 11-year-old stella, 8-year-old hattie, 7-year-old finn, and 3-year-old beau, an insider exclusively shared with us last month that this is not the case: “candy has always paid the educational expenses of her grandchildren from day one.” the source went on to reveal aaron spelling‘s widow “has also set up trust funds to pay for her grandchildren’s college tuition,” adding: “she has done a great deal for tori and dean and the kids over years and frequently provides financial assistance.” but the cash-strapped star isn’t just in trouble with credit card companies, she’s also dealing with tax issues, too! twice a year the state of california publishes its list of the top 500 tax delinquents, and in february, you can only imagine which couple was called out… the bh90210 lead and her husband owe enough to put them somewhere close to the middle of the personal income tax list. how much? according to the document, they owe a whopping $310,996.11. hey, at least she’s able to make fun of herself! we really hope that during this quarantine, they have the time to sit down and sort through the mud before it drags them down anymore!! [image via wenn/avalon.] related posts tori spelling apologizes for 8-year-old daughter’s controversial ‘mcquisha’ dress-up pic… johnny depp is not so innocent! tori spelling at war with her mom! prince harry done with family! and… | perez hilton exclusive! candy spelling ‘frequently’ provides financial assistance for tori & dean mcdermott after they claim she doesn’t pay for ‘anything’! do i owe tori spelling an apology? meghan & harry throw shade at the queen! jake paul vs zayn! and… | perez hilton click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 9:29am pdt share this categories business blitz legal matters tori spelling view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved