/ rob beschizza / 3:53 pm fri mar 27, 2020 tossed dallas follow us twitter / facebook / rss i don't know why i made this. share / tweet / comments dallas / humor / mistakes get the boing boing newsletter kfc manager complains company is ordering them to reopen lobbies during pandemic kfc closed its restaurants to all but drive-through customers and deliveries days ago. according to this video, however, the company is quietly ordering managers to keep lobbies open to serve walk-in takeout customers. i’ve come up with this plan to protect my employees because they’re trying to force us to open the lobby again. looks […] read the rest britain's sewers blocked by toilet paper alternatives britain’s ancient, fatberg-infested sewers are already choked to the grates thanks to irresponsible flushings during the coronavirus crisis. people running out of (or hoarding) toilet paper are instead using paper towels, kitchen napkins, wet wipes, newsprint and other materials that won’t break down. northumbrian water posted this handsome image of the random trash locals are […] read the rest tactical toilet paper wipe away the coronapocalypse in stealthy style with renova black toilet paper [amazon], your everyday carry for the virus crisis. with 140 “very soft and absorbent” 3-ply sheets per 100% virgin pulp roll, you’ll make short work of shite for the next few weeks — all without having to fight the army of doomshoppers raiding […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support