tpm site status blog tpm's tech team updates you on what's happening on our side of things. report bugs to siteissues@talkingpointsmemo.com. ongoing account issues some users are currently experiencing intermittent account issues, including being unable to access members-only content or seeing ads improperly. we are aware of the issue and working to resolve it as quickly as possible. 1 month ago, 1 note issues with our impeachment trial live blog the impeachment trial live blog hasn’t been updating properly for some readers. we’re aware of the issue and are working on a fix presently. 2 months ago intermittent front page downtime as some of you have noticed, tpm’s front page experienced some unplanned downtime this afternoon. things have since been returned to normal, and our tech team is working to resolve any remaining issues. thank you for your patience. 4 months ago comments are back! comments are now back online. with the new site updates, we are aware that the normal comments icon that displays under each headline is no longer appear, and our team is working on getting that fixed asap. in the meantime, the comments are still functioning, and each thread will still generate at the bottom of each story page. 8 months ago comments are temporarily unavailable on recently-posted stories due to a technical issue comments are disabled temporarily on recently-posted stories. our tech team is aware of the issue and working on a solution. we apologize for the inconvenience. 8 months ago comments are down for maintenance. we’re in the middle of a tech update. as a side-effect, you may be unable to access comments for the next few hours. we appreciate your patience. 9 months ago and they’re back! comments are restored, you may return to your regularly scheduled posting. 10 months ago comments are temporarily unavailable on recently-posted stories due to a technical issue comments are disabled temporarily on recently-posted stories. our tech team is aware of the issue and working on a solution. we apologize for the inconvenience. 10 months ago on-article comments have been restored. embedded comments are back after an earlier outage. 10 months ago comments are temporarily down for some stories published this morning (05/22) due to some technical difficulty comments aren’t currently available for some stories published this morning. our tech team is aware of the issue and is working to resolve it. we apologize for the inconvenience and thank you for your understanding. 10 months ago page 1 of 6 older tpm site status blog © 2011–2020 basic by cubthemes