the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop clips hugh jackman and allison janney get a bad education in new trailer you may also like film america eased into the ’60s with the bedroom comedies of doris day and rock hudson caroline siedetoday 6:00am games why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? sam barsantitoday 12:00am news finally, good news: the extremely stylish new lupin iii movie will get a u.s. release sam barsantiyesterday 5:45pm more from g/o media read on the truth of coronavirus might be worse than the conspiracy theories read on maybe sony will finally fulfill one of playstation's oldest promises read on what you need to know about your federal government relief check [updated] read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe danette chavez today 12:35pm • filed to:clips clipstrailerbad educationhugh jackmanallison janney 1 save the educators and administrators in cory finley’s bad education aren’t actually bad at their jobs—a few of them just serve as bad examples for students in the long island school district. as school superintendent frank tassone, hugh jackman has a lesson plan for embezzling and for keeping his district in top academic standing. tassone has a more than willing accomplice in pam gluckin, played with typical wiliness by allison janney. but all it takes for their misappropriation to be exposed is the tenacity of one perceptive teen (geraldine viswanathan, continuing to make great choices in projects). this new trailer focuses on frank and pam’s closeness, which developed before or after they started funneling hundreds of thousands of dollars from the school budget into their own pockets. in real life, tassone was a dedicated school official, though that didn’t keep him from diverting resources. screenwriter mike makowsky, who was a student at one of the schools tassone oversaw, offers a nuanced characterization of tassone, which is made all the more gripping by jackman’s performance. as our own a.a. dowd noted after seeing bad education at the toronto international film festival last year, tassone is a “pathological compartmentalizer, somehow capable of squaring his genuine, inspiring commitment as an educator with his vanity and secretly pursued self-interests.” advertisement hbo picked up the rights to bad education in 2019, and will be premiering the dark comedy on april 25. the television academy recently had to push the dates on for your consideration campaigning for the emmys, but whenever it kicks off, you can expect janney and especially jackman to be a part of the conversation. danette chavez posts tv editor share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club nyu tisch dean replies to pleas for tuition refunds with bizarre video of her dancing to r.e.m. we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? share tweet