new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search transcripts transcript: episode 63: umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr bakery march 1, 2020 ny launch pod: welcome to the new york launch pod the new york press club award winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to umber ahmad, founder of mah-ze-dahr the […] more transcript: how you doin’? vol 7: laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur february 1, 2020 hal coopersmith: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to laura schubert and lillian tung, co-founders of fur. at […] more transcript: episode 62: lena imamura and sas simon, co-founders of name glo january 1, 2020 nylp: so what’s interesting about you guys is you didn’t set up to start a neon company. it just kind of happened. sas: yes, definitely. it was something that happened sort of by chance and snowballed a little bit. nylp: what does that mean? sas: well, the story was that i wanted a neon for […] more transcript: episode 61: matt bennett, founder of dreams aren’t this good december 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we speak to matt bennett, the founder of dreams aren’t this good, […] more transcript: episode 60: lee hoffman, co-founder of heat watch november 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod the new york press club award-winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and it’s getting colder out there. new yorkers know that summer is over and you might […] more transcript: episode 59: heidi hertel, founder and gabriel schlumberger, ceo of fitz frames october 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast, highlighting the most interesting new startups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we speak to heidi hertel and gabriel schlumberger, co-founders of fitz. and fitz […] more transcript: episode 58: aaron luo and carmen chen wu, co-founders of caraa september 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod the new york press club award winning podcast highlighting the most interesting new york startups, businesses and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to aaron luo and carmen chen wu […] more transcript: how you doin’? vol 6: brian berger, co-founder of mack weldon august 15, 2019 nylp: so, we first spoke to you in 2017 it seems like your business has grown a lot. what’s changed? brian: more people, more problems. nylp: more people, more problems. that means growth. brian: yep, new products. we’ve diversified the product offering. that’s been really exciting. customers have expressed that they want to see more from us. […] more transcript: episode 57: carrie o’brien & craig o’brien, co-founders of sunswell august 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award-winning podcast, highlighting new startups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk to carrie and craig o’brien, husband and wife and co-founders of sunswell, a […] more transcript: episode 56: hannah weitzer & alli finn, co-founders of seachange collective august 1, 2019 nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, the new york press club award winning podcast highlighting startups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area. i’m your host and new york attorney hal coopersmith and in this episode we talk all about social justice with hannah weitzer and alli finn, the co-founders of seachange […] more 1 2 3 4 5 >» 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top