menu home about frequently asked questions helpful free resources contact blog happiness & fun love & relationships meaning & passion mindfulness & peace change & challenges letting go healthy habits work fulfillment tiny wisdom quotes fun & inspiring forums topics register advertise submission guidelines books & things login transition out of a deep depression home→forums→tough times→transition out of a deep depression new reply this topic contains 2 replies, has 3 voices, and was last updated by peter 3 days, 2 hours ago. viewing 3 posts - 1 through 3 (of 3 total) author posts march 23, 2020 at 9:02 pm #344830 katie participant i have always had depression but it was something that i could manage and often hide below the surface. last year i moved abroad to work as an english teaching assistant thinking it would be the adventure of a lifetime. unfortunately, it proved to be quite the opposite and i found myself in the deepest depression i had ever been in. i pretty much completely isolated myself from all of my friends and stopped responding to their text messages. i didn’t care about my physical health or looks. i should have moved back home sooner, but i didn’t want to feel like i gave up and i wanted to show that i could see my work contract out. i ended up quitting halfway through my program but still carried a lot of the depression i had felt back home. now i am in a place where i so strongly want to move out of this depression but i feel like i am not sure who i am anymore or what value i have. it’s hard to reach out to friends because i feel like i have hurt so many of them and the ones i do talk to, i worry about how much i might have changed since they last knew me when i didn’t have the depression. if anyone has any words of advice for how to move out of depression and how to reestablish yourself as the person you were before i would love to read it! thank you for your time. march 24, 2020 at 9:32 am #345076 anita participant dear katie: you shared that you “always had depression.. often hide it below the surface”. a year ago you moved abroad hoping to have “the adventure of a lifetime” abroad, but found yourself instead in “the deepest depression i had ever been in”, isolated, careless about your physical health and looks. you then quit halfway through the job abroad and moved back home. my input: the depression you always had, you were not born with it. your depression was formed during your childhood because of the life circumstances of your childhood. for whatever reasons, your parent or parents left you alone for too long, emotionally if not physically. your experience of being home alone for too long, alone with fear, alone with sadness, alone with desire to do this or that, but no one to show you the way… that experience of childhood became your experience anywhere you are, as an adult. i am guessing you felt not so bad at home before the travel abroad because you were adjusted best possible to your home of origin, made the best out of a bad situation. when you moved abroad, you were in a new situation for which you were not adjusted, and therefore your depression worsened. if you let me know what you think of what i wrote so far, we can communicate further. anita march 24, 2020 at 10:53 am #345090 peter participant hi katie now i am in a place where i so strongly want to move out of this depression but i feel like i am not sure who i am anymore the thought that came to my mind when i read that was a question i’ve asked myself when feeling/thinking the same way. who would i be without this depression? the feeling being that in some perverse way i had attached my senses of self to this experience of depression. the truth being that depression provided a kind of safety net, even a odd comfort, a excuse to remain as i was/am.. my experience of depression has always been rooted in existential angst. unskillful dwelling on meaning, purpose, loneliness. eventually i suspect their is a tipping point where the body reacts and depression becomes chemical. reading your post its not clear where you are on the scale. a bit of both perhaps, each feeding the other? have you ever talked to someone about your depression? medication could help and give you the space to deal with the question of who you are. i wish you all the best… you are not your depression, you experience depression… author posts viewing 3 posts - 1 through 3 (of 3 total) you must be logged in to reply to this topic. please log in or register. disclaimer this site is not intended to provide and does not constitute medical, legal, or other professional advice. the content on tiny buddha is designed to support, not replace, medical or psychiatric treatment. please seek professional care if you believe you may have a condition. before using the site, please read our privacy policy and terms of use. click to opt-out of google analytics tracking. who runs tiny buddha? though i run this site, it is not mine. it's ours. it's not about me. it's about us. your stories and your wisdom are just as meaningful as mine. click here to read more. get more tiny buddha twitter facebook youtube rss feed credits & copyright hosting by presslabs. design by joshua denney. copyright © 2019 tiny buddha, llc think web strategy back to top