new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area podcasts transcripts about news contact search transcript: episode 10: doug hayes, founder of junto health october 1, 2015 by hal coopersmith in transcripts tags: health, healthcare, junto health nylp: welcome to the new york launch pod, a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area. i’m hal coopersmith, and in this episode, we’re going to be talking about health. if you’re thinking, “you talked about health previously,” you’re right. i’m very excited because our guest on this episode is junto health. they are a spin-off from one of our first guests, blueprint health. stepping out onto the launch pod, we have doug hayes, the ceo of junto health. welcome to podcast, doug. doug: hi hal. thanks so much for having me. nylp: so, what is junto health? doug: junto health is a consortium of large health care stakeholders in hospitals, pharmaceutical companies, insurance companies and technology companies who have taken a different approach to finding new innovation coming out of the tech sector. we work with large stakeholders who have problems or challenges or in their day-to-day operations. a lot of this is coming from some of the regulatory changes in the ecosystem. and we help find alignment when they have those challenges and either work together with peer institutions to find tech solutions for those problems, or we take what they’re looking for and go out into the early stage part of the market and find start-ups that can help solve those problems. nylp: so, what does that mean in layman’s terms? doug: in layman’s terms, we help hospitals, insurance companies and pharmaceutical companies connect with start-ups that can solve the problems that they’re currently facing in their business. nylp: and what are those problems. doug: so, there is a myriad of them. but some things that folks are struggling with now is a lot of the top down policy changes that are coming both at the state and the federal level are overall good for the consumer and great for the patient, but it creates a challenge for large health systems and insurance companies, which weren’t necessarily built for that regulatory landscape. that means that we have to use technology as a sector to help these organizations not only comply with regulations, but drive more value and have better care for patients themselves. nylp: so, what are some of the problems that these organizations are facing in part of the new regulations? doug: globally, the trend is to take on more risk. so, as a health care provider, it is better – if you want to move into preventative medicine, if you actually want to contain risk and keep people well rather than simply treating sick people, you need to use some pieces of technology to make sure that you contain that risk and that you can influence that patient’s overall wellness; you can influence their behavior. so, things as simple as keeping patients engaged in their health, or educating patients, or helping patients remember to take their medications, keeping them adherent. these are all changes that the current health system wasn’t necessarily built to handle, and they’re thriving sectors of the early stage health tech landscape. nylp: and these changes are coming from the affordable care act? doug: a lot of these changes are coming from the aca, the high tech act. changes are coming down from the state and the federal level. the visual that we always talk about is that we’re asking large, traditional organizations to change very quickly, and they weren’t necessarily built to do that. so, the visual that makes a lot of sense to us is a cruise liner in a bay that’s asked to turn around and exit the bay. it requires a number of tugboats to move that large, hulking ship. you can think of the current hospitals as the cruise liner and the start-ups today are helping that large organization be more nimble, and they’re the tugboats. nylp: do hospitals need to change by start-ups? why are start-ups so essential? doug: startups are essential because they’re more nimble, flexible, and can attack parts of the market that are financially rewarding to small companies but might not check the box for a large tech vendor, for instance. that means that they can get a little bit more creative more patient centric, especially with the new wave of health tech entrepreneurs out there, they’re coming up with a lot of creative solutions to the challenges that are faced by large health systems. so, a great example is new york’s own zocdoc, which some years ago actually started booking appointments online. this was a novel concept at the time and now it seems relatively standardized. but that is an example of a technology platform that’s helping patients connect with the care that they need, and offer providers, the doctors themselves, a way of getting more patient flow and actually running their business in a more efficient manner. nylp: one of the things matthew farkash, who’s the co-founder of blueprint health who you worked with, talked about selling in the health care environment is very unique because you’re dealing with enterprises. and as you talked about, they’re cruise ships. so, how can start-ups work with these big enterprises? doug: it’s challenging. it’s challenging. when i was running the accelerated program at blueprint health, a lot of what we did was help early stage companies sell into these large organizations. in a lot of ways, it takes a village. so, these are small companies. that makes them nimble, but it also makes them risky. it makes it difficult to integrate at the tech level. so, a lot of the innovations coming from the start-up universe are better if they can access the data coming out of the electronic health record, and that can be challenging. it can also be difficult to sell into a hospital because they’re set up and the decision making structure is often conservative and more committee based. that makes sense when they’re responsible for caring for patients, giving people healthy, and making sure that any technology you put in front of patients has been tested and vetted. so, it creates this chicken and egg problem for good health tech start-ups because they need to pilot to prove that their product or service can work and actually be valuable for the patient or the hospital and at the same time the hospital is not necessarily incentivized to work with a risky solution that might not deliver the benefits that they’re looking for. so, it’s an inherently conservative organization as it should be and because of that, the procurement, or the adoption of new technology is very difficult. nylp: we don’t want our hospitals taking too much risk. doug: not too much risk on the tech side. so, they should be working with technology that has been piloted and vetted. that is a challenge for early stage companies that are looking for a large provider to, in some ways, take a risk and prove that their platform can actually perform. once they have that, it can make those sales conversations a little bit better. but that’s just on the tech side. there’s an entirely different ball of wax to focus on which is understanding where your service, as a founder, where your service or product fits in with the business model of the hospital today, and tomorrow, or the proverbial tomorrow. so, because of these regulatory changes that are coming down, a lot of the health systems will have fundamentally different business models in five, ten years. so, you need, as a founder today, to both solve today’s pain point, but also provide an opportunity for that hospital or that health system to use your service tomorrow when they’re taking more risk, when they might move to a bundled payment system. all these things are moving down the regulatory pathway. nylp: what do you mean by bundled payments? doug: bundled payments are part of the overall shift away from fee for service and towards fee for value. so, hospitals and doctors are moving towards a place where they’re rewarded financially for keeping us well, rather than just treating us when we’re not well. nylp: so, who are your members? doug: so, junto health has 17 members. those include a lot of the name brand hospitals and health systems here in new york like new york presbyterian and north shore lij. it also includes insurance companies like aetna and emblem health. we have pharmaceutical companies like astrazeneca and boehringer ingelheim and a number of other constituencies, like technology providers like hp, philips and samsung. nylp: how did you get all those institutions to be members? doug: a thousand conversations. but this model was built at blueprint health while i was running the accelerator and it was really to meet a need that i saw in the market. when i was working with early stage health tech companies, helping them refine their model and then make sales into these large organizations, a lot of that conversation needs to be informed by what the large organizations themselves are looking for. so, part of my day-to-day was working with these large hospitals and insurance companies. it became clear to me that the way that they are engaging with early stage technology and start-ups generally could be improved. so, they were eager to not only affiliate with innovation and sponsor innovation conferences and workshops and accelerators, but they also wanted to engage meaningfully with the founders themselves. they wanted to kick the tires on the new technology. and if their risk tolerance was increasing, so they really wanted to roll up their sleeves and work with these early stage companies. at the same time, there was not a strong culture of knowledge sharing among peer institutions, a lot of times because they felt like there were in competitive stances with one another. so, i found myself having very similar conversations with innovation leaders from hospitals, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies, technology companies, all of whom wanted to learn about the early stage ecosystem and meet prospective partners but none of whom were talking to each other. so, it occurred to us that maybe we should put all of these people in the same room and see what happens. we started doing it. we prototyped a few meetings like that and we found that we were really hitting a nerve, and this was really meeting a need. so, members of the collective, which is what it was called at that point, joined because they wanted to find good, vetted start-ups in a more rational way, and they also wanted to partner with peer institutions to either go look for technology, or just to learn from one another to improve their own approach to innovation and technology. nylp: so what’s the goal of junto health? doug: the goal of junto health is to help large organizations who have problems in health care connect with the solutions that can actually meet those problems. so, the goal of junto health is to help large stakeholders like hospitals and insurance companies, the organizations that care for us and our family members as patients, find the innovative solutions that they need to deliver better care. nylp: how are you going to go about doing that? doug: so, first, we start with the problems or we start with the demand side. me and my team work really closely with the innovation leaders from the membership and we learn what their priorities are, what their pain points are, what’s keeping them up at night, where they can use some help. also, where they see an opportunity. we aggregate all of those and find the alignment between different types of stakeholders. so, one of our theses is in this era of convergence, there is an opportunity to work with peer institutions like hospitals, pharmaceutical companies and insurance companies working together on a problem that might be solved with an early stage start-up. so, first we focus on the demand side. we focus on what their challenges are, what their pain points are. we then align members where we see organic alignment. then we go out into the emerging technology landscape to see if we can find start-ups that might meet that need or co-development partners with whom we can build a solution. we may even be able to connect members within junto itself who can build a better version or a next generation product that might not exist. nylp: what are some of the hospitals identifying as some of their pain points? and what’s keeping them up at night? doug: the list is long. hospitals are being asked to change fairly dramatically in a very short period of time and looking to technology to help them to do that. some of the clichés… nylp: they’re being asked to change to perform more health maintenance? doug: exactly. the shift towards value is occurring right now. within five or ten years, there will be a dramatically different reality in the way that a health care organization runs. that means that they need help engaging their patients, making sure that their patients have the education they need to take care of themselves, to make sure that their patients are keeping themselves healthy and have the ability to remain adhered to their medication protocols, to find the resources that they need, and to make health care generally more consumer friendly. it’s something that we might take for granted or not really acknowledge all that much, but health care is not really built for the consumer: it’s never been built for the consumer. that’s changing right now, in part because of the top down regulatory shifts, but also because of bottom up and fairly unstoppable disruption occurring in the tech sector. as the u.s. and really people across the world are looking for more consumer oriented health care, there are a lot of gaps to fill in that system. so, start-ups have a golden age of opportunities in front of them because large systems, large existing players need to change dramatically and can’t find all the solutions that they need in-house, so they need to go outside for innovation. and consumers or patients have a higher threshold of what they want out of their health care experience. so, i think smart founders that understand both the tech and the policy landscape have an enormous amount of opportunities in front of them. nylp: what does the future of a hospital look like? doug: very different from the current model of hospitals. i think in five or ten years, we will almost forget what the existing hospital systems felt like on a day-to-day basis. getting the point of care outside of emergency rooms and hospitals generally will lower the overall cost of care. being more consumer friendly and actually treating patients as the consumers that we are will make the actual experience better for patients. so, things like mobile interaction with your doctor, being able to text your doctor, being able to use your phone to change your behavior or monitor your health in a way that you may not be interested in doing yourself. the passive ways of monitoring our health and wellness plus connecting that data back into the clinical setting, i think, will make all health systems more aware, it will make patients – they’ll be more in the driver’s seat of their own health, and the overall cost should be lower. nylp: you mentioned that making health care more consumer friendly is an important pain point right now. how can junto health help these hospitals make health care more consumer friendly? doug: so, we work with our provider partners, our provider members. and when they want to work on a project path that is innovative, it’s outside the box, it’s messy and it is risky, involving the computerization of health care, we can find a climate with other members and actually help them form small teams called “working groups” to put their heads together, focus on what they want to build or what they want to find, and then go out in the world and find that solution. so, that can be a hospital, an insurance company that are both looking for remote monitoring apps, or patient adherence apps. things that are better for the consumer experience, they’re more patient friendly, but they’re not within the core competency of insurance companies or hospitals. so, those two stakeholders, they both have an incentive to find the next generation of mobile friendly adherence solutions, for instance. they could each go out into the world of 5,000 health tech start-ups and try to find the one or two that’s right for them. or they can put their heads together, figure out what they need and amplify, extend what their search is able to yield. nylp: once you have those two stakeholders, they’re on the search. how do they find what they need? doug: we work with our members to find out, (a) what their priorities are or pain points, what they’re trying to solve, and then what stage company they’re looking for, what type of company they’re looking for, what integration is needed. there’s a lot of predictable friction in the procurement process for it and we remove a lot of that by working with a large organizations first by priming that demand and making sure that all the boxes are checked and then using our experience and our network in the early stage to go out and find the right start-up at the right time to make that introduction. this is a big point to emphasize here: selling into these organizations can be disastrous for early stage founders. you can have a very effective product. it could work. it could be very meaningful for patients. but if you don’t have any cash in the bank and you haven’t been funded yet and you haven’t made a sale, a six month or twelve month long sales cycle into a hospital, that’s tough. so, there are a lot of great pieces of technology that are never really actualized because of that procurement process and the way that technology is diffused into the ecosystem. so, if we can improve that procurement process, and actually prime the demand side and vet the early stage, we can make a much more efficient conversation between the large organization and the small organization. you know, if you talk to founders as you do, long sales cycles and unpredictable sales cycles are killers at the early stage. if we can remove that, we’re serving the founders, we’re serving the early stage companies and we’re serving the large organizations who have used junto health and our platform to filter the noise and find the companies that are right for them. nylp: why does it take six to twelve months on a sales cycle for health care providers? doug: the legacy procurement process. i won’t get into the nuts and bolts of it, but it’s because you want a conservative, slow-moving procurement process when you’re buying things like cat scan machines and large multi-million dollar devices. that’s different with software. the procurement process and the channels of getting into these health systems hasn’t necessarily evolved. not to paint it with a big brush, there are some fantastic examples of health systems that are finding good innovation, that have the streamlined the way that start-ups can work with them and have actually set up either fast-track pilot processes or digital sandboxes for founders to come and develop solutions in. that’s going to be the way of the future, that platform approach and being a bit more open. unfortunately, the general health care system is not there yet. nylp: what would you say to someone who says we’ve had a six to twelve month procurement process for cat scans and that works perfectly great and we have to be very careful with whatever we do with health, because people’s lives are at stake. why shouldn’t that be with software? doug: i think it’s a difference in kind. whenever you’re talking about innovation, you’re talking about something that’s inherently risky. i’d encourage those organizations that are thinking about early stage companies to really think about risk mitigation. how can they carve out a sandbox to test new products and contain the risk of a product not working, for instance. if they’re able to do that, i think going out and finding innovation and then running it through a pilot very quickly within a sandbox like that can make a hospital system much more nimble, can help them find good technology, and it removes the risk of investing in all of your hospitals with a certain start-up that isn’t going to be around in a year. nylp: so, once you’ve identified the problem, what does the day-to-day for junto look like? doug: yeah, that’s a good question and i’ll point out that the majority of work that we do at junto health happens after the idea. so, i think there are a lot of places where folks can find new, innovative ideas. there aren’t a lot of places where they can come and get to work and help build and actualize those ideas. that’s one of the challenges that we’re helping to solve. so, after we identify need among our stakeholders, we organize and facilitate a working group. so, that means we get an insurance company, a pharma company, and a hospital system to basically form a team, a nimble team, and build a project plan for them. we actually do the active project management. we might build a road map that is six months, that is eight months, that is 12 months, and facilitate and lead the development for that working group. sometimes, oftentimes, it starts with a conceptually simple exercise, where we talk to our members and figure out what the challenge is today, what the pain points are today and what the current solution set looks like today. and, suspending disbelief, what would that ideal solution look like tomorrow? after we do that, we can identify a set of steps that we’ll have to bake into the roadmap for the working group that will help us get to that imagined ideal state. then we launch the project with the formal charter, sign the ip agreements and actively get these people working together. so, there’s a substantial amount of behavior change that we had to build within the membership. but now we’ve got working groups that are meeting every week, every two weeks, having calls, sharing data back and forth, actively building new pieces of technology. and part of the thesis of junto health is coming up with ideas and interesting, potential innovation is great but the real work is done after the idea. our model is built so that members can join these small working groups and run these disciplined experiments, we call them, without paying that much for each one. so, they’re able to lower the cost of participation in any sort of innovation search and improve roi, and that allows them to make more tiny bets across their organization and find innovation that they need. nylp: so, junto is essentially leading these groups. doug: exactly. that’s really why bringing in spg and the folks at sachs policy group made all the sense in the world because we’re able to now take analysis of the policy landscape in things that are coming down the pike from the policy world and help our members find the technology or build the technology that they’re going to need to comply with those regulations. so, we’re able to find that strategic insight and combine it with a tactical, boots on the ground, blue collar approach to actually making innovation work, rather than just thinking about innovation and moving on to the next idea. nylp: what are the responsibilities for your employees? doug: so, our employees do a mix of different things, but a lot of the work is member facing and learning what they need, how we can either facilitate their needs within a working group structure or in another way. so, something that we do very frequently, on the sidelines of working groups with our members, is run a process of curated meetings. so, those are one-on-one meetings with vetted start-ups and one member around a targeted pain point. we also host co-development meetings and on a quarterly basis are bringing all the members together. part of our approach here is based on the idea that real innovation and collaboration requires real human relationships. so, our members meet every three months to share knowledge about what they’re working on within their working groups, to share knowledge about what they’re cooking in their own organizations, and to keep the momentum and the continuity going within our community. nylp: what’s happening in between those meetings? doug: so, in between all those meetings is where the work is done. so, the summits are a place to convene, share knowledge, network, meet more people, connect with some start-ups that are there and in between those summits, the members are really heads down working in their project teams. that means coming to meetings, joining calls, vetting technologies, building technologies, pulling in relevant colleagues into their working group roadmap. these working groups are really large commitments for the members who make them, but because we’re sharing costs, we’re sharing time and resources; they’re able to commit to more of these innovation experiments and actually find good solutions for the problems that they have. nylp: are there any organizations doing something similar to what you’re doing? doug: yeah, there are some great models in shared research, but not many that i’m aware of in digital health. organizations like tno team know and imec and m2.2 tool the shared research program approach to innovation is nothing that we created. however, applying it to digital health in the early stage health tech ecosystem is new. i think that right now, the industry is primed for a new way of finding innovation and at the same time, the disruption that’s coming from the seed stage, the early stage of start-ups is not going to stop any time soon. so, there needs to be a better approach, or a better layer, in between large organizations that have the problems and the folks that are building solutions and trying to connect with those large organizations. nylp: how big is your company now? doug: we have 6 people full-time and 7 members. we expect to pull in a number of new members over the next couple of months. nylp: who from these health care providers are participating in junto health? are these c-suite executives? who are they? doug: there’s a range. in order to be affective, we need buy-in and commitment from the top. so, a lot of the c-suite contend and work with the working groups. but we also need the internal colleagues from these innovation leaders. this is something that i point out as a real challenge of innovation leaders, generally, is that they are often sitting at a seat that has been newly created. they need to work across a matrix and building that political capital and driving that innovation into their organizations can be very challenging because of the procurement process and some of the things that we’ve discussed. so, we’ve seen members actually use their position within the junto as a way of attracting colleagues and developing internal champions by getting them to the table earlier and by getting their input earlier in the innovation process so that they can work with the chair of cardiology, for instance, and learn about what he or she is looking for and then go to junto, use our open innovation platform to find a potential start-up or technology that could meet that need. because they’re able to do that, they’re seeing – and we’re actually seeing – a massive increase in the number of people that are joining and calls that are coming into our summits. it’s because the liaisons or the champions from these organizations are pulling in more and more of their colleagues. nylp: so, you’ve mentioned shared innovation a lot. some of your members are seemingly competitors, directly or indirectly: hospitals, health care providers, other pharmaceutical companies. in terms of open innovation, how do you ensure that everyone is sharing notes or is being as open as possible? doug: yeah, that’s a good question. the important thing to recognize is that open-innovation works because you’re sharing risk. what that means is that as a hospital or pharmaceutical company, i’m taking the problems that i want into junto. i’m not taking all my problems, i’m not taking everything on my road map, everything that i’m going to compete with. i’m not putting that into junto. but junto represents a place to collaborate pre-competitively. so, this is based on the principles of shared research programs that come out of high-end r&d, which is material science and compounds, like making drugs for instance. what they’ve seen is that anytime you have a sector that is rapidly evolving and converging through technological innovation, like health care is right now, they’ve seen that you could go through a typical maturation process. all the stakeholders in that sector spend 100 out of 100 dollars of their r&d budget on siloed r&d, siloed research. they don’t really talk to many folks in the ecosystem and they figure out what they need to build and what they can buy to build that through a process of sales meetings, for instance. what they found is starting particularly in northern europe, is that rather than take that approach, you can go to the players, the stakeholders in a sector and say, “spend 90 out of 100 dollars on your own proprietary research and throw the remaining $10 into a pot. do that with all the relevant stakeholders and use that pot of money, conducted at arm’s length, to do the research and to share knowledge around the commoditized, or the utilized technology. so, they found that sectors that have adopted this approach and have seen evolution sometimes twice as fast as a traditional r&d model. and this model, i’m familiar with because my brother is a scientist in the netherlands. he runs these for the additive manufacturing industry. the amount of innovation that they’ve been able to drive to their members and their clients has been outstanding. the model works. they’ve been doing it for 15, 20 years in other countries. they’ve been doing it in this country, just in other sectors. no one has really approached this within digital health. we are the first shared research program for digital health. we think that this model long term will be a winning formula because you don’t have to take all of your innovative strategy and all of your competitive ideas into junto. you take what you need. by combining with and aligning with the other name brand partners, you’re able to do more and to get their faster. nylp: where in the shared research model do some of these companies break off and then innovate and do their own competitive items? doug: typically within a shared research program, there’s some new ip, or new technology, which is developed and that will serve as a platform or a backbone to the technology. off of that, then there can be a ton of competitive products built. nylp: how much does it cost for members to be a part of junto health. doug: pricing is not currently public, but part of our thesis of junto is that innovation doesn’t have to be expensive. so, were supported by membership dues and i think most people would find that our price of admission is a fraction of what a hackathon cost. part of what we’re proving here is that using a shared research approach, we can actually do more with lower costs and improve the roi for all of our members. nylp: are you looking to get more members? doug: yes, we are always looking for more members. the goal of junto is not to grow the overall size of the consortium as big as we care. we’re really looking for members who understand the model, who are ready to collaborate with peers, and who see the value in putting their heads together in the shared research approach to find a new technology. so, it’s about finding the right partners. nylp: i saw that one of your members – which is interesting for us, as the new york launch pod – is the new york city economic development corporation. what’s their involvement? doug: the edc we consider fellow travelers. so they do a lot of work across the city particularly in health tech. they run programs like pilot health tech, which helps connect large hospitals with emerging technology companies. we’ve worked with them in a number of different capacities when i was at blueprint health. we think we’re pushing the same rock up the same hill and because of that alignment, we were able to join forces, get them involved in what we’re doing, and we’re actively working specifically with the provider partners on developing a new and streamlined way of evaluating good technology and procuring it in a very short period of time. nylp: what does success for junto health look like? doug: when we think about success, we want to be a platform in which our members are able to exchange knowledge very, very freely and to find more opportunities than they could doing their own thing. so, success to us comes down to the amount of working groups that we can launch, the amount of new collaborations we’re able to create within the members, the amount of start-ups that we’re able to pull into the memberships and actually connect to large organizations when the time is right. we think much more – if you think about kpi’s – we think much more about kpi’s inside the membership than a sales number or a revenue target. the long term bet is that if we can get these name brand organizations to actually work together to find new technology or build new technology, that there will be many opportunities for our members and for junto itself down the line. nylp: what is your background? doug: so, i grew up in a rural part of pennsylvania. i went to school up in new hampshire, and came out of dartmouth into the investment world. i quickly realized that technology was going to be the defining element of the 21st century, as i think a lot of people did and i wanted to get involved in the two different sectors that i cared the most about: education and health. so, i’ve spent some time in education technology, particularly with a company called 2u, which pioneered the school as a service model and at health care technology at blueprint health and now at junto health. i’ve advised a number of different start-ups personally in health care and technology and education technology and i think i’ll be in the start-up eco-system for a while. nylp: how did you come up with the name junto health? doug: so, junto health is an allusion to an organization that was a real historical group. it was founded by benjamin franklin in philadelphia. he recognized that there was this new dynamic occurring in the colonies, in which budding entrepreneurs and tradesmen were growing their businesses in ways that they couldn’t over in europe, but there was a ceiling at which they didn’t benefit from being a part of the noble class. so, they didn’t have access to the same knowledge networks, to the capital networks to really grow their business. so, he recognized that by connecting a bunch of these entrepreneurs together, and forming a group based on the concept of mutual improvement, that they might all get to where they were going a little bit faster. so, they started meeting every week at a bar in philadelphia and sharing information that would benefit the group. so, they would learn about what business practices were leading to success. they would learn about anyone who lost their business and why he may have lost his business. by sharing knowledge amongst a close group of individuals, they were able to create a very innovative crucible that created a lot of the firsts in the colonies; so the first concept of the insurance company, the fire company, lending library, the blueprint for what was the first public hospital and the university of pennsylvania. franklin used junto, the model and the individuals themselves to establish many of the firsts in the colonies that are often described. nylp: how do people find out more about junto health? doug: you can check us out online at juntohealth.org. that’s j-u-n-t-o health.org. and you can also follow us @juntohealth. nylp: well, doug hayes, we really learned a lot about the future of health care and health start-ups. it seems like you’re doing a lot of exciting things. thank you for stepping onto the new york launch pod and sharing our time with us. doug: thanks again for having me. nylp: if you want to learn more about the new york launch pod, you can visit nylaunchpod.com or follow us on social media @nylaunchpod. share this: — « episode 10: doug hayes, founder of junto health » episode 11: mike rothman, co-founder of fatherly 2016 new york press club winner for best podcast subscribe are we still friends? new york launch pod: a podcast highlighting new start-ups, businesses, and openings in the new york city area (c) bull path media inc. ↑ back to top