0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 no equivalentjudy bolton-fasmanjune 29, 2017cubaarchives 3 trastienda no equivalentjudy bolton-fasmanjune 29, 2017cubaarchives 3 trastienda spanish, noun. a storage room in the back of a business by judy bolton-fasman each person has a trastienda within them: a place my cuban mother described whereby secrets thrill the day and deepen the night. no one's trastiendas were more airtight than my father's. my mother never knew my father was a spy in latin america during the 1950s. that secret was almost assuredly in the grave with him until i did some research discovering his life in espionage. that discovery was like an infinite hall of reflections – trastiendas upon trastiendas as far as the eye could see. if my father dared to confess his trastiendas, he would do so in a letter. email was in the offing and my father hated to talk on the phone. one summer when i lived in new york city, my father, back in our hometown of hartford, connecticut, began to write me letters. one of the letters arrived in a thick and heavily taped envelope, indicating this was beyond the usual old-fashioned tips for getting over boys who had wronged me, and stories of my mother’s epic temper tantrums in which she railed that he was a feeble, old man. i thought about my father’s growing desperation to leave my mother. i wondered if this was the letter in which he would say he had asked her for a divorce. let us write to you! every week, get a letter from us in your inbox. email address write me thank you! or perhaps the letter was connected to his health, as it had begun to deteriorate that summer. i first noticed something was wrong with his handwriting; his tall, stalwart letters once so commanding on the page had become crabbed and crowded. “get off my back,” he said, waving off anyone who pointed out his symptoms. the same day i received the letter, my father left a message on my answering machine, ordering me to burn it. this strange, unexpected order frightened me, convincing me that i did not want to know what was in that letter. his voice was firm, but i could hear the underlying panic; the kind he used when he would come home from work, take me aside in a whisper: “what kind of mood is your mother in?” within a few hours of receiving my father’s troubling message, i held the letter up to the fluorescent light of my dorm room, flicking a lighter in the other hand. i moved the lighter closer until the blue-rimmed orange flame caught a corner of the envelope. from there, the fire spread quickly. i threw my father’s letter into my dented metal garbage can and watched it curl into ash. only the raised bald-eagle stamp remained distinct and resolute until the end. my father’s health continued to decline; as he slowly disappeared he dismissed our concerns until we stopped acknowledging his shaky hands and shuffling walk. he had parkinson’s disease, a trastienda he tried and failed to keep from us. after my father died, i went on an extended treasure hunt in my childhood home. i rifled through his closet searching for more of those rare trastiendas. had he left behind a diary or other letters? were there pictures to unearth from his time in latin america? my father was careful not to be a character in his own life. the only fact i learned about my father posthumously was from his best friend who said that he and my father served together in guatemala. there is a jewish saying that posits a dream that goes uninterpreted is like an unopened letter from god. god’s letter, after all, must contain some of the secrets of the universe. but sometimes it’s wise to sit on those divine trastiendas for a while. i never told my family about the letter my father told me to burn, or the fact i burned it. i wonder some days if i should have kept it, tucked it away until after my father’s death and read it to further demystify my father’s presence. but there was something so alluring about singeing that letter as my father had ordered. my father’s legacy was an inheritance of secrets, yet only one was mine to keep. about the author judy bolton-fasman writes creative non-fiction and has just completed a book called “asylum avenue: a memoir.” judy’s work has been published in brevity, lunch ticket, tiferet magazine, cognoscenti, 1966: a journal of creative non-fiction, the tahoma literary review and other venues. she lives outside of boston with her family. what's next? letters to the man named "praise god" letters “against the noise, dust, and midday sun, i struggled to frame a shot of kruger that looked much like anything. with elbows pinned to my sides, back slumped, i felt self-conscious and a little abashed. why was i taking this picture? was it historical documentation or vapid cultural voyeurism?” letters letters to the shopkeeper in fez letters “but i mostly remembered your shop because my husband had spent twenty minutes inside it while i’d browsed nearby. he’d emerged looking sheepish. “i need to find an atm,” he said. “i might have made some rash decisions.” letters letters to the man i made into a stranger letters “you were a little shorter, a little taller, a little fatter, a little thinner. always with the same dark, thick, wavy hair, same pale skin. i’d see you in a flash but then the eyes were never right. never as pretty. never as kind.” letters letters to the nun who locked eyes with me letters it was the 70's, and we were part of a large wave of hungry young drifters from all over the world, jews and non-jews, who’d found our way to israel in search of meaning, love, and home letters letters to the host mother of the do-gooders letters my good intentions could not stock your pantry. letters letters to the fenix who commanded authority letters on that street corner in miraflores you projected an authority i doubt i will ever possess, which is problematic for me because i teach high school english. letters letters to the woman looking for the hospital letters you walked, shook your head, the frenzy of seoul swallowing you in its dizzying tapestry. letters letters to the dancer who touched my back letters it's dark, very dark, just as he said it would be. soft, rhythmic music pulses, and soon i begin to feel you crawling across my feet. letters letters to the driver of the bus we hoped would get us to our salseros letters latin dancing enlivened me unlike nothing ever had. letters letters to the guy who gave me pirate booty in honduras letters i’ll admit i barely noticed the scar on your shaved head. too distracted by your stories, or perhaps by the crush i was developing. letters photo by alexandra guerson judy bolton-fasman facebook0 twitter linkedin0 to the one who was supposed to get away letterslavinia spaldingjune 29, 2017ko pha ngan, thailandarchives 3 behind the photos: northern mongolia mining camps behind the photos, behind the featureoff assignmentjune 22, 2017northern mongoliaarchives 2 © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com