skip to content toggle navigation  drew binsky new here? about – about me – where i’ve been – personal accomplishments – faqs blog golf videos press contact – say hello – work with me travel planning services trying to plan a trip, but need help finding the best things to do? don’t want to spend the time making that perfect itinerary? feeling overwhelmed by which places to visit? i would love to help you plan your trips! as someone who has traveled to 95+ countries, 250+ cities and 6 continents since 2012, i have the knowledge and experience to help you get on your way to having the time of your life. i offer first-hand trip planning & recommendations, customized to your fit your budget, schedule and needs. i’ve helped hundreds of people plan their trips all over the world, and you can be the next! from day trips to long vacations, honeymoons, bachelor parties, beach getaways, nightlife extravaganzas, you name it — i will make sure you have the best travel experience possible. please note that i am not a travel agent, but rather, a travel planner. the two are very different services– a travel agent books all flights, tours (etc) and charges an hourly rate + receives commission from airlines. on the contrast, a travel planner, like myself, are travel experts who can provide expert advice based off their own experiences and knowledge. essentially, i will write the best travel itineraries for you (based on your budget & preferences), and it’s your job to make all the bookings. what you get from me my services include, but are not limited to: – general trip consultation – i am happy to discuss your goals and interests – planning your daily activities – giving recommendations for places to visit – suggestions for the best local foods/restaurants, bars, and things to do – car rentals and tour guides – other transportation options such as trains, ferries, buses and more – visa advice (if your trip requires getting a visa) – custom travel guides with specific recommendations and visual maps click here to see a sample itinerary i put together for someone traveling to thailand. what are the benefits? of course, you are more than welcome to book your own trips. however, i am confident that i can save you time, stress and money by handling the details myself. how can i save you money? well, for many destinations, i have expert insights and i know promotional offers and exclusive deals that will save you money. specifically in regards to booking flights and hotels, i am a master at finding the cheapest deals online! by working with me, i can assure you that you will get the most out of your trip, be able to travel efficiently, and maximize your experience. you can leverage my expert local knowledge that i’ve picked up across 95 countries to make sure your trip is the best it can be. the process please email me and tell me the following information about your trip: – your exact budget – desired travel dates (are they flexible) – things you like to do (outdoor sports? beach? cultural? nightlife?) – what you like to eat (include any allergies) – any other ways you like to spend your free time (massages? bungee jumping?) the more details you tell me, the better i can help plan your trip! the cost the price is $249 for your first planned trip, and then $149 for returning customers. if you refer my trip planning services to a friend, then your next trip will be $79. all payments must be made on paypal before i begin putting your trips together. testimonials “drew was excellent in helping plan a last-minute getaway to greece for the holidays with my husband. within just 24 hours of contacting drew, he helped us find cheap flights, gave us his top islands to visit, and even told us which places to party at night per island– our favorite was beach club in mykonos. i absolutely recommend using drew to plan your trips!” – rebecca m. from los angeles “drew binsky is the man! i used drew to recommend some of his favorite activities in thailand for a quick one-week solo trip, and he did a great job from start to finish. he sent me a list with dozens of places to go, how to spend my time and even which hotels to stay to fit my budget. will definitely use drew for my next trip!” – john c. from toronto questions? get in touch! email me and let’s get started! recent posts my 2018 recap: 35 new countries visitedjanuary 3, 2019 iran is not what you think!!july 3, 2018 join us on a group trip to thailand (nov ’18)may 22, 2018 best places to visit in summer 2018may 12, 2018 highlights from a 6 day road trip in floridaapril 3, 2018 most popular posts why i launched this new blog, & what’s next for me… how i afford to travel full-time teaching english in korea 25 best travel tips i’ve picked up from 80+ countries list of all countries i’ve eaten mcdonald’s at (and why) ask me anything! please leave this field empty.