nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel guides our travel guides aim to give you the best and most up to date information on the major travel destinations around the world. here you will find budget tips, money-saving advice, recommendations on places to stay, things to see and do, and where to eat. it doesn’t matter what type of vacation you are going on – cruise, backpacking trip, island getaway, two-week holiday, round-the-world-trip, or a family vacation. these destination guides will give you all the information you need for your trip so you can travel better, longer, and cheaper. i know how bad it is to get outdated information in print guidebooks. i’ve been the victim of it too many times. i update this section twice a year to keep the content fresh! select a country on the map below or search your destination. search for: regional travel guides general travel tips and resources travel is more than just getting up and going. it’s about being knowledgeable so you can travel better, cheaper, and longer. so besides the destination guides above, below you will find links to articles i’ve written that deal with planning your trip and other general advice so your total vacation is as amazing as it can be. these articles are relevant to any trip – no matter how long it is! how to find cheap flights how to find cheap accommodation how to choose a backpack how to get an rtw ticket 17 steps for planning a trip my ultimate packing guide how to buy travel insurance 11 tips for new travelers my favorite hostels solo female travel tips how to pick the right travel credit card 14 travel scams to avoid 15 ways to work overseas 14 key preparation tips too many places: how to deal with ovewhelming options 8 budget vacation ideas how to make your trip 10x more interesting stay in europe more than 90 days my budget city guides book your trip now! below are my favorite companies to use when i travel. they are always my starting point when i need to book a flight, hotel, tour, train, or meeting people! momondo – this is my favorite flight search engine because they search such a wide variety of sites and airlines. i never book a flight without checking here first. skyscanner – skyscanner is another great flight search engline which searches a lot of different airlines, including many of the budget carriers that larger sites miss. while i always start with momondo, i use this site too as a way to compare prices. airbnb – airbnb is a great accommodation alternative for connecting with homeowners who rent out their homes or apartments. the big cities have tons of listings! (if you’re new to airbnb, get $35 off your first stay!) hostelworld – this is the best hostel accommodation site out there, with the largest inventory, best search interface, and widest availability. booking.com – booking probably has the widest selection of budget accommodation in the world. in our studies, they constntly found the cheapest rooms. i lso like their easy to use interface and no money down policy. intrepid travel – if you want to do a group tour around southern asia, go with intrepid travel. they offer good small group tours that use local operators and leave a small environmental footprint. if you go on a tour with anyone, go with them. and, as a reader of this site, you’ll get exclusive discounts when you click the link! sta travel – a good company for those under 30 or for students, sta travel offers discounted airfare as well as travel passes that help you save on attractions. world nomads – i buy all my travel insurance from world nomads. they have great customer service, competitive prices, and in-depth coverage. i’ve been using them since i started traveling in 2003. don’t leave home without it! for companies, check out my travel resources section that includes even more of my favorite travel companies that will save you money, help better your travels, and offer great customer service! get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site