nomadic matt's travel site travel better, cheaper, longer search for: travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel tips get inspired how to save for a trip how to plan your trip get the right gear find cheap airfare get accommodation deal with life on the road save money on the road couples travel solo female travel family and senior travel about blog latest posts an update on life with coronavirus don’t have (travel) regrets 28 things to see and do in san francisco popular posts everyone says i’m running away the ultimate guide to traveling cheap why travel makes you awesome destinations resources travel insurance favorite hostels travel hacking best travel credit cards favorite travel companies destination guidebooks community media school shop travel insurance: everything you need to know travel insurance is something you will need on the road. it’s the most important thing you need. you never know what could happen, and most health insurance plans don’t cover you when you travel. not only does travel insurance cover any injuries or illnesses but it also covers the stuff you take on the road, any accidents that might happen, or trip cancellations that might occur. it’s not just about being able to see a doctor on the road — it’s about making sure that if you fall into an ocean (like i did), your camera can get replaced at no cost. here is why i never leave home without travel insurance: it covers you when you get sick and need to see a doctor. it covers you if you need to get helicoptered out of somewhere. it covers you if you need to be sent home. it covers electronics that break or stolen. it covers if you have to cancel your trip. it covers you if your goods are stolen. it is affordable and offers peace of mind! it is easy to get (and renew online). it is a no brainer – because if something goes wrong, it saves you thousands! for only a few dollars per day, making sure you won’t be out extra money when something goes wrong is the smart and frugal move. after all, a good budget traveler is a smart budget traveler. don’t be penny wise and pound foolish. i once had a friend break her arm and had to pay thousands of dollars because she didn’t buy insurance. don’t let that happen to you! more articles about travel insurance the best cruise travel insurance do you need medical evacuation insurance? what does travel insurance actually cover? the 7 best travel insurance companies the best travel insurance companies for backpackers is travel insurance worth it?read more posts on this topic ----> i use world nomads for my travel insurance and have since my first trip in 2003. they’ve been there for me – and many friends and readers – multiple times over! if you want to book with world nomads, simply use this link to get their travel insurance! disclosure: please note that some of the links above are affiliate links. at no additional cost to you, i earn a commission if you make a purchase. if you have any questions about the companies or my status as an affiliate, please don’t hesitate to e-mail me. get my best stuff sent straight to you! send me tips about us about matt copyright privacy policy contact write for us travel tips start here travel blog destination guides guidebooks community travel forum book club flyte travel media courses book your trip accommodation cheap flights travel insurance travel credit cards favorite companies search follow me on the web facebook twitter instagram pinterest copyright © 2020 · nomadic matt’s travel site