statista logo statista.com statista.es statista.de statista.fr prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics all industries consumer goods & fmcg internet media & advertising retail & trade sports & recreation technology & telecommunications transportation & logistics travel, tourism & hospitality most-viewed statistics recent statistics popular statistics facebook: number of monthly active users worldwide 2008-2019 smartphone market share worldwide by vendor 2009-2019 number of apps available in leading app stores 2019 opec oil price annually 1960-2020 big mac index - global prices for a big mac 2020 topics topic overview smartphones - statistics & facts social media - statistics & facts top study view study industry overview reports dossiers get a quick quantitative overview of a topic outlook reports trend forecasts in the statista market outlooks surveys market insights from an expert and consumer perspective toplists company rankings for sales and analysis market studies complete markets in evaluation industry reports all key figures for an industry global business cities reports global business city rankings and key figures on cities brand reports insights and benchmarks on brands worldwide country reports countries and their potential further studies get a deeper insight into your topic outlooks consumer market outlook everything you need to know about consumer goods digital market outlook identify market potentials of the digital future mobility market outlook key topics in mobility country outlook key economic and social indicators technology market outlook new insights on most important technology markets tools publication finder find studies from all around the internet company database new sales and employment figures at a glance business plan export data sets for your business plan infographics services the statistics portal directly accessible data for 170 industries from 50 countries and over 1 mio. facts. about statista first steps and help centre tools and tutorials explained in our media centre research & analysis customized research & analysis projects: market research & market data modelling quick analysis with our professional research service: askstatista content & information design content marketing & information design for your projects: customized infographic service presentation design animated videos whitepapers, e-books, etc. more information ecommercedb.com kpis for more than 20,000 online stores rankings by country rankings by category go to database global survey new prices & access single accounts corporate solutions universities statistics popular statistics topics markets reports outlooks consumer market digital market mobility market country outlook technology market tools publication finder company database business plan export infographics services content & information design research projects ask statista global consumer survey de es fr follow statista 40k 57k 41k 9.6k industries › travel, tourism & hospitality statistics and market data on travel, tourism & hospitality on this page you can find statistics, facts and market data on the topics travel, tourism & hospitality. this includes, for example, information on restaurants, restaurant chains, food services, hotels, business and leisure travel, holiday destinations and activities, camping, and the cruise industry. the travel & tourism sector has developed into an industry with an annual economic impact (direct, indirect and induced) of around 6.5 trillion u.s. dollars worldwide. in 2012, the number of international tourist arrivals exceeded the one billion mark for the first time, an increase of almost 50 percent compared to ten years earlier. international travelers from china, germany and the united states are amongst the biggest spenders worldwide. the global hotel industry generates approximately between 400 and 500 billion u.s. dollars in revenue each year, one third of that revenue is attributable to the united states. some of the biggest hotel chains (groups) are the intercontinental hotels group, marriott international, hilton worldwide, accor, starwood hotels & resorts, and the wyndham hotel group. three of the most important hotel performance indicators are the average daily rate (adr), the revenue per available room (revpar), and the occupancy rate. the hospitality and restaurant industry is a diverse and highly competitive industry. among the competitors in the industry are single sandwich shops, coffee shops and restaurants, coffeehouses, pizza and quick-service restaurant chains, and also high-end, luxury fine-dining restaurants, offering the customer a vast variety of choices. estimations put the overall revenue from food and drink sales in the united states at more than 600 billion u.s. dollars. major players in the industry include mcdonald’s (limited-service segment) with more than 34 thousand restaurants worldwide, the coffeehouse chain starbucks – with more than 19 thousand stores worldwide – and domino’s pizza in the pizza chain segment. picture: sxc.hu / kolobsek, barunpatroshow more industry overview travel, tourism & hospitality accommodation business travel leisure travel restaurants popular statistics quick service restaurant chains ranked by value worldwide in 2019 change in flight bookings by u.s. travelers due to covid-19 2019-2020, by region impact on u.s. tourism from eu covid-19 travel ban over the next month march 2020 opinion on travel restrictions by government due to covid-19 india 2020 passengers to or from japan using incheon airport in south korea march 2020 weekly percent change in yoy travel sales due to covid-19, by sector u.s. 2020 impact of the coronavirus epidemic on hotel reservations in poland 2020 economic stimulus package for tourism to combat covid-19 impact indonesia 2020 popular studies travel and tourism in the u.s. travel companies travel and tourism in india coronavirus disease 2019 (covid-19) in china tourism in italian cities inbound tourism in italy online food delivery services in the u.s. travel agencies & tour operators in the uk 2018 statista industry report - sic code 79 all relevant data on a given industry created by our industry experts available for download in pdf format go to report more interesting topics from the industry "travel, tourism & hospitality" air transportation in south korea airline passenger experience in the u.s. brexit and the eu-uk travel industry cafe industry and coffee drinkers in south korea carnival in brazil city trips in the u.s. coronavirus (covid-19) in japan domestic tourism in india duty free and travel retail industry expedia inc. global tourism industry green tourism international tourism in india lunar new year in china millennial travel behavior in the u.s. online travel market tourism and hotel industry in singapore tourism in amsterdam tourism in brussels-capital region tourism industry in the philippines travel agency industry travel and tourism in malaysia travel and tourism industry in australia travel and tourism industry in canada travel and tourism industry in egypt travel and tourism industry in india travel and tourism industry in japan travel and tourism industry in latin america travel and tourism industry in south korea travel and tourism industry in the u.s. tripadvisor weddings in australia show all 32 topics more interesting topics from the industry "travel, tourism & hospitality" accommodation accommodation industry in germany airbnb cruise industry hilton worldwide hotel industry hotel industry in gcc hotel industry in the benelux hotel industry in the united kingdom (uk) hotel market in central and eastern europe hotel market in poland hotels in canada intercontinental hotels group marriott international serviced accommodation in the united kingdom (uk) tourism in italian cities tourism in rome tourism in venice tourism industry in germany tourism industry of the egypt tourism industry of the uae whitbread business travel business travel and exhibition industry in china business travel industry in the u.s. domestic tourism in european countries exhibition, convention & meeting industry global business travel industry inbound tourism in european countries outbound tourism in european countries terrorism impact on the travel industry in europe tourism industry in asia pacific travel and tourism in europe travel and tourism in france travel and tourism in latvia travel and tourism in russia travel and tourism in spain travel and tourism in the united kingdom (uk) travel and tourism industry in belgium travel and tourism industry in the netherlands leisure travel camping & rv industry chinese tourism in europe cruise industry cruise industry in europe cruise industry in germany cruise industry in the united kingdom (uk) disney domestic tourism in european countries holiday travel in the united kingdom (uk) inbound tourism in european countries live music industry in the uk long-distance bus market in germany medical tourism in europe medical tourism in latin america national park tourism in the u.s. outbound tourism in european countries overtourism in european destinations recreational boating resorts in the u.s. super bowl terrorism impact on the travel industry in europe timeshares & shared vacation property ownership tourism in barcelona tourism in italian cities tourism in rome tourism in venice tourism industry in asia pacific tourism industry in china tourism industry in germany tourism industry of the egypt tourism industry of the uae travel agencies in the united kingdom (uk) travel and tourism in europe travel and tourism in france travel and tourism in latvia travel and tourism in russia travel and tourism in spain travel and tourism in the united kingdom (uk) travel and tourism industry in belgium travel and tourism industry in the netherlands weekend tourism in the u.s. wellness and spa industry winter sports restaurants bar & nightclub industry burger king cafés and coffee shops in the united kingdom (uk) catering industry in china catering services in the u.s. chipotle mexican grill coffeehouse industry denny's domino's pizza dunkin' brands eating out behavior in the u.s. fast food industry food delivery and takeaway market in the united kingdom (uk) food delivery industry in the u.s. healthy dining in the u.s. just eat mcdonald's online food delivery services in the u.s. papa john's pizza pizza and italian restaurant market in the united kingdom (uk) pizza restaurant / delivery industry quick service restaurant brands restaurant and foodservice industry in the u.s. restaurant brands international restaurant industry in denmark restaurant industry in norway restaurant industry in sweden restaurant industry in the u.s. restaurant industry in the united kingdom (uk) restaurants and food services in europe starbucks subway tim hortons wendy's whitbread yum! brands show more statista search any more questions? get in touch with us quickly and easily. we are happy to help! do you still have questions? feel free to contact us anytime using our contact form or visit our faq page. contact esther shaulova operations manager support@statista.com +1 (212) 419-5770 mon - fri, 9am - 6pm, est contact (europe) lodovica biagi director of operations eu.support@statista.com +44 (0)20 8189 7000 mon - fri, 9:30am - 5pm, gmt contact (asia) ziyan zhang customer relations asia.support@statista.com +91 80 49016428 mon - fri, 11:30am - 10pm, ist we use cookies to personalize contents and ads, offer social media features, and analyze access to our website. in your browser settings you can configure or disable this, respectively, and can delete any already placed cookies. for details, please see your browser’s help section (by pressing f1). please see our privacy statement for details about how we use data.ok home about statista career contact help & faq report bug our media partners privacy imprint menu prices & access popular statistics industries infographics content & design projects research projects askstatista statista.de statista.es statista.fr