home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close travel advice and information during the coronavirus pandemic march 20, 2020 shing yoong instructions and government action regarding travel and the covid-19 outbreak has been constantly changing and we all have questions we want answering. some of you might have trips booked and are worried about losing money, or you might want up-to-date information on travel ban restrictions pertaining to specific countries. in this post i’ve put together information and links to trusted websites relating to the pandemic and i’ve also included answers to some questions which have been unclear or hard to find in one place. i work in the travel industry so i’ve been keeping up-to-date with changes and i’ve also had a couple of trips cancelled myself which, thankfully, have either been postponed or fully refunded. now that the uk government has finally advised against non-essential travel and global borders are rapidly shutting, i thought it would be useful to share what i know. most useful websites check the foreign office (fco) for up-to-date travel advice for british nationals and specific information on all countries. you can access live coronavirus disease (covid-19) updates from the world health organization (who) for further information and worldwide updates. also, take some time to browse the who website for more information regarding health and safety and travel advice. this guardian article provides a comprehensive list of which countries have restrictions and fco warnings in place. it’s easy to read and is being updated as situations change. john hopkins university has created a ‘live tracking’ map which show how many people have been infected and how many people have recovered. should i be avoiding travel right now? yes. borders and airports are closing and airlines are cancelling flights, so there is a high risk of getting stranded. furthermore, should you decide to take a flight and the situation changes when you’re out there it could end up being very, very costly to book a last-minute flight. avoid the stress and stay at home. can i cancel my holiday now and receive a full refund? if the foreign office has advised against all but essential travel to your holiday destination then you are entitled for a refund for your holiday. in my case, i was supposed to be going to israel which was one of the first countries to impose a 14-day quarantine policy upon all visitors entering the country. my friends and i had booked a flight with british airways and accommodation via airbnb. when we asked ba for refund they initially said they could only reimburse us 1/3 of the ticket price but told us to wait because we could be entitled to a full refund at a later date. however, since my friend booked it on a credit card we were able to put a claim in via the bank and received the full refund that way. airbnb were really good and gave us a refund straight away. is postponing an option too? if you have booked through an agent or tour operator (as opposed to booking everything yourself individually) then postponing your holiday will be extremely helpful for the tourism industry. many companies have introduced flexible booking policies, which allow trips to be altered close to departure date as news on covid-19 changes. there is no doubt that travel companies are under massive strain, with many now fighting to survive so if you opt to postpone it will be extremely beneficial for them. also, it’s reassuring to know under the current package travel regulations, travellers are entitled to receive a refund if a company goes into administration. health and safety is paramount by now we all know how important self-isolation is to prevent the spread of the virus and as time passes we are beginning to understand the severity of the situation as the number of confirmed cases rise. hopefully things will resume soon but for now we’ll have to travel within the paths and trails of our imagination. please read these basic protective measures against covid-19 put together by who. see if you can help in your local community we now know the virus poses a much greater risk to older people, so if you are fit and healthy why not consider seeing how you can help in your local community? i was extremely happy to receive a letter through my letterbox from a neighbour asking to help out in my local community in a variety of ways: running errands for the elderly and offering support to the lonely. while not everyone lives in a place with a strong community commitee, it’s worth checking the website of your local council to see if they’ve created sometime similar during a time when people are becoming more isolated and vulnerable. the greatness of a community is most accurately measured by the compassionate action of its members. coretta scott king facebook twitter tumblr pinterest hi, i’m shing from the uk and i live in london. welcome to my travel blog – the culture map. you’ll find tips, guides, recommendations and the odd misadventure from my travels that span over 50 countries and 6 continents. i’ve written about many places, but in my archive there’s a strong focus on scandinavia and the arctic. prevpreviousgetting the train between granada, cordoba & seville in andalucia nextstreet art guide of shoreditch, londonnext i would love to hear your thoughts! cancel reply this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed. useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send