traxpayroll, hr & payroll software digital marketing | seo & ppc ads think web. think smart. services case studies company contact us 201-448-9010 traxpayroll marketing traxpayroll sells more payroll services with a new logo, site design and seo. traxpayroll provides a wide range of payroll services to a broad base of clients. clients include national wholesalers, healthcare associations, media agencies, educational institutions, hospitality brands, and many more. logo web design seo the challenge traxpayroll provides payroll services in an ultra-competitive industry that features giants such as adp & intuit. to better compete, traxpayroll needed an exceptional website to both establish their online presence as well as increase their organic traffic and number of conversions. the plan redesign the website to increase time-on-site and conversion rates. redesign the logo to improve brand image. create hundreds of pages of unique content to drive organic site traffic. create a custom link building strategy to further exploit the unique content. the results 0% increase in total site traffic 0% increase in organic site traffic 0% increase in mobile traffic check out the custom logo design for trax payroll trax payroll homepage design shown on a macbook air. here are two sample graphics we designed for trax payroll that is used on the website's subpages. trax payroll before & after responsive website redesign showcase get started name* email address* phone number* company services you are interested in* website design & developmentsearch engine optimizationpay per click marketingother other (please specify)* how can we help you? captcha email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. ready to speak with a marketing expert? give us a ring 201-448-9010 leading digital marketing agency 700+ websites launched $100m+ client revenue generated after a nightmare experience with other marketing companies, i finally found a hard working group who actually know what they are doing. they handle all of my ads as and designed a website. business has doubled since we started. looking forward to more success. agape health wellness center dr. larry bennett view 100+ more testimonials excellent service at an affordable price. the helpful staff did an excellent job of creating an eye-catching website for both browsers and mobile devices. they are very transparent about their work pricing, presenting you with the full array of options. renato pizza masters lorenzo dimarchi view 100+ more testimonials mike and his team proved to be an invaluable resource. smartsites was there to ensure that the final product matched our vision perfectly. they take the time to learn their clients’ business inside and out, and are a key part of the team every step of the way. sharemoney steven taylor view 100+ more testimonials smartsites is a one stop shop to outsource your website, online marketing and also content. the staff is very knowledgeable and also responsive. englewood cliffs news william woo view 100+ more testimonials alex really is excellent at marketing and since i have joined, our business has tripled this month. he really cares about his clients growth. being a new business growing my business slow and steady with smartsites is by far one of the wisest choices that i have made! lifestyle directives group shari wasserman view 100+ more testimonials they did a great job and i noticed the positive results almost immediately. they are professional and very pleasant to work with. they had responded to all my emails within 1 hour window. i am very happy with the services provided and i highly recommend to everyone. new jersey mediation maryana kanda view 100+ more testimonials follow us on facebook you are here: case studies traxpayroll recent posts posted on march 19, 2020 covid-19 notice: smartsites remains operational read posted on march 2, 2020 our project managers give tips on giving great feedback for website design read posted on march 2, 2020 should healthcare practices utilize local seo? read © 2020 smartsites. all rights reserved. privacy policy address: 45 eisenhower drive, suite 520 paramus, nj 07652, phone: 201-448-9010 services case studies company contact us click to call services case studies contact us company meet our team raving reviews google ads audit × > × do you want a 100% free expert review of your google ads? claim my audit my campaign is perfect