home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog my christmas week recap – live life active fitness blog december 30, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment heyyooo!! happy monday after christmas everyone! i hope you had a fabulous holiday week. i sure did! i spent most of my time in chicago with my family. i've been off work since the 20th..it feels like a while ago but at the same time it also feels like it flew by. why does it always seem like vacation is never long enough? last friday we went out and got some … [read more...] puma punisher workout september 3, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i hope everyone had a fabulous labor day weekend! it was nice to have a long weekend where we weren't traveling the whole time. it was a nice change. on saturday morning, i got to try out my new puma shoes that they sent me to try. they are called puma formlite which are reasonably priced at about $60! the coolest part of these shoes is their weight. they are by far the … [read more...] christmas in july july 13, 2012 by erin weiss 6 comments ahhhh...it feels good to have another successful clean eating day under my belt. i'm on a roll but yesterday wasn't so easy. i was tempted with cookie dough from my boyfriend!! it was hard to pass it up, but i did. i opted for some greek yogurt, carrots and celery instead. thursday time 7/12/12 water meal 1 8:00 4 hard boiled egg whites, 1 slice … [read more...] my long weekend june 25, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment today is my first day back to work since last wednesday. i sooo enjoyed having a few days off from work. i liked it so much, i think i'm ready to retire. wouldn't that be nice! my weekend started wednesday after work. we headed to my boyfriend's hometown to meet his nephew for the first time. he was so stinkin' adorable!! thursday night i was able to just lay low and … [read more...] summer sprints workout may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i figured it was about time to post another one of my hiit workouts. i needed a new treadmill sprint workout that would get me beach body ready for the summer! this is a tough workout that puts your legs to work! do this workout on a treadmill. set your treadmill to an incline of 1%. begin by warming up at a 3.8 speed for 2 minutes. after the 2 minute warm-up, … [read more...] melissa’s fitness journey may 31, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments i'm excited to share a guest post with you today!!! melissa and i have been messaging a bit back and forth and i asked her if she wanted to share her fitness journey with us. she kindly accepted. i'm sure there are so many of you that can relate to her being a mother of two and trying to balance a busy life with staying healthy. thanks for sharing melissa!! hi! my name … [read more...] crossing my fingers! march 29, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments so i'm just too excited, nervous & anxious about something that i can't hold it in anymore. i've gotta tell ya! about a month ago, one of my best girlfriends entered a contest for us to win a girls vacation to the bahamas. we obviously didn't think anything would come out of it...until we made it to the semi-finals!!! we submitted a huge questionnaire and what do ya know?? … [read more...] clean eating can be tough march 14, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments if you know anything about me, you'd know that it's tough for me to eat 100% clean. i have a sweet tooth, am a pizza and mexican food lover and i was raised on fast food at least once a day. i remember waking up for breakfast almost every morning and my mom had mcdonald's or burger king breakfast waiting for me on the kitchen table. at that time, i thought it was … [read more...] where my ladies at? february 22, 2012 by erin weiss 4 comments around 3pm yesterday i started to feel some strange chest pains. i rarely get heart burn, however i have gotten it before, so i don't think it was that. it was just a strange tightness in my chest. i started to get worried. i decided i would give the gym a go and see how i felt. i got to the locker room and started getting extremely hot and sweaty. i sat down for a few … [read more...] 30 minute 4:1 moderate cardio february 13, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment you can do this moderate cardio session on either the treadmill, elliptical, stairmill or bike! it's very versatile. i did this on a treadmill. if you do this on another piece of equipment, you'll have to find a speed that puts you at about 80% of your maximum heart rate and use that as your high speed. i chose 5.3 because it kept my heart rate at an average of 163 (which … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in