home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads relationship lessons from trees the spirit of the woods: poet and painter rebecca hey’s gorgeous 19th-century illustrations for the world’s first encyclopedia of trees calculating the incalculable: thoreau on the true value of a tree labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks trees at night: stunning rorschach silhouettes from the 1920s “aside from the appearance of a tree by day or night, is it not kin of the human family with its roots in the earth and its arms stretching toward the sky as if to seek and to know the great mystery?” by maria popova walt whitman considered trees the wisest of teachers. hermann hesse found in them sweet consolation for our mortality. wangari maathai turned to them as a form of resistance and empowerment that earned her the nobel peace prize. “the tree which moves some to tears of joy is in the eyes of others only a green thing which stands in the way,” william blake wrote in his most beautiful letter. “as a man is, so he sees.” a century after blake, the artist, writer, and activist arthur henry “art” young (january 14, 1866–december 29, 1943) originated a sumptuous new way of seeing life, looking at trees. in his forties, young had risen to prominence with his political cartoons, criticizing capitalism and war, railing against racism, and advocating for women’s suffrage and the abolition of child labor. during world war i, they had rendered him prosecuted on a charge of conspiracy to obstruct recruiting. with some of thoreau coursing through his veins, young made his art both an instrument of civil disobedience and a lens for contemplating nature’s transcendent beauty. art young in his fifties, young’s imagination fell upon a subject both wholly natural and wholly original — the expressive humanlike shapes, states, and emotions emanating from the silhouettes of trees at night. he began rendering what he half-saw and half-imagined in pen and ink — haunting black-and-white drawings full of feeling, straddling the playful and the poignant. these visual poems, replete with the strangeness and splendor of nature and human nature, become the kind of rorschach test one intuitively performs while looking at the sky, but drawn from the canopy rather than the clouds. while the sensibility is faintly reminiscent of arthur rackham’s unforgettable trees, the concept is entirely young’s own — no artist had done anything like this before. available as a print available as a print available as a print first published as a series in the saturday evening post, young’s tree silhouettes were soon picked up by mainstream magazines like collier’s and life. they drew impassioned letters from readers — some sharing poems inspired by his art, some enclosing tree photographs they hoped young would draw, some simply thanking him for these uncommon portals into an unseen world of beauty and emotion. available as a print available as a print in 1927, young assembled the best of his arborescent silhouettes in the slim, lovely out-of-print treasure trees at night (public library). upon the book’s publication, brooklyn’s daily eagle exulted that it “places art young in a class by himself” and baltimore’s evening sun lauded him as “one of the few real native talents that this country has produced in art.” available as a print available as a print available as a print printed on the opening page is an excerpt from an early-autumn entry in young’s diary: in common with most people of artistic perception, i like trees. while looking out of my window toward the wooded hills one summer night, a caravan of camels seemed to be humping along the sky. they were trees of course but enough like camels to key my imagination up to discover other pictures in the formation of foliage. the rest of the summer nights i enjoyed hunting for tree pictures against the light of the sky or thrown into relief by the glare of automobiles, and drawing them next day. it seemed to me that this silhouette handling of trees at night had never before been done by any artist. i felt that i had discovered something. after the caravan, i saw “a woman and a fan” and other subjects followed. any night i could walk or ride along the road and see interesting silhouettes made by tree forms, many of them so clearly defined as to need no improvement on my part. but aside from the appearance of a tree by day or night, is it not kin of the human family with its roots in the earth and its arms stretching toward the sky as if to seek and to know the great mystery? available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print available as a print complement young’s trees at night with something he never lived to know but would have cherished knowing — the fascinating science of what trees feel and how they communicate — then revisit the night life of trees, drawn from indian folklore, and philosopher martin buber on what trees teach us about being human. a portion of the proceeds from these art prints supports the beautiful and necessary work of the arbor day foundation. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published august 6, 2019 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2019/08/06/trees-at-night-art-young/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under artart youngbookscultureillustrationout of printtrees view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.