newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close trends this living room color “trend” is as classic as evernews choosing a color to paint your living room walls is a pretty big decision, especially since most people spend lots of time relaxing on the couch or entertaining with loved ones in the space. you might want a paint color that is both unique and eye-catching but that you’ll love even if you change your mind about your furniture or decor choices a few years down the road, which is why you’ll probably be surprised by the top living room color trend of 2020. arielle tschinkel mar 11, 2020 the latest houseware trend is all over amazon—and for less than $20style grandmillennial style goes colorful. olivia harvey mar 10, 2020 survey says: these are the worst trends of each decadenews do you agree? megan johnson feb 12, 2020 are diamonds really forever? these alternative engagement rings say nonews as couples look for unique ways to symbolize their love, they are eschewing the the classic sparkly bauble. marissa hermanson feb 11, 2020 the broomstick challenge is sweeping the internet with these hilarious tweetsnews get ready to feel inspired to try it yourself. nicoletta richardson feb 11, 2020 this will be the most popular color in 2020, according to a trend study (spoiler: it’s not blue)news even though we’re officially into the new decade, that doesn’t stop the predictions from coming—and this trends study delivers a new option for this year’s most popular color. nicoletta richardson jan 22, 2020 here are the best ways to budget in january (and beyond), according to pinterestnews pinterest’s latest report proves that many people are focusing on that side of wellness in 2020. nicoletta richardson jan 10, 2020 the experts have spoken, and these 3 trends should stay in the 2010s (sorry, chip and jo)news are these soooo last decade? nicoletta richardson jan 7, 2020 these will be 2020’s most popular plants, according to one expert “plant mom”news these plants are sure to be seen taking over interiors throughout 2020. kenya foy dec 24, 2019 dining rooms may be making a comeback in 2020news though for some of us they still sound like an impossible luxury of space. mia nakaji monnier dec 21, 2019 the home trends we’ll see in 2020, as predicted by real estate prosreal estate before you pack up your brass fixtures, terrazzo accents, and macrame, take some time to sneak a preview of what real estate experts say are the top home trends we’ll be checking off our lists in 2020. sarah magnuson dec 18, 2019 pantone announced their kitchen trends for 2020 and beyondnews let's dive into each kitchen trend that pantone's color experts brought to our attention. nicoletta richardson dec 16, 2019 we’re calling it—sauna beds are the new weighted blanketsstyle 'tis the season to be snug as a bug—in a sauna bed? danielle blundell dec 11, 2019 etsy just announced their color of the year, plus other trends that will be big in 2020news here's what the maker platform is betting will be big in january and beyond. tara bellucci dec 10, 2019 5 overdone bedroom trends, according to real estate agents real estate it's time to ditch the word art. kate streit dec 5, 2019 this is pantone’s 2020 color of the yearnews we think you're going to like it. tara bellucci dec 4, 2019 8 weird home trends that we hope aren't coming backstyle bathroom carpeting is never a good idea, people! marlen komar nov 14, 2019 3 living room trends that are slowly disappearing from our homesstyle thank u, next. ann loynd burton oct 24, 2019 benjamin moore’s 2020 color of the year is the alternative to beige you’ve been waiting fornews the announced hue “reflects a new definition of home” that revolves around flexibility and inclusivity while being “fresh” and “playful.” nicoletta richardson oct 11, 2019 valspar announced not one, but a dozen colors of the year for 2020news the paint company just debuted twelve hues for the coming year, in case you'd like one for each month of 2020. tara bellucci oct 4, 2019 pinterest says this is the trending color for halloweennews traditionally, halloween is all about orange and black, but it need not be. in fact, spooky season has gotten a softer makeover, according to pinterest. tara bellucci oct 3, 2019 this 2020 color of the year is making us blushnews while millennial pink mania has died down in some respects, we're all a bit more open to exploring our softer sides. tara bellucci sep 25, 2019 8 design trends that will rule the rest of 2019 style take your space to the next level with these design trends. kelsey mulvey sep 24, 2019 sherwin-williams’ 2020 color of the year is inspired by the roaring ’20snews as we prepare to enter a new decade, one paint brand is looking back to a century another. today, sherwin-williams announced its 2020 color of the year, and it's a shade that's inspired by art deco and the roaring '20s, as well as nature. any guesses? tara bellucci sep 23, 2019 glidden is not naming a 2020 color of the year…for good reasonnews don’t hold your breath for glidden’s color of the year: the popular paint brand has announced its decision to opt out of choosing a 2020 hue. while many consumers look to the annual practice for design inspiration (choosing a paint color can get pretty stressful), folks shouldn’t to worry because glidden’s decision stems from a desire to better prioritize the decorative needs of diyers who are anxious to get going on their last home makeover projects. kenya foy sep 18, 2019 8 trends on amazon that look more expensive than they really are style as the everything store, amazon sells virtually everything imaginable—including the latest trends on the cheap. danielle blundell sep 10, 2019 seriously, what's the difference between cane, wicker, and rattan?style there's something about this woven furniture and accessories that makes any room feel like it's summer year-round. kelsey mulvey sep 9, 2019 4 super simple ways to fake an open-concept layoutstyle don't worry, there's life after the open-concept floor plan. sarah lyon sep 5, 2019 if you love to travel, you should know about ‘shoulder season’news consider this a psa. gina vaynshteyn aug 19, 2019 6 beautiful bedroom trends that will take over 2019 style ready to hit the refresh button on your bedroom? these trends will look good well into the new year. kelsey mulvey aug 16, 2019 sherwin-williams on what color palettes will take us into 2020 and beyondnews 2020 will be all about wellness. tara bellucci aug 15, 2019 8 trends that will be huge in 2020, according to the ikea catalognews flipping through the new ikea catalog each year gives us more than a just peek into what new products the retailer is adding to shelves; it's a window into what will be big in interiors in the next 12 months. the pages are packed with inspiration, and this year we narrowed it down to eight trends we expect to see a lot more of in 2020. tara bellucci jul 31, 2019 these fabulous fringe accessories look luxe, but they’re all under $100style they're trendy, pretty, and relatively affordable. karen marsala jul 25, 2019 your inner emo kid is going to fall hard for these goth plantsnews the term “goth plants” isn’t one you’ll see in your average box store garden department. these plants have darker leaves and flowers, deeper and richer colors, and/or other components that are more emo than your run-of-the-mill greenery. this reddit thread on colocasia black magic led me to the plant goths thread, and my interest was officially piqued. elizabeth seward jul 12, 2019 this is the most popular interior design style in your statestyle ever wonder if preferred interior design styles might vary from state to state? we sure do. are california beach towns heavy on the surf vibes indoors? do the north woods of the usa prefer the minimalistic scandinavian design leanings as a byproduct of both climate and distant heritage? maybe glam interiors are more popular in nevada? luckily, joybird has come to the rescue with some factual state-by-state design data for the rest of us. elizabeth seward jun 17, 2019 9 living room trends heating up this summerstyle if there’s one room you should consider refreshing regularly, it would definitely be your living room. whether you’re netflix and chilling with your significant other or having a bunch of friends over for wine and cheese, your living room is probably one of the most trafficked places in your home. kelsey mulvey may 25, 2019 8 wall murals even a minimalist could lovestyle wall murals are massive and oftentimes splashy, which makes some people cautious when it comes to trying them, but even though they take up a lot of space and have a lot of character, they don’t need to be overwhelming. it’s all about having a vision for your space first, and then choosing a mural that will help tie it together. when you understand what you want your mural to do in your room, then you will be able to narrow down the actual style you want to buy. marlen komar apr 22, 2019 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc