the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop clips trevor noah gets 13 minutes with the one guy you want to listen to on covid-19 you may also like news someone's suing mandy moore for $150,000 for posting a photo of...herself patrick gomezyesterday 3:24pm the root the president is a pandemic-sized asshole and when he’s called on it, he attacks the media stephen a. crockett jr.yesterday 10:30am the slot don't let trump get away with it esther wangwednesday 8:08am more from g/o media read on coronavirus is exposing how backward car buying is read on here's a new covid-19 data site to obsessively refresh read on another ww1 fps wants to get into the trenches read on this is all going to last longer than we think subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe dennis perkins today 4:31am • filed to:clips clipsdr. anthony faucitrevor noahthe daily showcoronavirusdonald trump 42 4 trevor noah, dr. anthony fauci screenshot: the daily show just to clear away any misconceptions, the one person you want to pay attention to concerning the coronavirus is not donald trump. also toss out the following: anyone on the internet; fox news; religious types blaming gay people for the disease; any civic leader who sounds like the mayor from jaws; panicky bigots scapegoating asian people for “weaponizing” the disease; anyone insisting that calling it “the chinese virus” isn’t a racist attempt at such scapegoating; alex jones or glenn beck (good advice in any situation); and donald trump. just putting that last one in there twice in an abundance of caution. nope, the one guy who’s emerged as the no-bullshit voice of sanity, science, and practical, patriotically factual advice on the current pandemic is dr. anthony s. fauci, infectious disease expert, advisor to six presidents, and, in his own irascibly endearing immunity to political sway and spin, sort of like a diminutive larry david that you never want to strangle. appearing (via responsibly remote video chat) on trevor noah’s new normal daily show—shot in noah’s apartment and retitled the daily social distancing show—the good doctor was, as ever, only too happy to explain the whole, world-disrupting coronavirus mess with his signature blend of calm reassurance and head-smacking “don’t be completely stupid” admonitions. and noah, repeatedly expressing gratitude for fauci’s time in talking to his viewers, largely left the politics of this whole mismanaged shitshow out of the extended segment. instead, he did what most of us would do if we had the genial and somehow still not-fired-by-trump doctor to ourselves for a quarter-hour, asking a precise and comprehensive series of questions in an attempt to pin down the whirling cloud of fears and doubts about the virus that make sitting responsibly home alone into an exercise in barely suppressed panic-sweat. advertisement not that the politics of a preternaturally egomaniacal and irresponsible dingbat being in charge of the nation’s messaging and response to this unprecedented-in-our-lifetimes health disaster are far from any such discussion, but noah and fauci offered up a substantive, even-tempered, and almost wholly trump-free rundown of what the coronavirus is, how it’s spread, and what the prognosis is for its retreat. that said, noah did have to ask about people recklessly spreading anecdotal (and deadly) tales of untested anti-covid medical cures, which is something any host has to do when donald trump is the one doing the bullshit-spreading. and, sure, dr. fauci was called upon to debunk the idea that announcing an outside-by-easter, 15-day target date for reopening every business and public space in america is just donald trump pulling numbers out off his ass. (not dr. fauci’s exact words, but, still.) and fauci, while cautioning that the country is now in the position of “catching up on things that weren’t done so well in the beginning,” studiously avoided pointing any fingers, although, as with everything the heroically busy guy says in this time of otherwise-rudderless national crisis, that circumspection seemed more about focusing on what’s actually important than covering his ass or protecting his job. because, as shown once more on noah’s homebound daily show, apart from protecting every single person in the united states from infectious disease, dr. anthony s. fauci doesn’t give a fuck. dennis perkins posts twitter contributor, the a.v. club. danny peary's cult movies books are mostly to blame. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club nyu tisch dean replies to pleas for tuition refunds with bizarre video of her dancing to r.e.m. all is resolved in an underwhelming star trek: picard finale america eased into the ’60s with the bedroom comedies of doris day and rock hudson the best alien invasion movie of 1996 isn’t the one with will smith share tweet