skip to content site navigation site navigation get started ethics about submenu toggle about cranky cranky in the news top sections submenu toggle across the aisle interviews airlines we lost ask cranky cranky jackass 72 hours with tales from the field trip reports who the f*&@ is worst airline ever directory contact cranky concierge show secondary sidebar search for: search category: trip reports great service, not-so-great product on a delta 767-300er from jfk (trip report) great service, not-so-great product on a delta 767-300er from jfk (trip report) after our stay at the twa hotel at jfk, it was time to go home. fortunately — unlike on the way out when we flew into newark — this time we were flying home from jfk so we didn’t have far to go. we opted to take a mid-day flight … cf on feb 19, 2020 feb 20, 2020 great product, not-so-great service on a united 787-10 to newark (trip report) great product, not-so-great service on a united 787-10 to newark (trip report) it was time to get back in the saddle again after a nice, long holiday lull away from flying. this time, i was heading to new york for wendy perrin’s wow list summit. the last time she had one was three years ago down in mexico, and it was a … cf on feb 6, 2020 feb 6, 2020 flying united to chicago for media day (trip report) flying united to chicago for media day (trip report) after a few days in washington, it was time to move on to chicago for united’s global media day. even though i flew into dulles for the weekend event, i had moved into the district for a couple days of meetings and seeing old friends. that meant national was … cf on nov 12, 2019 nov 12, 2019 flying the friendly but broken skies to washington (trip report) flying the friendly but broken skies to washington (trip report) to say i don’t fly united often is an understatement. the last time i set foot on a united-operated airplane was more than two years ago when i flew back from kona to la. before that, it was more than four years ago. even if you include regionals, it’s … cf on nov 1, 2019 nov 5, 2019 delta to portland: big bins and great service (trip report) delta to portland: big bins and great service (trip report) just a couple months after my last trip to portland, it was time to return. and just like last time, i had a bunch of flight issues before travel. we were actually heading up for a family wedding in the willamette valley an hour outside portland, and after we … cf on oct 14, 2019 oct 15, 2019 flying on jetblue’s brand new and hard-to-find “phase 2” interiors (trip report) flying on jetblue’s brand new and hard-to-find “phase 2” interiors (trip report) i expected this to be just another normal trip report for my flight to vegas for the boyd conference, but oh was i wrong. jetblue has very few of its so-called “phase 2” a320 retrofits out in the wild, and i happened to get on one. though i’ll talk about … cf on oct 2, 2019 oct 3, 2019 a hawaiian a330 ride back to reality (trip report) a hawaiian a330 ride back to reality (trip report) after thirty days on o’ahu, it was finally time to come home. for the ride back, there weren’t any good award options available so we surveyed our choices for paid tickets. the first thought was to fly straight back to long beach, but we wanted to get home earlier in … cf on sep 18, 2019 sep 23, 2019 five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (trip report – part 2) five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (trip report – part 2) in the first part of this story, alex and i were just about to miss our flight from kahului to lihu’e thanks to some sort of computer error. the problem was solved just in the nick of time, and they shut the door right after we scampered on to … cf on sep 11, 2019 sep 16, 2019 five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (trip report – part 1) five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (trip report – part 1) three years ago, i took eight flights on southwest within california without ever touching the same airport twice. knowing i was spending a month in hawai’i this summer, i thought i’d try to do the same thing with hawaiian airlines. until fairly recently, this was hard since nearly all … cf on sep 11, 2019 sep 12, 2019 five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (video) five airports, four islands, one day of hawaiian flyin’ (video) it’s labor day here in the us, and that means i usually don’t post. but i have such a backlog of things to push out there, i thought i’d put out a little video for you. on august 7, i flew around hawai’i touching every one of the big airports … cf on sep 1, 2019 sep 2, 2019 the great maui sugar and potato chip adventure (trip report) the great maui sugar and potato chip adventure (trip report) bidding continues through wednesday for the cranky dorkfest lax progressive dinner. you can get full information and place your bids here. here are the current top bids: during my month-long stay in hawai’i, i told my kids they could each have a special “dad adventure.” my daughter unsurprisingly chose … cf on aug 18, 2019 aug 20, 2019 love lana’i (a cranky travelogue) love lana’i (a cranky travelogue) it’s a wednesday so that’s not a normal posting day, but i have a not-so-normal post for you. since i received great feedback from my inaugural cranky travelogue about my trip to islay, i thought i’d do a quick one for my brief visit to the island of lana’i in … cf on aug 13, 2019 aug 14, 2019 posts navigation page 1 page 2 page 3 … page 18 nextnext footer widget area terms of use | privacy policy | do not sell my personal information cranky flier © 2020 · all rights reserved scroll to top of the page do not follow this link or you will be banned from the site!