hecklerspray grown up gossip & internet villainy tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods february 19th, 2019 by krysta fitzpatrick i want you all to know that i am only reporting this shit because it is my duty, given that every other gossip site is on it, and who am i to ignore news even when i don’t believe it for a second? khloe kardashian’s wandering dick baby-daddy tristian thompson has allegedly cheated on her yet again, which isn’t surprising. however, everyone from us weekly to every bitch on instagram is now claiming that he cheated with none other than kylie jenner super bff, jordyn woods. right away, i’m calling bullshit. jordyn woods is insanely tight with all the kardashians and jenners and has been for a decade. she fucking lives with kylie and was in the room when stormi was born. she modeled for khloe’s good american line and, tbh, has always seemed like the most authentic person in that group. that being said, tmz is claiming that jordyn and tristan were all over each other at some dumb party. tristan tweeted “fake news” and then deleted it, suggesting the story about him and woods was bs. typically i wouldn’t believe tristan’s cheating denials, but in the case of jordyn, i’m not buying it. that girl is an unofficial member of that family, so i’ll agree with tristan on the fake news bit. in sadder news, karl lagerfield died. maybe that deserves a whole blog, but i’m lazy, and he was old, and old people die. it’s sad, and rip, but, you know. it is what it is. leave a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * notify me of new posts by email. a mediocre rundown of the 2019 oscars so the jodyn and tristan thing is probably true tristan thompson allegedly cheats on khloe kardashian with jordyn woods lil xan is having a kid and i can't deal with that katy perry and orlando bloom are engaged blogroll rumorfix hecklerspray.com copyright © 2019 · · terms · privacy · dmca · contact