australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 17:58 edt trish regan out at fox business after conspiracy theory coronavirus rant regan said the virus was a "scam" created by president donald trump's enemies to wreck the economy. by sebastian murdock, huffpost us conspiracy theorist trish regan has left her position as a fox business news host following an off-the-rails monologue in which she falsely claimed democrats were drumming up fears about the coronavirus to make president donald trump look bad. “this is yet another attempt to impeach the president,” regan said on her program, “trish regan primetime,” earlier this month. a graphic that appeared on-screen said “coronavirus impeachment scam.” we’ve reached a tipping point. the chorus of hate being leveled at #presidenttrump is nearing a crescendo as #dems blame him—and only him—for #coronavirus - a #virus that originated halfway around the world! this is yet another attempt to #impeach the president. #trishreganpic.twitter.com/nu3p4zcona — trish regan (@trish_regan) march 10, 2020 she was echoing the words of trump himself, who has claimed that coverage of the virus had become a democratic or media “hoax” made up to hurt his chances of reelection. regan also claimed trump’s enemies were trying to “create mass hysteria to encourage a market selloff” and “stop our economy dead in its tracks.” outrage from regan’s comments caused the network to put her show on hiatus two weeks ago. regan claimed in a tweet that the hiatus was due to coronavirus concerns ― the very thing she hoped to downplay as a serious threat on her show ― but the picture became clearer friday when the show’s cancellation was announced. “we thank her for her contributions to the network over the years and wish her continued success in her future endeavors,” the network said in a statement. “we will continue our reduced live primetime schedule for the foreseeable future in an effort to allocate staff resources to continuous breaking news coverage on the coronavirus crisis.” in her own statement, regan said she was leaving to focus on her family. “i have enjoyed my time at fox and now intend to focus on my family during these troubled times,” regan said. “i am grateful to my incredible team at fox business and for the many opportunities the network has provided me. i’m looking forward to this next chapter in my career.” covid-19 has killed more than a thousand u.s. citizens, with thousands more infected. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction sebastian murdock senior reporter, huffpost more: coronavirus conspiracy theory fox business trish regan trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too who's hiring in canada? companies look to fill jobs amid covid-19 pandemic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.