msn back to msn home money powered by microsoft news web search skip to navigation skip to content skip to footer sign in change language & content: afrique francophone (français) américa latina (español) argentina (español) australia (english) belgië (nederlands) belgique (français) brasil (português) canada (english) canada (français) česká republika (čeština) chile (español) colombia (español) danmark (dansk) deutschland (deutsch) españa (español) france (français) india (english) india (मराठी) india (हिंदी) india (বাংলা) india (తెలుగు) indonesia (bahasa indonesia) international edition (english) ireland (english) italia (italiano) magyarország (magyar) malaysia (english) méxico (español) nederland (nederlands) new zealand (english) norge (norsk, bokmål) österreich (deutsch) perú (español) philippines (english) polska (polski) portugal (português) schweiz (deutsch) singapore (english) south africa (english) suisse (français) suomi (suomi) sverige (svenska) türkiye (türkçe) united arab emirates (english) united kingdom (english) united states (english) united states (español) venezuela (español) việt nam (tiếng việt) ελλάδα (ελληνικά) россия (pусский) ישראל (עברית)‏ الإمارات العربية المتحدة (العربية‏) المملكة العربية السعودية (العربية‏) مصر (العربية‏) ไทย (ไทย) 한국 (한국어) 中华人民共和国 (简体中文) 台灣 (繁體中文) 日本 (日本語) 香港特别行政區 (繁體中文) switch to latino (español) feedback help en choose a language united states (english) - en united states (español) - es money today my watchlist markets investing personal finance real estate careers small business mortgages savings rates credit cards tools more news weather coronavirus news election 2020 entertainment sports lifestyle health & fitness food & drink travel autos video kids for good adchoices a look inside navy hospital ships fighting covid-19 stocks close sharply lower, ending big 3-day rally trump authorizes call-up of military reservists hall of fame golfer's home burns to ground italy virus deaths rise by more than 900 red sox's pedroia is selling his seven-bedroom mansion medical schools considering early graduation for students trader joe’s is temporarily closing some stores to clean and restock shelves cheesecake factory furloughs 41,000 workers amid coronavirus despite recent feud, giannis pays harden a big compliment how to jumpstart your car if you haven't driven it in weeks what is 'tiger king' and why is everybody watching it? 'it can kill anyone': 'perfectly healthy' texas dad dies from virus mcdavid, others give thoughts on nhl playoffs confirmed covid-19 cases in us top 100,000 depp allowed to pursue suit vs. heard athletes show this is no time to stick to sports poll: nearly 25% in us lost job or furloughed prince charles and camilla clap while quarantined to thank nhs workers crazy lincoln monster truck limo proves too much is never enough coronavirus emerges as major threat to u.s. election process trump orders gm to make ventilators maren morris opens up about 30 hour labor, emergency c-section ufc champ 'focused on being a first responder' amid pandemic mall giant to tenants: you must pay rent during virus closures grandfather comforts crying wife through care facility window amid isolation what’s the difference between long and short blocks? campaigns pivot as races sidelined by virus who will get what and when from the $2 trillion relief package kelly ripa's daughter on quarantining with her famous parents report: nba could hold play-in tourney, playoffs in las vegas how to know when stocks have really hit rock bottom 15 things under $15 that will keep you entertained at home gm deal for ventilators pauses over cost, white house shops around sanders: 'steep road' to beat biden defiant gop rep. criticizes leaders for preventing him from speaking review: 'the glass hotel' and 'valentine' are spellbinding novels mlb, players reach deal on service time, salaries, draft zoom's massive 'overnight success' took 9 years 20 brain teasers that'll give you a serious mental workout a population stuck inside may be getting more interested in jeeps trump campaign nixes 2020 ad blitz touting economy 5 lives. 5 countries. 5 weeks. how coronavirus swept the globe da brat comes out on instagram, introduces girlfriend herbstreit: 'shocked' if nfl, cfb happen in '20 calculator tells you how big your coronavirus check could be 'bbc dad' is struggling to work from home amid coronavirus pandemic 2020 land rover discovery sport: not much more than a pretty face pete buttigieg on life after the trail public figures sorry for virus downplay truckers wary of new york deliveries create headache for grocers matthew boyle 1 day ago a look inside navy hospital ships fighting covid-19 stocks close sharply lower, ending big 3-day rally (bloomberg) -- delivering food to new york city’s supermarkets isn’t easy even in normal times. now, it’s become a supply chain conundrum that’s testing the nerves of grocers, truckers and manufacturers alike. some truckers are refusing to carry orders into the city and surrounding suburbs like new rochelle that have been hard hit by the coronavirus, even as demand for groceries is double or triple normal levels as shoppers stockpile soup and other everyday goods. there is no evidence that food is growing scarce in the city. but one index, which measures loads of all types of goods destined for brooklyn that were rejected by shippers, has tripled compared with the same time last year, reflecting carriers’ inability or unwillingness to haul loads into the epicenter of the outbreak. the white house’s call for all those leaving new york city to self-quarantine for 14 days has spooked and confused some drivers, according to people monitoring shipments, while delivery curfews and requests to register “essential employees” have created additional friction. some warehouse operators are even insisting on taking truck drivers’ temperatures as they pull into depots. “closing the gap between demand and supply is mostly a matter of trucks and distance,” said phil palin, a supply-chain resiliency expert who’s currently advising grocers. “distance has been reduced by the evaporation of traffic congestion. but -- and this is a big but -- truck driver fears of contagion and confusion over government health guidance threaten the volume and velocity of grocery distribution.” won’t go a march 25 report from the supply chain analysis network, a state of the industry report compiled by experts in the field, noted a “particular concern related to the grocery supply chain serving the city of new york.” while the report said “the grocery supply chain should be able to sustain and enhance flows,” it found that truckers “have been much more likely to reject offers to deliver” to the new york metropolitan area. to be sure, truckers could reject loads bound for new york not out of fear but simply because they got a better paying job elsewhere, and freight rates have increased with demand spiking. also, manhattan’s tight confines and myriad parking regulations mean that the city is never an easy place to get into and out of for a truck, compared with a spacious walmart parking lot. “as with any crisis, there are naturally going to be logistical challenges in getting needed supplies to their destinations,” said sean mcnally, a spokesman for the american trucking associations. “we are hearing sporadic reports that drivers would rather not go to new york, but this was true before the pandemic struck.” still, grocers and wholesalers who operate in the big apple don’t need any additional headaches right now. morty sloan, chief executive officer of morton williams, which has 14 supermarkets in manhattan, said its supplier, wakefern food corp., is “getting us trucks when they can.” nighttime deliveries “a truck that would normally come tuesday, might come wednesday or thursday,” said sloan, who buys from hundreds of other food suppliers in addition to wakefern. “it may come at night instead of the morning. in other words, they are doing the best they can.” wakefern didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment. meanwhile, big grocery wholesalers are boosting capacity and borrowing from others. mike duffy, chief executive officer of c&s wholesale grocers inc., which supplies groceries to target corp. and stop & shop, has brought on employees from fellow wholesaler us foods holding corp., which typically serves thousands of restaurants that are now closed. duffy said he’s not had a problem getting food to new york, but has heard that some truckers are remaining inside their rigs during deliveries or simply dropping goods off at the curb. “they’re taking precautionary measures,” he said. “it’s human nature.” for more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com ©2020 bloomberg l.p. read more microsoft may earn an affiliate commission if you purchase something through recommended links in this article. adchoices 1 2 3 you may like ad microsoft 3 stocks we’re doubling down on in 2020 the motley fool expert: this is the #1 cash back card on the market creditcards.com $150 bonus + 0% apr until mid-2021 nextadvisor adchoices feedback © 2020 microsoft privacy & cookies terms of use about our ads help newsletter msn worldwide msn blog about us editorial standards found the story interesting? like us on facebook to see similar stories i'm already a fan, don't show this again facebook app for windows 10 connect with friends faster than ever with the new facebook app. get the app send msn feedback we appreciate your input! how can we improve? please give an overall site rating: submit close privacy statement help & support