watch live: trump speaks at coronavirus task force briefing election 2020 tv politics trump entertainment sports opinion newsletter store election 2020 tv politics trump entertainment sports opinion newsletter store trump hits governors criticizing federal gov’t coronavirus response: ‘if they don’t treat you right, i don’t call’ trump delivers rare, glowing praise for rachel maddow, shares coronavirus clip from her show chris wallace shoots down ed henry’s comparison of pelosi to gop rep. trying to force in-person coronavirus relief vote democratic rep. haley stevens absolutely explodes on house floor, refuses to yield ahead of coronavirus vote trump shares john kerry’s tweet calling rep. massie an ‘a**hole’: never knew he had ‘good sense of humor’ trump rages against ‘third rate’ gop congressman for threatening to block stimulus: throw him ‘out of republican party!’ by joe depaolomar 27th, 2020, 10:20 am president donald trump went off on a republican congressman for threatening to block the relief bill soon to come up for a vote on the house floor. in a pair of scathing tweets, the president laced into rep. thomas massie (r-ky) for his opposition to the package. “looks like a third rate grandstander named @repthomasmassie, a congressman from, unfortunately, a truly great state, kentucky, wants to vote against the new save our workers bill in congress,” trump wrote. “he just wants the publicity. he can’t stop it, only delay, which is both dangerous …& costly. workers & small businesses need money now in order to survive. virus wasn’t their fault. it is ‘hell’ dealing with the dems, had to give up some stupid things in order to get the ‘big picture’ done. 90% great! win back house, but throw massie out of republican party!” looks like a third rate grandstander named @repthomasmassie, a congressman from, unfortunately, a truly great state, kentucky, wants to vote against the new save our workers bill in congress. he just wants the publicity. he can’t stop it, only delay, which is both dangerous…… — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) march 27, 2020 …& costly. workers & small businesses need money now in order to survive. virus wasn’t their fault. it is “hell” dealing with the dems, had to give up some stupid things in order to get the “big picture” done. 90% great! win back house, but throw massie out of republican party! — donald j. trump (@realdonaldtrump) march 27, 2020 massie, who represents kentucky’s 4th district, told a local radio station (via the louisville courier-journal) that he plans to reject the bill, and suggested he might object to a voice vote — which would require all the members to return to the house. the congressman says he objects to the legalization because it would explode the national debt. “this is $2 trillion,” massie said. “divide $2 trillion by 350 million people — it’s almost $6,000 for every man, woman and child. i’m talking about spending. this won’t go to the men, women and children. so if you have a family of five, this spending bill represents $30,000 of additional u.s. national debt because there is no plan to pay for it.” $2 trillion (congress) +$4 trillion (fed & treasury) ——————————— $6 trillion stimulus $6 trillion divided by 350 million citizens = $17,000 per citizen times a family of 4 =$68,000 per family of new national debt and dollar devaluation in this stimulus. not a good deal — thomas massie (@repthomasmassie) march 26, 2020 the bill passed 96-0 in the senate on wednesday. have a tip we should know? [email protected] filed under: donald trumpthomas massie follow mediaite: « previous postnext post » « previous postnext post » joe depaolo - senior editor joe depaolo is a senior editor at mediaite. email him here: [email protected] follow him on twitter: @joe_depaolo more stories by joe depaolo tips have a tip or story idea? email us. or to keep it anonymous, click here. most popular fox’s martha maccallum calls out kellyanne conway after she blasts nyc mayor for stalled coronavirus response: what about trump’s? trump ripped over ‘congratulations america!’ tweet amid coronavirus pandemic: ‘people are dying’ trump goes off on the press at coronavirus briefing: ‘people in your profession write fake news, you do, she does…’ steven mnuchin calls record unemployment claims ‘not relevant’ on cnbc ‘oh my god, the universe is collapsing!’: bernie snark bombs gop sens. holding up stimulus over extra unemployment benefits you may also like: trump hits governors criticizing federal gov’t coronavirus response: ‘if they don’t treat you right, i don’t call’ by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 6:56 pm fox’s gutfeld rips hillary coronavirus tweet: ‘i’d say she should rot in hell but i think she’s already there’ by zachary petrizzomar 27th, 2020, 6:34 pm good news: u.s. animal shelters report rise in applications amid coronavirus outbreak by leia idlibymar 27th, 2020, 6:23 pm watch live: trump and coronavirus task force hold press briefing by zachary petrizzomar 27th, 2020, 5:19 pm breaking: trish regan out at fox business network by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 5:02 pm trump invokes defense production act to require gm to produce ventilators by josh feldmanmar 27th, 2020, 4:34 pm © 2020 mediaite, llc about us advertise newsletter privacy user agreement ethics & diversity policy contact rss dan abrams, founder