the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop news in brief trump urges loosening cdc restrictions to let coronavirus get to work you may also like politics trump announces plan to retrain nation’s 3 million unemployed americans as human ventilators 42 minutes ago politics what’s in congress’ coronavirus stimulus bill today 2:19pm politics congress sets aside $1,200 in trust for each american until they prove they’re responsible enough to handle it yesterday 11:00am more from g/o media read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running read on deal alert: the federal government is cutting you a $1,200 stimulus check that you can, and should, spend exclusively on 75 copies of ‘stardew valley’ subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe tuesday 12:55pm • see more: donald trump donald trumpcoronavirusnewsvol 56 issue 12 washington—calling for an end to precautions such as social distancing and shelter-in-place mandates, president donald trump urged the loosening of cdc restrictions tuesday to let covid-19 get to work. “the economy is hurting—we must send the coronavirus back into our office buildings, schools, and factories,” said trump, explaining that the nation cannot risk the possibility of the number of new cases and deaths crashing. “we need those numbers up! this is america, and work is important here. without work, the virus has no purpose. right now, there are millions of virus particles just sitting around and doing nothing. the coronavirus wants to work, so we’re going to put it back to work as soon as possible.” at press time, the dow had skyrocketed as the coronavirus returned in full strength back into the american workforce. advertisement share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion increasingly unhinged melissa clark instructs ‘new york times’ readers how to make pizza from old cardboard box 10 photos of plus-size models we deserve a pat on the back for running british man astounded to hear how much it would cost to get mustard jar removed from rectum under u.s. healthcare system u.s. economy grinds to halt as nation realizes money just a symbolic, mutually shared illusion share tweet