australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/27/2020 16:22 edt | updated 43 minutes ago trump orders gm to produce ventilators, invoking defense production act the memorandum directed at general motors comes as hospitals say they'll need more ventilators to weather the coronavirus pandemic. by lydia o'connor, huffpost us president donald trump reversed course friday and announced that he’s ordering general motors to produce ventilators needed by hospitals during the coronavirus pandemic. trump took action under the defense production act, a 1950 law that gives the president legal power over industrial production, and signed a memorandum “to require general motors to accept, perform, and prioritize federal contracts for ventilators.” “our negotiations with gm regarding its ability to supply ventilators have been productive, but our fight against the virus is too urgent to allow the give-and-take of the contracting process to continue to run its normal course,” trump said in a statement. “gm was wasting time. today’s action will help ensure the quick production of ventilators that will save american lives.” trump signed an executive order allowing for use of the dpa last week, but he has largely resisted pleas for him to use it. he said last weekend that the private sector was already stepping up to make products in low supply ― ventilators, portable x-ray devices, covid-19 test reagents, masks and gowns ― and that using the dpa would be akin to socialism. “we’re getting what we need without putting the heavy hand of government down,” he said at a press briefing sunday. governors struggling to acquire ventilators for their states have urged trump to address the shortage. “we need the product now,” new york gov. andrew cuomo (d) said sunday. “we have cries from hospitals around the state. i’ve spoken to governors around the country, and they’re in the same situation.” others have said the companies they’ve contacted for supplies are selling units to other countries first. “i’m competing with countries outside the united states to get things that we need,” illinois gov. j.b. pritzker (d) said monday at a press conference. this is a developing story. please check back for updates. a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic trump rejects new york’s desperate plea for ventilators what you need to know about at-home coronavirus test kits how to file for unemployment if you’ve been laid off avoiding going to the store? here’s how to order groceries online. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction lydia o'connor reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus general motors ventilator defense production act of 1950 trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.