editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime trump claims ny doesn’t need 30k ventilators despite doctors saying so president donald trump shrugs while speaking in the oval office on december 11, 2018. (photo by mark wilson/getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 8:09 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. in his ongoing campaign to play down the covid-19 outbreak, president donald trump on thursday night tried to cast doubt on the ventilator shortage crisis in new york hospitals. trump claimed during an interview with fox news host sean hannity that new york gov. andrew cuomo’s (d) request for an additional 30,000 ventilators was overblown. “i don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators,” the president told hannity. “you go into major hospitals sometimes and they’ll have two ventilators,” he continued. “and now all of a sudden they’re saying ‘can we order 30,000 ventilators?'” trump piggybacked that comment with yet another push for americans to go back to work as soon as possible despite medical professionals’ emphasis on social distancing to prevent further spread of the coronavirus. “so it’s a very bad situation, we haven’t seen anything like it but the end result is we’ve got to get back to work,” trump said. “and i think we can start by opening up certain parts of the country.” in reality, numerous health care workers have sounded the alarm over the shortage of ventilators, which are critical to combating the deadly virus. dr. colleen smith, an emergency room doctor at elmhurst hospital center in queens, new york, told the new york times that her hospital had only received five ventilators one day. “unless people die, i suspect we’ll be back to needing to beg for ventilators again in another day or two,” she said. watch trump below: trump downplays the number of ventilators needed in new york amid covid-19: "i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators." pic.twitter.com/anmxoy4wiu — tpm livewire (@tpmlivewire) march 27, 2020 cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19donald trumptv clip more in news 36 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 37 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 40 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy