australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news latest news housing good news explainers world meanwhile in canada alberta british columbia coronavirus politics justin trudeau andrew scheer jagmeet singh elizabeth may ontario politics doug ford us politics 'follow-up' podcast business real estate work recalls basic income precariously taxed unfriendly skies money hacks life lifestyle news health relationships how-to identity style food & drink home born and raised 'navigating' royals gift guides this could help travel parents news you can use self-care how-to real talk 'life after birth' dad life parents voices royal kids perspectives personal opinion how to pitch to huffpost hometown voices video podcasts 'follow-up' 'born & raised' news for google home/alexa follow us terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video australia brasil canada españa france ελλάδα (greece) india italia 日本 (japan) 한국 (korea) québec (en français) united kingdom united states canada edition close news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video politics 03/26/2020 23:06 edt | updated 4 hours ago trump rejects new york’s plea for ventilators: ‘i don’t believe you need’ that many “i have a feeling," the president told fox news as the coronavirus continues to spread around the country. by nick visser marina fang, huffpost us president donald trump rejected calls from new york’s governor that the state needed tens of thousands of new ventilators to treat a mass of patients infected with the novel coronavirus, saying he didn’t believe those numbers were accurate. “i have a feeling that a lot of the numbers that are being said in some areas are just bigger than they’re going to be,” trump told fox news’ sean hannity on thursday night. “i don’t believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators. you know, you go into major hospitals sometimes, they’ll have two ventilators. and now all of a sudden they’re saying can we order 30,000 ventilators?” he added: “look, it’s a very bad situation. we haven’t seen anything like it, but the end result is we’ve got to get back to work, and i think we can start by opening up certain parts of the country.” trump on new york’s ventilator needs for the coronavirus outbreak: "i don't believe you need 40,000 or 30,000 ventilators. you know, you go into major hospitals sometimes, they'll have two ventilators. and now all of a sudden they're saying can we order 30,000 ventilators?" pic.twitter.com/wmuolkagzk — jm rieger (@riegerreport) march 27, 2020 the president’s statements came as public health officials declared the united states the leading country in terms of coronavirus cases with more than 81,300 infected. more than 1,000 people have been killed by the virus, many in new york, which has the worst outbreak in the nation. new york gov. andrew cuomo (d) responded friday by saying the numbers were based on facts, not a belief or a feeling. “i don’t operate on opinion. i operate on facts, data, projections,” cuomo said at his daily press conference, explaining the numbers are based on projections from public health experts. “all the projections say you could have an apex of 40,000 ventilators,” he said. “make the decisions based on the data and the science.” “i hope we don’t need the 30,000 ventilators,” cuomo added. he said he wished there’d be “some natural weather change” that would wipe out the virus, apparently referring to trump’s spurious suggestion last month that the virus would simply disappear as the weather gets warmer. “but that’s my hope, that’s my emotion,” cuomo said. “the numbers say you may need 30,000.” cuomo had warned thursday that the state’s hospitals could soon be overwhelmed with patients afflicted with the covid-19 disease, noting more than 5,200 people had been hospitalized, including 1,290 in intensive care. on tuesday cuomo said the federal emergency management agency was sending 400 ventilators after he warned that the state needed thousands more to deal with an impending “apex” of its infection rate that he estimated would take place in a few weeks. “what am i going to do with 400 ventilators when i need 30,000?” cuomo said at a news conference at manhattan’s javits center, which is being turned into a makeshift hospital to treat new yorkers. “you want a pat on the back for sending 400 ventilators? you’re missing the magnitude of the problem.” trump later said 4,000 additional ventilators would be sent to new york’s hospital system, but he blasted the governor’s leadership, saying he had a chance to buy the machines in 2015 but “turned it down.” cuomo has ordered that 7,000 more be purchased but warned it’s still not nearly enough. the state approved a plan to allow two patients to share one ventilator if needed as infections grow more dire. the president has been insistent that the country can soon “open up” after many states have urged residents to self-isolate and socially distance in their communities to halt the spread of the virus. he’s pushed the easter holiday weekend as his deadline, despite warnings from health officials that doing so could spell disaster. “i think we can open up sections, quadrants, keep them going until the whole country’s opened up,” trump told hannity on thursday. “the people want to get back to work. they want to get back.” a huffpost guide to coronavirus stay up to date with our live blog as we cover the covid-19 pandemic why trump is wrong to compare coronavirus to the flu how to file for unemployment if you've been laid off got anxiety? here are 6 cheap mental health resources. what to do if you live with someone with covid-19 12 zoom hacks for work meetings and virtual happy hours how to get the most out of the weekend despite coronavirus the huffpost guide to working from home what coronavirus questions are on your mind right now? we want to help you find answers. suggest a correction nick visser senior reporter, huffpost marina fang reporter, huffpost more: donald trump coronavirus covid-19 andrew cuomo ventilator trending duke & duchess of sussex have moved from van. island to l.a.: report the many reasons not to wear a bra during self-isolation pm promises 75% wage subsidy for small, medium businesses rocked by covid-19 bank of canada drops rates, says this is lowest they can go ontario teen faked covid-19 to get out of mcdonald’s shift: police boris johnson tests positive for covid-19 subscribe and follow politics get the top stories emailed every day. newsletters may offer personalized content or advertisements. privacy policy newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later twitter facebook instagram flipboard videos diy face masks aren't effective against covid-19 other pandemics didn't crash the economy. this chart shows why covid-19 is different halifax's evolve fitness starts coronavirus fundraiser for other small businesses famous canadians unite to share trudeau's covid-19 message the best free video conferencing apps to make self-isolation more bearable 'we need to get away from each other': doctor makes frank plea to canadians prince william and kate middleton will be home-schooling their kids, too 'pandemic bangs' are the new at-home chic subscribe to the politics newsletter please enter a valid email address thank you for signing up! you should receive an email to confirm your subscription shortly. there was a problem processing your signup; please try again later news coronavirus politics business life parents perspectives video advertise with us faq user agreement (updated) privacy (updated) comment policy about us about our ads copyright © 2020 thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. "the huffington post" is a registered trademark of thehuffingtonpost.com, inc. all rights reserved. part of huffpost news using a mobile device? go to https://m.huffingtonpost.ca/ for huffpost mobile.