turkey feathers search hello and welcome to my little corner of the crafty blogasphere. my name is vicki haninger and i blog about home*craft and everyday adventures from the heart of the valley in the pacific northwest. recent posts a tisket a tasket mid-winter sewing sale hearts and flowers 2020 patternbee embroidery sale delight in the details a doll's christmas treasures little boys miniature christmas bedroom a merry little christmas wish silent night holiday finery categories aprons & smocks bags & totes dollhouse bakery embroidery everyday adventures fabric finds felt craft free patterns & tutorials fun & games garden love gifts & swaps handmade dolls home & craft sewing knitting & crochet miniatures quilts shop talk & other biz show & tell someone's in the kitchen state flower quilt project tea & chat vintage treasures see more archives february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 march 2019 more... subscribe to this blog's feed © vicki haninger 2005-2019 a tisket a tasket as each day brings us a little closer to spring i've been having a little fun over here . . . behold the latest creations from the workshop. actually, these miniature "green and yellow spring baskets" are a collaborative of three pairs of hands; mine and my two daughters. i made the baskets, the boxed candy and that shiny gold foil egg; grace made the chocolate bunnies and ginger made the tiny colored easter eggs. there are only six baskets in all, three of each color. if you need one for your dollhouse or room diorama, or your special dolly friend, or for any reason that makes you happy---they are over here at the dainty house. more sweetness...my miniature easter wreath for sale here at meadowsweet workshop. if needle and thread are calling...i've got an adorable vintage easter vogart embroidery transfer (reprint) from 1964 over here, and a 'new addition' celebrating birthday's here. enjoy! february 25, 2020 in embroidery, miniatures, shop talk & other biz | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this mid-winter sewing sale hello friends! just popping in for a quick shop announcement: my fabulous mid-winter sewing sale has begun over here. this is a great time of year to start on those spring and summer sewing projects; so dust off your sewing machine and take a look. i still have a variety of children's costume patterns left as well, cute pinafore aprons and fancy dresses for special occasions. misses sizes for casual wear. these are mostly "vintage" from my personal collection and i like to think, more classic styles than dated. they will be 25% off until march 15th. for extra savings, spend $25 and get a $5 discount with coupon code: pumpkin5. orders of $35 or more ship free! well, that about wraps it up here. remember monday is a postal holiday--no outgoing shipments until tuesday! february 15, 2020 in shop talk & other biz | permalink | comments (1) | | digg this hearts and flowers it's time for another update and in keeping with my new year's resolution to keep making happy little things...i'm right on target. my 6th scale valentine doll house decorations are complete. so fun to make. it was really cold with snow flurries all weekend and i just got into a groove crafting, watching old movies, nibbling and sipping tea. before i knew it, i had a wonderful stash of them. these tiny old-fashioned tussie mussies (or nose-gays) came out especially cute! it seems i may have been listening to my inner child by attempting to create a bit of tasha tudor make-believe magic as they do so remind me of her aesthetic. i guess i was in the zone. next came these fancy paper heart envelopes. because a gal's gotta have something to keep her love letters and valentine cards in doesn't she? and of course, iconic conversation heart candies are a must. all these sweet happy little things are available (while they last) from grace's miniature shop the dainty house. she's just added some adorable heart cakes, pastries and cookies as well. and also more of her adorable tiny donuts from the doll house bakery. january 16, 2020 in miniatures | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this 2020 patternbee embroidery sale some wee winter projects are underway and soon to be revealed. this having to do with miniatures and certain delightful dainty shops and valentine's day treats and sweet surprises . . . . a sneak peek is coming soon. in the meantime, i'm celebrating 2020 with a 20% sale on selected vintage embroidery reprints in my new etsy shop patternbee embroidery. since i really can't do sales on my own website, grace suggested i use the etsy platform. so i'm doing a trial run. will see how it goes. i'm actually kept quite busy as it is and have to frequently remind myself that this is just a hobby. funny how these things tend to flourish into full blown endeavors. happily so, but still time consuming. so, if you're in a stitchy mood and happen to love vintage vogart embroidery patterns, i've selected a few of my favorites to kick off with. plus a few random christmas patterns, in case you want to get a running start. enjoy! january 08, 2020 in shop talk & other biz | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this delight in the details just popping in for a few seconds to say hello and happy new year! and to show you these adorable felt bird ornaments ginger made for my tabletop bird tree. i'm absolutely delighted with them. the tiny details are amazing. i still have no idea how she managed to keep these a secret project until christmas morning. anyway, i thought you'd enjoy seeing them--they are such happy little things. my new year's resolution: keep making happy little things! january 02, 2020 in felt craft | permalink | comments (3) | | digg this a doll's christmas treasures per my request, miss icy angela got a new toy poodle and a sweet gingerbread boy for christmas, compliments of ginger and her amazing talents with needle and thread. these are just too cute! i can't help it, i'm just a kid at heart. december 30, 2019 in felt craft, miniatures | permalink | comments (2) | | digg this little boys miniature christmas bedroom christmas day has come and gone for another year, but the memories and spirit will live on in our hearts . . . and of course, our doll house displays! i had fun decorating the "little boys" miniature bedroom this season. i'd made the train table set last christmas for this room and was pleased with how it all came together. i found the table and dresser at the 'dollar store' (for one dollar each!) and painted them minty green. the built-in cupboard/bookcase was a doorway that i closed off separating two bedrooms--the girly pink bedroom is on the other side. click to enlarge view here's the bedroom so far, with temporary chair and table for effect. these two pieces actually belong in another room; i'm thinking about making a toy box filled with tiny treasures to go right here, front and center. the hamster habitat got a few upgrades too. that tiny silhouette picture way in the back, up on the shelf, was handmade by a talented lady (sorry i don't have her name at hand), who was at the seattle/tukwila miniature doll show that we visited earlier this year. there will be another doll show there this coming march 2020; details on the website. december 26, 2019 in miniatures | permalink | comments (2) | | digg this a merry little christmas wish hello friends! i hope you enjoyed the blog walk-through of the vintage mall this past week. when i go back and look at my pictures i always notice more details than when i was standing there. i thought this repurposed baby buggy--to rolling serving cart--was brilliant. naturally the little deer caught my eye first. those tall candle sticks look like they may have been part of an old staircase balustrade. what a great way to breathe new life into relics of the past. well, the house is full and its getting pretty busy around here. i've got pie in the oven and a turkey yet to roast. just wanted to wish everyone a warm wonderful holiday and a most merry christmas! enjoy! december 25, 2019 in vintage treasures | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this silent night december 24, 2019 in vintage treasures | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this holiday finery december 23, 2019 in vintage treasures | permalink | comments (0) | | digg this next » my etsy shop my vintage embroidery shop free stuff! find 100's of reprinted vintage embroidery transfers! sweet little things my indie books embroidery craft: stitching through the seasons stitching projects blanket statement: one thrifted wool blanket repurposed into 40+ projects download pdf pattern my projects embroidery craft: stitching through the seasons blanket statement: one thrifted wool blanket repurposed into 40+ projects state flower quilt show state flower quilt list state flower quilt project