content marketing world is part of the informa connect division of informa plc informa plc about us investor relations talent this site is operated by a business or businesses owned by informa plc and all copyright resides with them. informa plc’s registered office is 5 howick place, london sw1p 1wg. registered in england and wales. number 3099067. articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip about us email updates contact us articles resources featured white papers original cmi ebooks careers research custom research research insights topics video and visual social media seo audience building strategy content creation industry news measurement and roi teams and process content distribution events webinars content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards training consulting magazine podcast directory content vips emma, a cmi content vip scribblelive, a cmi content vip sitecore, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip turtl, a cmi content vip turtl helps you publish content people want to read. our software allows anyone to create premium interactive content without the need for design or coding skills, and track engagement in detail. designed for data-driven businesses who want to create more value through their content, turtl uniquely combines psychology with interactive content creation and analytics capabilities. quick guide: no events? no problem there are some things you just can’t plan for – like an event marketing sized hole in your pipeline. we at turtl put together a guide on how to operate in a world without events and still hit your mql and growth targets. read on for the best creative ideas and tips from fellow marketing teams, because we’re all in this together. read the guide how to measure content performance get to grips with measurement, from setting objectives to scoring results. our guide covers the 5 questions you should ask to set content objectives, example metrics for across the journey, how to analyze your data, and more. read the guide free email course: 30 days to unforgettable content level up your marketing content with this email-based course. you’ll get daily insights, grounded in cognition and psychology, that you can apply right away. you’ll love this course if you’re a forward-thinking marketer with a growth mindset, and you care about creating content that gets read, not just published. start the course back to cmi content vips blog articles authors comment policy blogging guidelines sharing and republishing events cmi events content marketing world contenttech summit cmi master class content marketing awards webinars #cmworld twitter chat education content marketing university cmi research cco magazine white paper/ebooks consulting podcasts about cmi about us our team media room contact us sponsorship/advertise what is content marketing? joe pulizzi, founder the orange effect foundation discover more from content marketing institute content marketing world contenttech summit content marketing awards content marketing university working with us contact us about us advertisers/exhibitors follow content marketing institute on social home cookies privacy terms copyright © 2020 informa plc informa uk limited is a company registered in england and wales with company number 1072954 whose registered office is 5 howick place, london, sw1p 1wg. vat gb365462636. informa uk limited is part of informa plc. this site uses cookies to provide you with the best user experience possible. by using content marketing institute, you accept our use of cookies. i agree