skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search tutorial home » tutorial top 13 wordpress caching plugins to make your wordpress website faster march 17, 2020 aigars silkalns plugins, tutorial 32 comments your internet experience is only as fast as the websites you visit. typically, the best websites are also the ones with the quickest load times. a slow website makes for a terrible user experience, and let's not forget the impact that… read more→ 28 web design lead generation tips december 23, 2019 lana miro tutorial 0 comments initially, lead generation is a smart method of getting inquiries from potential customers. this is a working way to get prospects engaged. business people used to use lead generation long before the appearance of digital marketing, e.g., trade shows or… read more→ wordpress gutenberg tutorial on how to create a custom website using blocks november 18, 2019 joe tutorial 0 comments this is a wordpress gutenberg tutorial written by web developers who have significant experience in creating wordpress websites using its new block editor. in this guide, we will show you how to create a complex website which will include content… read more→ how to start a food blog today with wordpress – beginner’s guide november 18, 2019 joe fylan tutorial 2 comments do you have a succulently delicious recipe that you’d like to share with the world? or perhaps, maybe you’d like to become a better cook and want to chronicle your journey online; either way building a website to share your… read more→ how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress november 15, 2019 joe fylan tutorial 7 comments most of the time wordpress runs like a well-oiled machine – causing very few problems. every now and then, something strange happens. sending you on a wild goose chase, desperate to figure out the cause of the problem and get… read more→ how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners november 3, 2019 aigars silkalns tutorial 223 comments trying to figure out how to create a website? today you will find out! an easy step-by-step website setup guide written by web developers who have created hundreds of websites and helped thousands of others to create their own website.… read more→ how do blogs and websites make money online? monetize your blog for maximum revenue. october 30, 2019 aigars silkalns tutorial 35 comments wondering how do websites make money? you are about to find out! there are a lot, i mean a lot of ways to make money with a blog or a website. if you are wondering how you are going to… read more→ how to create a directory in wordpress september 26, 2019 aigars tutorial 0 comments wanting to build a directory listing similar to yelp, zomato, or foursquare is not that far-fetched. in fact, even competing with such big names is not really out of the question. with big name directories tending to focus on a… read more→ how to setup a wordpress newsletter with mailchimp september 17, 2019 sourav tutorial 1 comment mailchimp is one of the very best newsletter software on the planet. it’s extremely easy to use and has tons of customization features. mailchimp enables you to create highly engaging newsletters with stunning visuals, launch a variety of campaigns and… read more→ how to print screen on a mac, 6 different ways to capture screenshot on a mac september 13, 2019 aigars tutorial 31 comments if you googled "how to do print screen on a mac" it means that you recently have switched from windows to a shiny mac and have no idea where to find "print screen" button which is present on most keywords… read more→ how to build a multilingual wordpress website – a step-by-step guide for beginners august 16, 2019 aigars tutorial 0 comments a step by step guide written by web developers who have built thousands of multilingual wordpress websites and helped hundreds of thousands of others create their own. 6 reasons why you’ll love this multilingual website guide beginner-friendly - even if… read more→ how to build a directory website with wordpress – a step by step guide july 12, 2019 joe tutorial 0 comments there are so many tutorials and plugins that promise to help you build a directory website with wordpress that it can be difficult to decide where to begin. that’s why we created this step by step guide on how to… read more→ list of top free css3, jquery & html5 search form examples and tutorials 2019 july 3, 2019 aigars snippets, tutorial 3 comments a search box is one of the prime components of website that define and enhance the user interface of a website. undoubtedly, a search form is a much needed component of a well-structured website to enhance its usability among the… read more→ 28 photoshop tutorials for creating a logo design 2019 june 28, 2019 alex ivanovs tutorial 5 comments your brand logo is going to be one of the most important assets of your online presence. a logo is something that people remember you by, and if you manage to accumulate enough reputation, people will begin to use and… read more→ 17 tutorials on how to create a wordpress theme 2019 march 4, 2019 alex ivanovs tutorial 4 comments we at colorlib know a thing or two about creating unique and successful wordpress themes, our own custom-built theme library consists of 8 themes already, and we're working around the clock to increase this amount, while juggling things like customer… read more→ comprehensive backup solutions for wordpress to keep your data safe 2019 march 2, 2019 vishnu tutorial 4 comments a ton of effort and a great deal of thought goes into building a website. and you never want to lose any of it, right ? even the small update that you may have made just yesterday ? websites are… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 page 4 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×