u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost entertainment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition tv & film amazon prime disney game of thrones netflix marie kondo a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died sad news is coming for direwolf fans. by bill bradley anthony fauci hits younger people with a stark coronavirus reality check the infectious diseases expert dispelled a key myth about the covid-19 infections. by ed mazza jim carrey casts trump in the movie of his nightmares “he has fully become the mayor from jaws,” the actor-artist said of his latest coronavirus-themed cartoon featuring the president. by lee moran trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad ridley scott rips 'nutcase' trump's coronavirus response the legendary director said there are “very few worthwhile” politicians. by lee moran ‘doctor who’ star jodie whittaker issues uplifting psa we need right now in the "emergency transmission," the doctor revealed the five ways she deals with any worrying situation. by lee moran newsletter sign up wondering what to watch tonight? subscribe to our streamline email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. trump campaign threatens tv stations that air ad critical of president not removing the ad about rising u.s. coronavirus cases “could put your station’s license in jeopardy,” the trump campaign warned. by david moye blake shelton is rocking a 'quarantine mullet' as a 'symbol of hope' now the country singer-songwriter's new 'do is drawing comparisons to joe exotic, the subject of netflix's "tiger king." by curtis m. wong 'contagion' stars reunite for covid-19 psa winslet says in her psa: “wash your hands like your life depends on it. because right now, in particular, it just might.” by ap evangeline lilly apologizes for previously dismissing covid-19 warnings the actress said on instagram that she was sorry for remarks she made about the coronavirus that were "dismissive, arrogant and cryptic." by david moye pink uses quarantine time to give herself a haircut after drinking the pop superstar jokingly compared herself with alyssa milano and charlize theron after revealing a fresh, if amateur-looking, buzz cut. by curtis m. wong 'masked singer' unmasks t-rex, and she's no dinosaur (spoiler) the costumed celebrity competition has been whittled down to the super nine. by ron dicker senate coronavirus stimulus includes arts funding despite gop dismissing it as frivolous some smaller arts institutions may not survive the economic effects of prolonged closures as the covid-19 pandemic continues to worsen. by marina fang jussie smollett marks 'quarantine day 421' with cryptic instagram video the former "empire" star sang a stevie wonder hit while alluding to the date he claimed to have been attacked in a racist and anti-lgbtq hate crime. by curtis m. wong meghan markle is teaming up with disney for her first post-royal project you can stream the duchess of sussex's new movie on april 3. by carly ledbetter michael rapaport drops 24 f-bombs in angry rant against coronavirus revelers "this nice guy s**t? it’s done," the actor warned in his own take on a coronavirus pandemic psa. by ed mazza in 'more,' indie pop singer kris kelly wrestles with 7 deadly sins personified the video, from the 2019 album "runaways," is about those who escape themselves "through drugs, alcohol, boys [and] sex,” he said. by curtis m. wong chrissy teigen's social distancing while crowdsourcing for lettuce was perfect the "lip sync battle" host's banana bread swap with comedian chris klemens adhered to coronavirus pandemic protocol. by curtis m. wong new movies and shows on netflix, and what's leaving "the matrix" trilogy, "the hangover" and "taxi driver" join the streaming service. by todd van luling elton john to host celeb-packed tv, radio concert as coronavirus antidote alicia keys, billie eilish, mariah carey, the backstreet boys, tim mcgraw and billie joe armstrong are scheduled to take part in the event airing sunday on fox tv. by ap jim carrey hits trump with nsfw coronavirus cartoon trump is handling "the important tissues” in carrey’s taunting new artwork. by lee moran newsletter sign up wondering what to watch tonight? subscribe to our streamline email. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost entertainment. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.