kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about tv see also... video trailers movies books music food remix pbs netflix media diet david chang travel interviews fred rogers crime stream ken burns’ baseball documentary series for free on pbs posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 it would have been opening day for baseball here in the us. since we’re without the actual thing due to covid-19, ken burns asked pbs to allow people to stream his 18-hour documentary series on baseball from 1994 for free (us & canada). here’s part one: (via open culture) more about... baseball ken burns pbs sports tv video ads via carbon trailer for season 2 of ugly delicious posted by jason kottke feb 25, 2020 chef david chang, who i guess is in the process of being not a chef now in the way that bourdain became not a chef, is back for season 2 of ugly delicious, a food/travel/culture show on netflix. from eater: like the first season, this one promises to “use food as a vehicle to break down cultural barriers, tackle misconceptions and uncover shared experiences,” per a press release. the four episodes — only half the number of episodes as season 1 — will focus on food made for babies and children (“kids’ menu”), the vast world of indian food (“don’t call it curry”), the appeal and mystique of steak (“steak”), and the varied cuisines that encompass what’s generalized as “middle eastern” cooking (“as the meat turns”). i really liked season 1 of this show and i am not going to lie, i would love to somehow be involved in season 3. david, i have a passport, love to eat, and can talk about *gestures around at website* almost anything. hit me up! more about... david chang food trailers travel tv video frontline - amazon empire: the rise and reign of jeff bezos posted by jason kottke feb 20, 2020 from pbs’s frontline comes amazon empire: the rise and reign of jeff bezos, a feature-length documentary investigation into amazon and its founder. jeff bezos is not only the richest man in the world, he has built a business that is without precedent in the history of american capitalism. his power to shape everything from the future of work to the future of commerce to the future of technology is unrivaled. as politicians and regulators around the world start to consider the global impact of amazon — and how to rein in bezos’ power — frontline investigates how he executed a plan to build one of the most influential economic and cultural forces in the world. one of the 10 key takeaways from the film is how deliberately amazon attacked the publishing industry: “amazon took over a large market share of the publishing industry very, very fast,” james marcus, a former senior amazon.com editor, tells frontline — a situation that he says prompted publishers to realize, “‘oh, wait a minute, they’re our partner, but they now have the beginnings of a boot on our windpipe’.” inside the company, the team had launched a strategy that some called “the gazelle project,” because they’d heard bezos wanted them to pursue publishers the way a cheetah pursues a sickly gazelle. “well, you don’t go after the strongest,” randy miller, who ran the european book team, says of the strategy. “he’s like, ‘the cheetah. the cheetah looks for the weak, looks for the sick, looks for the small.’” that way, by the time it comes to take on the publishers at the top, “the noise has gotten back to them. they’re going to know this is coming, and chances are you may be able to settle that without a full-on war.” here’s a trailer but the whole thing is available online, embedded above and on youtube. more about... amazon jeff bezos pbs tv video how miles davis made “kind of blue” posted by jason kottke feb 20, 2020 from the feature-length documentary miles davis: birth of the cool that’s debuting on pbs’s american masters next week, this is a short clip about how miles’ masterpiece, kind of blue, came together in the studio. miles davis didn’t provide sheet music for his musicians during the recording of his iconic album “kind of blue.” he said that “i didn’t write out the music for ‘kind of blue.’ but brought in sketches ‘cause i wanted a lot of spontaneity in the playing.” here’s the trailer and a couple of other clips from the film. (via @tedgioia) more about... miles davis miles davis: birth of the cool movies pbs trailers tv video normal people tv series posted by jason kottke jan 28, 2020 the bbc and hulu are producing a 12-part tv series based on sally rooney’s book normal people (which i excerpted here). the first trailer is above and i have to say, color me intrigued. (via the recently relaunched recs) more about... books normal people sally rooney trailers tv video darth costanza posted by jason kottke jan 27, 2020 the premise is pretty simple and there’s no need to oversell it because you can imagine what this is going to sound like going in and it delivers perfectly: george costanza’s father’s voice dubbed over darth vader’s dialogue in star wars. serenity now! (quickly: luke = jerry, han = george, leia = elaine, chewie = kramer. does that even work? (obi-wan = uncle leo? is 3po newman?)) more about... movies remix seinfeld star wars tv video pandemic - how to prevent an outbreak posted by jason kottke jan 23, 2020 with the wuhan coronavirus in the news, this is a timely release from netflix: pandemic is a 6-part series on the inevitable worldwide disease outbreak and what’s being done to stop it, or at least to mitigate its effects. more about... medicine netflix trailers tv video dozens of classic interviews from the dick cavett show posted by jason kottke jan 20, 2020 open culture’s josh jones takes us on a tour of the amazing youtube channel for the dick cavett show. the show ran from 1968 well into the 80s and cavett was known for having on big name guests and getting them to talk about important and interesting topics, making the show a more serious older sibling to the tonight show. jones says cavett “had a way of making everyone around him comfortable enough to reveal just a little more than they might otherwise”. the show’s youtube channel contains dozens and dozens of interview clips, including marlon brando talking about rejecting his best actor oscar for the godfather: some of the other videos feature john lennon on why the beatles ended, jimi hendrix talking about performing at woodstock, orson welles recounting a dinner with adolf hitler, janis joplin’s final tv interview, joni mitchell, jefferson airplane, and david crosby fresh off of their appearances at woodstock, robin williams on depression, and carly simon talks about stage fright. check out the post at open culture for more or cross-reference this wikipedia list of the show’s most memorable moments with the youtube videos. more about... dick cavett interviews josh jones tv video steven soderbergh’s media diet for 2019 posted by jason kottke jan 14, 2020 every year, director steven soderbergh publishes a list of the movies, books, tv series, short films, and short stories he’s watched and read over the course of the year (one of the inspirations for my media diet posts). for many creators, the key to making good work is to read and watch widely with an emphasis on quality — it’s difficult make great work if your ingredients are poor — so soderbergh’s 2019 list is a fascinating look at the director’s inputs for the next year’s creative endeavors. some observations: the pace here is incredible…2,3,4 movies in a day, several episodes of tv shows in a sitting. he didn’t watch star wars: rise of skywalker but did watch the kenobi fan film. he binged succession in three days. finishing fleabag took him more than a month. he watched marriage story and the irishman on the same day. one day he did a mini mike judge film festival: office space and idiocracy. i remember from past lists that he watches some movies over and over…that doesn’t seem to be the case this year. more about... books lists movies steven soderbergh tv the first and last time mister rogers sang “won’t you be my neighbor” on tv posted by jason kottke jan 14, 2020 including special shows, mister rogers’ neighborhood ran for 912 episodes and at the beginning of each one, rogers sang “won’t you be my neighbor?” while putting his sweater on and changing his shoes. in the video above, you can compare his rendition of the song from the first episode (february 19, 1968) and the final episode (august 31, 2001). it would take a significant effort (and might actually be impossible because he sings the song at a different pace each time), but i’d love to see someone cut together a version of this that features all 912 openings strung together chronologically, so you can see rogers get older as he sings (a la noah kalina’s everyday). the same youtube channel also edited together the first and last times rogers sang “good feeling”: (via open culture) more about... fred rogers music remix tv video mcmillions, an hbo documentary on the massive mcdonald’s monopoly scandal posted by jason kottke jan 13, 2020 in july 2018, i posted about the fbi investigation into the multi-million dollar mcdonald’s monopoly fraud. for years, jerry jacobson was in charge of the security of the game pieces for mcdonald’s monopoly, one of the most successful marketing promotions in the fast food giant’s history. and for almost as long, jacobson had been passing off winning pieces to family, friends, and “a sprawling network of mobsters, psychics, strip club owners, convicts, drug traffickers”, to the tune of more than million in cash & prizes. in early february, hbo is airing a five-part documentary series on the investigation called mcmillions: more about... crime food hbo mcdonald’s mcmillions trailers tv video my recent media diet, the late 2010s edition posted by jason kottke dec 30, 2019 every month or two for the past couple of years, i’ve shared the movies, books, music, tv, and podcasts i’ve enjoyed (or not) recently. here’s everything i’ve “consumed” since late october. uncut gems. watching this movie replicates very closely what it feels like to live in nyc (and not in a good way). this movie contains one of my favorite scenes of the year and sandler is a genius. (a) seduce and destroy with josh safdie, benny safdie & paul thomas anderson (a24 podcast). the best bits of this were fascinating but some of it was too inside baseball. listen to this after seeing uncut gems. (b+) the song of achilles by madeline miller. the iliad as a romance novel (of sorts). loved it. (a) hustlers. jennifer lopez did not require fancy cameras or the de-aging cgi of the irishman to make her look 20 years younger. (b+) the amazing adventures of kavalier & clay by michael chabon. such a great alchemy of subjects — kind of a miracle how it all works together. (a-) jesus is king. boring. christian hip hop isn’t any better than christian rock. born again kanye? i miss the old kanye… (c-) the dark crystal: age of resistance. wonderfully creative. a couple of really disturbing parts though for kids. (a-) the dark crystal. watched this after age of resistance and it holds up really well. (b+) tunes 2011-2019. gets better with every listen. (a-) the laundromat. soderbergh and streep? this should have been better. (b) the fifth season by n.k jemison. liked this but it didn’t make me want to immediately start the next book in the series. (b+) 21 lessons for the 21st century by yuval noah harari. lots to chew on in this one but i ultimately didn’t finish it. but that’s more on me than harari. (b+) david whyte: the conversational nature of reality (on being). “sometimes it takes darkness and the sweet / confinement of your aloneness / to learn / anything or anyone / that does not bring you alive / is too small for you.” whyte sounds like a fascinating person. (a-) star trek: deep space nine. re-watched the entire series over the past several months. strong in the middle seasons but not a great ending. (b+) the oj simpson trial (you’re wrong about…). excellent multi-part reexamination of the oj trial centered on the women, principally nicole brown simpson but also marcia clark and paula barbieri. it took me awhile to get used to the sometimes-too-casual banter about distressing subject matter, but their knowledge and discussion of the subject matter won me over. (a-) ad astra. the filmmakers couldn’t find a way to do this movie without the voiceover? just let pitt act…everything he says is obvious from his face. beautiful though. (b+) dead wake by erik larson. engaging account of the sinking of the lusitania, which eventually & circuitously led to the entry of the united states into world war i. (a-) the wonderful wizard of oz. this wasn’t my favorite book i’ve read with my kids. (b-) the devil next door. interesting story but i wanted more from this re: the nature of truth & evil. (b) the lighthouse. sunshine x fight club. (a-) ford v ferrari. driving home from the theater, it took every ounce of self-control not to put the pedal on the floor and see if my car can do 120 on a vermont county road. (a-) the crown (season 3). i didn’t like this quite much as the first two seasons, but i did like the overt and not-so-overt references to brexit. there was a low-stakes-ness to this season which fits with other exported british media (downton, british baking show) and the country’s rapidly dwindling status as a world power. (b+) menu mind control (gastropod). really interesting discussion of how menus are constructed to balance the needs of the restaurant and the desires of the diner. buckle up though…gastropod is one of the densest podcasts out there. (a-) a beautiful day in the neighborhood. a surprisingly trippy adaptation of one of my favorite magazine articles on fred rogers. hanks is great as usual. (b+) coco. another pixar gem. (a-) a table for two, please? (talk money). from a new podcast by my pal mesh — the first episode is about the business side of opening and running restaurants. (b+) knives out. from the hype this got, i was expecting a bit more than a good murder mystery but it was just a good murder mystery. (b+) marriage story. great performances all around, but jesus why did i watch this? it captures very well the feeling and experience of divorce. total ptsd trigger though. (d/a-) galatea. engaging short story by madeline miller. (b+) star wars: rise of skywalker. impossible at this point for anyone to objectively review the ninth movie in a series which in some ways has defined culture of the last 40 years. i loved it, even the hokey parts. (a) high life. not even sure what to say about this one. (b-) past installments of my media diet are available here. more about... books media diet movies music podcasts tv video embroidery of homer simpson disappearing into the bushes posted by jason kottke dec 27, 2019 move over, every other craft project — this homer simpson disappears into the bushes embroidery piece by rayna of hermit girl creations is the best embroidery in the history of the world. the scene is taken from a 1994 episode of the simpsons called homer loves flanders and has become a bit of a meme in recent years; here’s the clip: check out her instagram or etsy shop — she does a lot of other simpsons-based embroidery as well as charlie brown, the office, dr. seuss, frog & toad, stranger things, and futurama. looks like she takes commissions via instagram dm. more about... art the simpsons tv video fleabag: the scriptures posted by jason kottke dec 26, 2019 i am sorry this is too late to make my holiday gift guide, but i just found out it existed: fleabag: the scriptures consists of the scripts for both seasons of fleabag, the original stage directions for the play, and commentary from phoebe waller-bridge. her coat falls open. she only has her bra on underneath. she pulls out the little sculpture of the woman with no arms. it sits on her lap. two women. one real. one not. both with their innate femininity out. the book has been out since november. how am i just finding out about this now?! more about... books fleabag phoebe waller-bridge tv snl’s honest kids clothing ad posted by jason kottke dec 24, 2019 this saturday night live mock tv commercial for a macy’s holiday sale cuts right to the truth about buying clothes for kids that aren’t right for them or their parents. some of their deals include “40% off cozy corduroys that’ll pinch his little nuts”, “kids jackets that are so big & thick they won’t fit in their carseat anymore”, and “everyday savings on mittens they’ll lose, shirts with the wrong frozen princess, sweaters that make them hot”. more about... advertising parenting saturday night live tv video how the succession theme song was composed posted by jason kottke dec 16, 2019 sitting at a piano, composer nicholas britell explains how he came up with the theme music to succession. i’m constantly winding in these notes that aren’t part of the scale to just to kind of jolt the music in a different direction. so you see that things are always kind of off-kilter with themselves — like the family in the show. see also the succession theme works over any tv show title sequence. more about... music nicholas britell succession tv video rip carroll spinney, puppeteer of big bird and oscar the grouch posted by jason kottke dec 08, 2019 sad news from sesame street: carroll spinney, the puppeteer who played big bird and oscar the grouch for almost 50 years, died today at age 85. caroll was an artistic genius whose kind and loving view of the world helped shape and define sesame street from its earliest days in 1969 through five decades, and his legacy here at sesame workshop and in the cultural firmament will be unending. his enormous talent and outsized heart were perfectly suited to playing the larger-than-life yellow bird who brought joy to generations of children and countless fans of all ages around the world, and his lovably cantankerous grouch gave us all permission to be cranky once in a while. spinney had retired from the show last year, citing health concerns. here’s a look at how he operated the big bird puppet (more here): spinney came out with a book in 2003 called the wisdom of big bird (and the dark genius of oscar the grouch): lessons from a life in feathers and was the subject of a 2015 documentary called i am big bird. here’s a trailer: at sesame street creator jim henson’s memorial service at cathedral of st. john the divine after his unexpected death in 1990, spinney walked out and, in full big bird costume, sang “it ain’t easy being green” in tribute to his friend: total silence after he finished…i can’t imagine there was a dry eye in the house after that. rest in peace, gentle men. more about... carroll spinney obituaries sesame street tv video do kids today still like mister rogers? posted by jason kottke dec 02, 2019 fred rogers and his neighborhood may seem to belong to a bygone age of slow children’s media, but when mary pflum peterson introduced the show to her four children, she found that they engaged with the show like kids back in the 70s and 80s did. i asked my youngest two, as they obsessed over the fish, what was it about the show that appealed to them. after a beat, they gave me that look that parents will readily recognize, the one that best translates to “isn’t it obvious?” “he likes kids, mommy,” my daughter said. “kids know when a grown-up likes them.” “and he’s not too loud,” my son added. “when we watch him, there’s no noise. you don’t have to worry about anything.” kind and calm. so that explained everything. in a world of so much chaos and noise, kids liked calm sincerity. more about... fred rogers mary pflum peterson tv the most popular tv shows 1986-2019 posted by jason kottke dec 02, 2019 if you grew up watching tv (and who didn’t?), this bar chart race animation of the 10 most popular primetime tv shows from 1986-2019 is fascinating. ranking is based on the following factors: prime-time first 24 hours audience reports, one week of reported statistics for downloaded copies (pirated), one week of streaming services viewership. numbers are worldwide with significant bias towards us market up until 2002, afterwards it’s balanced by p2p distribution across the globe. i’d forgotten what a huge hit er was in the mid-90s. and note that the simpsons never cracked the top 10. ah, i didn’t notice that they snuck in briefly during 1996 — thx @chasingdom. (via waxy) more about... infoviz tv video spotlight and the difficulty of dramatizing good journalism posted by jason kottke nov 22, 2019 for the lastest episode of nerdwriter, evan puschak reviews the history of movies about journalism and shows how the makers of spotlight (and also all the president’s men) show the often repetitive and tedious work required to do good journalism i loved spotlight (and all the president’s men and the post), but i hadn’t realized until just now how many of my favorite movies and tv shows of the last few years are basically adult versions of richard scarry’s what do people do all day? speaking of, watching this video i couldn’t help but think that david simon1 faced a similar challenge in depicting effective police work in the wire. listening to wiretapped conversations, sitting on rooftops waiting for drug dealers to use payphones, and watching container ships unloading are not the most interesting thing in the world to watch. but through careful editing, some onscreen exposition by lester freamon, and major consequences, simon made pedestrian policing engaging and interesting, the heart of the show. puschak shared a quote from simon near the end of the video and spotlight director tom mccarthy played the dishonest reporter scott templeton in season five of the wire.↩ more about... evan puschak film school movies spotlight the wire tv video the succession theme works over any tv show title sequence posted by jason kottke nov 14, 2019 if you’re having withdrawals from succession, perhaps this will help a little. a fan created these title sequences of iconic tv shows with the pulsing succession theme song dubbed over them. the wire, the simpsons, and mad men are particular favorites of mine: the succession theme is to title sequences like what “christ, what an asshole!” is to new yorker cartoon captions — it even fits happy days (mostly): if you’d like to try your hand at this, the theme song is available on spotify. its composer, nicholas britell, also scored moonlight and if beale street could talk. more about... mad men music nicholas britell remix succession the simpsons the wire tv video the devil next door posted by jason kottke oct 29, 2019 here’s the trailer for a five-episode netflix series called the devil next door. the series is about john demjanjuk, who was living in the us when he was accused of being “ivan the terrible”, a particularly brutal guard at the treblinka death camp. born in ukraine, john (iwan) demjanjuk was the defendant in four different court proceedings relating to crimes that he committed while serving as a collaborator of the nazi regime. investigations of demjanjuk’s holocaust-era past began in 1975. proceedings in the united states twice stripped him of his american citizenship, ordered him deported once, and extradited him from the united states twice to stand trial on criminal charges, once to israel and once to germany. his trial in germany, which ended in may 2011, may be the last time that an accused nazi-era war criminal stands trial. if so, it would mark the culmination of a 65-year period of prosecutions that began with the international military tribunal at nuremberg in 1945. some facts of demjanjuk’s past are not in dispute. he was born in march 1920 in dobovi makharyntsi, a village in vinnitsa oblast of what was then soviet ukraine. conscripted into the soviet army, he was captured by german troops at the battle of kerch in may 1942. demjanjuk immigrated to the united states in 1952 and became a naturalized us citizen in 1958. he settled in seven hills, ohio, a suburb of cleveland, and worked for many years in a ford auto plant. the devil next door premieres november 4. more about... crime holocaust john demjanjuk nazis netflix the devil next door trailers tv video my recent media diet, decorative gourd edition posted by jason kottke oct 25, 2019 every month or two for the past couple of years, i’ve shared the movies, books, music, tv, and podcasts i’ve enjoyed (or not) recently. here’s everything i’ve “consumed” since last month. it’s a little light because i’ve been working and a full rewatch of the wire took some time. stuff in progress includes the wonderful wizard of oz (the kids and i are reading it together), the dark crystal: age of resistance, n.k. jemisin’s the fifth season, and the second season of abstract. the wire. over the past two months, i rewatched all 5 seasons of the wire. it very much holds up and is still the best tv show i’ve ever watched. season 4 in particular is fantastic and devastating. even season 5, which seemed a bit outlandish at the time with the serial killer plot, is great. (a+) downtown abbey. not great but it’s always nice spending some quality time with the crowley family. (b+) mario kart tour. there’s something deeply un-nintendo about this game. the use of all of the casino-like ios tricks to keep you playing (and hopefully spending money on in-game currency) runs counter to the dna of the company. $70 for 135 rubies is $20 more than the switch version of kart is going for right now on amazon — ridiculous. and remember that the original wii periodically suggested taking a break if you’d been playing for awhile? still, racing in mario kart is always fun. when they turn networked multiplayer on, it might be a game-changer. (b+) peanut butter falcon. feel-good? eh. more like heavy-handed treacle. and lebeouf’s character treats the kid with down syndrome like a normal person but is creepy and borderline abusive to a girl he likes? yuck. (c) succession. i hate that i love this show so much. (a) 1619. very good podcast, particularly the third episode about the birth of american music. (a-) transparent musicale finale. i was skeptical about watching a 2-hour musical to end the series, but i ended up liking it a lot. my god, that last song though… (b+) parasite. downton abbey a la bong joon ho. (a-) bottle rocket. rough but many of anderson’s trademarks are already on display here. (a-) diego maradona. another examination by asif kapadia (senna, amy) of how talent and fame can go wrong. (a-) kevin alexander on the beginning and end of america’s culinary revolution (house of carbs). listened on a rec from a friend because alexander’s book sounded interesting, but the bro-ness of the host is almost unbearable. what if the discussion about food was more like sports radio? no thank you. (c-) joker. the pre-release coverage of this movie being dangerous or problematic was mostly overblown. (b) the new moma. full review here. (a-) silence and the presence of everything (on being). really interesting interview with an acoustic ecologist. more here. (a-) the testaments. a sequel to the handmaid’s tale could have easily gone wrong. this very much did not. (a-) tonic. i used this for a few days but the recs weren’t great so i stopped. (c-) amazon go. a marvelous and unnerving experience for this law-abiding introvert. shopping without interaction was cool, but walking out without paying felt like shoplifting. (b+) machine hallucination. impressive display, like being immersed in an imax movie. but not sure it’s worth the $25 entry fee. (b) liberté, égalité and french fries (rough translation). how do we define work and community in the age of global mega-corporations? this story takes an amazing turn about 20 minutes in. (b+) past installments of my media diet are available here. more about... books media diet movies museums podcasts tv video succession’s preoccupation with the power of words (or lack thereof) posted by jason kottke oct 23, 2019 have you been watching succession? i feel bad about enjoying watching rich people be horrible to each other, but i do love the show. evan puschak rewatched both seasons with a careful eye and noticed the show’s preoccupation with language and how it is used and misused by the characters in the show. kendall: words are just nothing. complicated airflow. one of the things i like most about the show is that i can’t figure out whether it’s a comedy or a drama. it’s bitingly funny and satirical but the whole thing is packaged like a drama and there are genuine emotional moments. i felt the same way about fleabag and transparent…the combination and subversion of these two familiar buckets of storytelling is part of what makes all of these shows great. more about... evan puschak language succession tv video zach galifianakis’ brief stint at saturday night live posted by jason kottke oct 18, 2019 in this clip from a longer conversation in the off camera interview series, zach galifianakis talks about his brief two-week stint on saturday night live and how he felt when a sketch he wrote totally bombed at the cast table read. here are all 10 clips of the interview. see also robert downey jr. recounting his year-long snl career. more about... interviews saturday night live tv video zach galifianakis breakfast, lunch & dinner, david chang’s new netflix series posted by jason kottke oct 11, 2019 despite some reservations (a little too bro-y for one thing), i really enjoyed david chang’s netflix series ugly delicious. so i’m happy to see that he’s got a new series coming out called breakfast, lunch & dinner. the trailer: in this one, he’s traveling the world with some non-food celebs: he hits los angeles with lena waithe, marrakesh with chrissy teigen, phnom penh with kate mckinnon, and vancouver with seth rogen. will watch. more about... david chang food trailers travel tv video a dreaming octopus changes color posted by jason kottke sep 26, 2019 curious about the social behaviors of cephalopods, marine biologist david scheel brought an octopus named heidi home to live with him and his teenaged daughter. in this clip from an upcoming pbs show called octopus: making contact, you can see the octopus changing colors while colors while she sleeps, which scheel speculates is due to actions happening in the octopus’s dream. if she is dreaming, this is a dramatic moment. you can almost just narrate the body changes and narrate the dream. so here she’s asleep and she sees a crab and her color starts to change a little bit. then she turns all dark; octopuses will do that when they leave the bottom. this is a camouflage, like she’s just subdued a crab and now she’s going to sit there and eat it, and she doesn’t want anyone to notice her. this program already aired in the uk with the much snappier title of the octopus in my house; check out a review here. heidi loves to play. given a toy (an old pill bottle, say), she hurls it round as if it were a swimming aid, and she a toddler newly out of water wings. scheel has trained her so effectively to pull on a string that activates a buzzer that in the end he has to dismantle the thing if he wants to get a night’s sleep. she loves to touch and be touched, entwining her arms with those of laurel for minutes at a time. does she recognise her owners? indubitably. when scheel approaches the tank as himself, she rushes to its side, as if in greeting. but when he approaches disguised in a rubber mask, she hides. (thx, dunstan) more about... biology david scheel science tv video my recent media diet, the “is it fall 2019 already?!” edition posted by jason kottke sep 24, 2019 every month or two for the past couple of years, i’ve shared the movies, books, music, tv, and podcasts i’ve enjoyed (or not) recently. here’s everything i’ve “consumed” since late june. i’d tell you not to pay too much attention to the letter grades but you’re going to pay too much attention to the letter grades anyway so… (p.s. this list was shared last week in noticing, kottke.org’s weekly newsletter.) fiasco (season one). slow burn co-creator leon neyfakh explores the florida recount in the 2000 presidential election. my key takeaway is not that anyone stole the election but that any halfway close election in the us is fundamentally unfair, can easily be swayed in one direction or another, and violates our 14th amendment rights. i didn’t enjoy this as much as either season of slow burn…perhaps it was too recent for me to emotionally detach. (b+) the impossible whopper. all the people saying that the impossible patty tastes just like a real burger have either never tasted meat before or don’t pay a whole lot of attention when they eat. it’s the best veggie burger patty i’ve ever had, but it sure ain’t beef. (b) american factory. completely fascinating and straight-forward look at what happens when a chinese company takes over an old gm factory in dayton, ohio. give this just 5 minutes and you’ll watch the whole thing. (a) xoxo festival. always a creative shot in the arm. (a) norman fucking rockwell! i tried with this, i really did. i don’t think lana del rey is my cup of tea. (c) the handmaid’s tale (season 3). the show’s producers noticed how much critics praised elisabeth moss’s emotional closeups and now season 3 is like 80% just that. way too much of a good thing. still, there’s still a good show in here somewhere. (b+) do the right thing. somehow still bold and controversial after 30 years. but i confess…i am not sure exactly what the takeaway from this movie is supposed to be. (b+) tycho’s 2019 burning man sunrise set. always a treat when the latest installment of this series pops online. (a-) spider-man: far from home. it was fine but i kept waiting for an extra gear that never came. (b) existing conditions. the drinks here are very precise and well-balanced. hit ‘em up if you miss booker & dax. (b+) in the garden of beasts by erik larson. excellent and rhymes with the present in a number of ways. i previously shared a bunch of my highlights from the book. (a) keep going by austin kleon. a timely little book. (a-) stranger things (season 3). the best part of this show is the 80s nostalgia and they overdid it this season. (b) weather. tycho switched it up with this album by adding vocals. i hated them at first but they’ve grown on me. (b+) apollo 11. the first time around i watched this in a terrible theater with bad audio and didn’t care for it. the second time, at home, was so much better. the footage is stunning. (a) apollo 11 soundtrack. love the first track on this. (a-) ex machina. still gloriously weird. (a-) planet money: so, should we recycle? i don’t 100% agree with their conclusions, but it was interesting to think that recycling might not be the most efficient use of our resources. pair with an earlier episode on how recycling got started in the us. (b) chef’s table (virgilio martinez). central sounds absolutely bonkers. i hope to make it there someday. (b+) silicon cowboys. compaq took on ibm in the personal computer space and won. the first season of halt and catch fire was inspired in part by their story. (a-) once upon a time in hollywood. needed more plot. (b) to kill a mockingbird. i listened to this on audiobook and am convinced that sissy spacek’s narration made it like 20% more compelling. (a) metropolis ii. i could have watched this for hours. (a) redwood trees. (a+++) the dahlia garden in golden gate park. one of my favorite places on earth. (a+) mindhunter (season 2). i love this show. (a) the clearing. not the strongest true crime podcast but still worth a listen. (b) 5g. on my phone (iphone xs, at&t), anything less than 4 bars of “5ge” basically equals no service. and there’s no way to revert to lte. (d+) atlanta monster. started this after watching mindhunter s02. too much filler and poor editing in parts. when they started talking to a conspiracy theorist who has been brainwashed by the convicted killer (or something), i had to stop listening. a pity…this story could use a good podcast. (c) booksmart. second viewing and this may be my favorite movie of the year. so fun. (a) i’ve also been watching succession and rewatching all five seasons of the wire (to test a hypothesis that with the hindsight of the past decade, the fifth season is not as outlandish as everyone thought it was at the time). i’ve slowed way down on listening to guns, germs, and steel on audiobook and reading spqr — both are interesting but not holding my attention so i may end up abandoning them. i watched the first episode of the second season of big little lies when it was first released but might not finish the rest of it; the reviews of this season have not been great. past installments of my media diet are available here. more about... books food media diet movies music podcasts trees tv video season two of abstract: the art of design posted by jason kottke sep 23, 2019 abstract: the art of design is back for a second season on netflix beginning september 25. the folks featured this time around are artist olafur eliasson, architect & designer neri oxman, type designer jonathan hoefler (whose company provides the fonts for kottke.org), costume designer ruth e carter (did the costumes for do the right thing and black panther), ian spalter (former head of design at instagram), and toy designer cas holman. more about... abstract cas holman ian spalter jonathan hoefler neri oxman netflix olafur eliasson ruth e carter trailers tv video the four notes of death posted by jason kottke sep 17, 2019 when something dark and ominous happens onscreen, there’s a good chance that the action is accompanied by a four-note snippet from the dies irae, a 13th-century gregorian chant used at funerals. it shows up in the lion king, the good place, lord of the rings, and it’s a wonderful life. this vox video explores how this “shorthand for something grim” went from chant to hollywood. think back to some of the most dramatic scenes in film history — from the lion king, the shining, it’s a wonderful life. besides being sad or scary, they have something else in common: the dies irae. “dies irae” translates from latin to “day of wrath” — it’s a 13th-century gregorian chant describing the day catholics believe god will judge the living and the dead and send them to heaven or hell. and it was sung during one specific mass: funerals. alex ludwig from the berklee school of music made a supercut of over 30 films that use dies irae. more about... alex ludwig movies music remix tv video older posts kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives