menu open or close menu home tc reel creepy psychology romance friendship self-improvement family health astrology self love inspirational about us dedicated to your stories and ideas. learn about us. submit your work submit your writing to be published on thought catalog. advertise learn more about working with thought catalog. quarantine catalog links books self-improvement creepy tv + movies tv + movies tv + movies browse tv + movies topics close movies tv horror movies stephen king reality tv this is why i absolutely won’t be watching ‘the hills’ reboot alyssa lynn malmquist this is the advice girls in their twenties need from women in their forties your twenties alyssa lynn malmquist why eugene lee yang’s ‘i’m gay’ video is perfect for the lgbtq+ community michelle stojkov here’s everything you’ve ever wanted to know about the central park five entertainment alyssa lynn malmquist “falling prey to a hoax or prank on april fools’ day often leads to hurt feelings or anger at being duped. in horror, though, it can be downright deadly.” meagan navarro don’t be a kardashian when you can be an ocasio-cortez alyssa lynn malmquist how to forgive a dead person healing alyssa lynn malmquist netflix’s ‘always be my maybe’ has the relationship advice you need right now alyssa lynn malmquist latest tv + movies articles the real reason people are absolutely obsessed with ‘outlander’ love megan minutillo “ i now get the obsession with the show, the series, and the story. 33 youtubers to keep you entertained while you’re stuck at home entertainment january nelson “ hollywood graveyard. basically tours of graveyards and cemeteries in the hollywood area of celebrities’ final resting places. very interesting. animal crossing will relax you (and reset your brain from all the bad things going on) january nelson “ animal crossing starts you off in an airport, so if you’ve been feeling restless, this is a way for you to get your vacation fix without ever leaving your home. the ultimate list of what to watch during covid-19 quarantine coronavirus kelly peacock “ maybe you’ve seen it all before, or maybe you’re looking for something new… here’s what you should watch: life lessons from the remarkable rob brooks simone heard “ you can put yourself out there. and be your most authentic self while you do it. you can take chances. i hope you find a friendship like david rose and stevie budd’s friendship megan minutillo “ when you have a friendship like david rose and stevie budd, you know that you are seen, heard, and loved. how a netflix show about sex strengthened my relationship sex kirstie taylor “ i didn’t expect a single show to bring up such serious topics. i had no idea we’d be pausing the show and diving into scenarios of bdsm and infertility. this is exactly why we all can’t stop staring at the trainwreck that is ‘the bachelor’ kelly douglas “ why can’t we unglue our eyes from the spectacular travesty that is the bachelor? why do the show’s ratings continue to skyrocket, even amid our persistent (but completely valid) gripes that the tv series is vapid and anti-feminist, so this will be the last time we tune in? 7 reasons you need to watch ‘the witcher’ right this instant megan minutillo “ if you loved game of thrones, chances are you’ll love the witcher. my public apology to jimmy fallon max williamson “ i have a confession to make. i did something utterly shameful when i attended your show on friday, november 14, 2014. more stories ➔ get our newsletter every friday! sign up for the thought catalog weekly and get the best stories from the week to your inbox every friday. you may unsubscribe at any time. by subscribing, you agree to the terms of our privacy statement. submit you're in! see you friday. follow thought catalog thought catalog content latest writers books company about advertise submissions contact legal adchoices privacy statement terms of use a website by thought.is shop catalog quote catalog thought catalog books © 2020 the thought & expression company, llc. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress.com vip.