join sign in canada teaching resources age 0-5$nbsp; twinkl recommends... * free taster packs * assessment * planning * valentine's day * winter * dinosaurs foundation planning large activity tray plans planning webs activity planning and continuous provision ideas maths mastery eyfs adult input plans lesson plan and enhancement ideas continuous provision plans eyfs bumper planning packs eyfs adult input planning packs planning templates foundation pe planning scheme finger gym plans busy bag plans interactive poster plans discovery sacks mud kitchen plans messy play plans foundation assessment eyfs tracking sheets early years outcomes early learning goals characteristics of effective learning report writing and summative assessment next steps on entry assessments observation templates learning journeys the leuven scales the eyfs profile birth to twos paperwork can you find posters small world play baby signing early concepts visual stimulation for babies behaviour resources assessment playdough recipes edible play recipes busy bags treasure baskets circle time games schema resources sensory play cloud dough recipes personal, social and emotional development relationships safety seal story books circle time changes and new beginnings effective learning british values values and ideals physical development fine motor skills gross motor skills healthy living outdoor area pe and sports communication, language and literacy phonics song and rhymes writing display letters and words story sack resource packs story stones reading book lists alphabet display words and vocab playdough mats literacy certificates & awards story resources rhyme eyfs mathematics number maths challenge area shape, space & measures white rose maths supporting resources understanding the world resources eyfs science experiments everyday life weather and seasons festivals & cultural celebrations places science & investigation ict languages expressive arts and design small world play drama craft activities music fantasy and adventure role play art design & technology home learning phonics mathematics topics story books traditional tales pse topics take it outside stem outdoors the seasons maths outdoors literacy outdoors creativity outdoors investigation outdoors social skills outdoors classroom signs and labels ready made display packs classroom signs classroom labels early years classroom areas themed signs and labels general display resources classroom management pastoral support and well-being teacher organisation golden time staff room rules and behaviour certificates and awards calendars daily routine back to school transition starter and plenary resources eyfs teaching assistants extra curricular clubs eco club organised events & awareness days/weeks nqt senior leadership team age 5-7$nbsp; click here for new national curriculum resources twinkl recommends... free taster packs * diving into mastery * valentine's day * space assessment tests spag reading maths planning and assessment adult led focus plans english revision lesson planning starter and plenary resources assessment & targets sats survival phonics screening survival english spoken language and listening ks1 phonics activities and games spelling vocabulary, grammar & punctuation reading writing composition story resources nursery rhymes letter rhymes playdough mats display maths white rose maths supporting resources kirfs interactive maths games learning aids and maths equipment support materials times tables resources display number and place value fractions measurement position and direction properties of shape statistics mastery - fluency, reasoning and problem solving playdough mats maths warm-ups assessment vocab cards counting calculation subjects science history geography computing pe pshce music re art design & technology languages topics eco, recycling and environment castles & knights imagine black history fairtrade food ourselves - all about me fantasy places everyday life pirates dinosaurs weather and seasons festivals & cultural celebrations organised events & awareness days/weeks extra curricular take it outside protecting our outdoors stem outdoors english outdoors the seasons maths outdoors creativity outdoors social skills outdoors investigation outdoors classroom management pastoral support and well-being supply morning activities retrieval practice activities young people and families support teacher organisation golden time activities growth mindset staff room fundraising and charity resources memory activities top tips class assemblies school twinning resources rules and behaviour certificates and awards calendars daily routine back to school resources transition classroom signs and labels primary resources display packs classroom signs classroom labels classroom areas themed signs and labels general classroom display resources crafts activities cone people max mcmurdo & twinkl upcycling teaching resources teaching assistants senior leadership team age 7-11$nbsp; click here for new national curriculum resources twinkl recommends... * free taster packs * times tables * sats survival * valentine's day assessment tests maths spag reading planning and assessment english revision assessment & targets lesson planning sats survival english ks2 spag resources - spelling punctuation and grammar non-fiction speaking & listening sound stories theatre and film ks2 writing primary resources handwriting primary resources - ks2 ks2 reading words and vocabulary ks2 stories primary resources display maths white rose maths supporting resources kirfs interactive maths games maths warm-ups primary resources ks2 number and place value calculation properties of shapes fractions, decimals and percentages measurement position and direction ks2 data handling & statistics ks2 algebra ratio and proportion times tables mastery - fluency, reasoning and problem solving learning aids and maths equipment support materials certificates and awards ks2 maths displays ks2 maths tests and assessments science life processes and living things earth and space physical processes materials and their properties science investigation science assessments science displays writing frames and activity sheets powerpoints signs and labels knowledge organisers certificates and awards subjects history geography computing pe pshce music re ks2 art design and technology languages topics the environment food staying healthy the rainforest water black history pirates british values current affairs animals inventors and inventions the seaside imagine project packs festivals and celebrations organised events and awareness days/weeks extra curricular take it outside stem outdoors protecting our outdoors the seasons maths outdoors english outdoors creativity outdoors social skills outdoors classroom management pastoral support and well-being daily routine supply young people and families support morning activities retrieval practice activities certificates and awards rules and behaviour golden time back to school calendars transition teacher organisation staff room fundraising and charity resources top tips classroom signs and labels general display resources classroom labels classroom signs display packs themed signs and labels learning aids growth mindset primary resources interactive visual aids blooms taxonomy primary resources socratic questioning memory workouts teaching assistants nqt senior leadership team age 11-18$nbsp; free taster packs english ks3 english key stage 4/gcse english maths ks3 maths ks4/gcse maths ks5 maths science ks3 science ks4/gcse science geography ks3 geography ks4/gcse geography history ks3 history ks4/gcse history religion ks3 religious studies ks4/gcse religious studies french ks3 french ks4/gcse french spanish ks3 spanish ks4/gcse spanish german ks3 german ks4/gcse german design & technology ks3 design & technology ks4/gcse design & technology food, nutrition, hospitality & catering ks4 food, nutrition, hospitality & catering art & design ks3 art & design ks4/gcse art & design physical education ks3 pe ks4/gcse pe computing music ks3 music ks4/gcse music pshe citizenship form time ideas festivals and events teacher toolbox senior leadership team send$nbsp; pastoral social, emotional and mental health difficulties friendship and social skills emotions visual timetables and routine social situations behaviour management cognition and learning working memory specific learning difficulties visual timetables and routine curriculum support foundation subjects p scales english maths storybooks traditional tales sensory and physical needs sensory visual impairment motor skills senco teacher organisation staff training transition person centred reviews supporting parents parents organisation at home rewards individual needs useful forms and information curriculum support back to school communication and interaction speech, language and communication needs staff training autism spectrum disorders pshce british sign language bsl club activities and games alphabet, number and fingerspelling classroom management left handed topics video clips deaf education events activities and games audiology british sign language classroom management cognition and learning communication deaf culture fine motor skills ks3/ks4 maths english senco information and useful forms ks3/ ks4 social skills secondary resources classroom management autism spectrum disorders pshe speech, language and communication needs visual timetables and routines transition senior leadership team eal$nbsp; writing grammar sentence construction spelling dual language resources afrikaans arabic french gaeilge german greek hindi hungarian italian mandarin chinese polish portuguese romanian spanish spanish (latin) urdu british sign language classroom organisation daily routine graphic organisers rules and behaviour object/place labelling planning and assessment back to school pupil information reading cvc words reading pictures traditional tales sequencing everyday events storybooks read and draw speaking and listening sentence building pronunciation photo packs audio resources concept maps eal pshe relationships healthy living safety circle time all about me emotions self-introduction resources my body non verbal resources and communication visual timetables word cards communication fans word mats topics everyday life weather and seasons places festivals and celebrations games language games pshce games new eal starter transition basic english display useful eal packs country information china russia poland lithuania turkey uae romania albania somalia slovakia latvia czech republic india pakistan songs and rhymes eal intervention programme senior leadership team create home learning parents home education childminders resources membership individual school & organisations twinklcares 24/7 support. customised resources for you. classic discover a huge collection of 500,000+ teaching materials for birth to 18! create personalize your resources with twinkl create! originals our original digital story books and teaching materials. inclusion supportive materials for children with individualised needs. foundation early childhood planning and assessment materials to innovate and inspire. planit our award winning scheme of work, developed to provide engaging lesson and unit plans. imagine a daily photo to enhance your teaching with inspiring activities for a wide range of themes * new! * boost same-day maths interventions, 1:1 60-second reading sessions, handwriting interventions and sats and phonics screening survival tools. handwriting twinkl's handwriting scheme. - a revolutionary approach to handwriting. * new! * newsroom a trusted news feed for young readers, with ready-to-teach national curriculum resources. move a complete collection of physical education planning for ages 0-11. go interactive resources for a computer, tablet or mobile. * new! * phonics exclusive! sample week 1, levels 2 to 6 of twinkl phonics for schools. life create an environment that puts wellbeing first. beyond english english language planning and teaching materials for ages 11-18. beyond maths math planning and teaching materials for ages 11-18. beyond science physics, chemistry and biology planning and teaching materials for ages 11-18. beyond debate daily discussion topics and accompanying materials, perfect for form time. esl/tefl resources to support teaching english as a second language. homepage twinkl education blog primary twinkl's top us education blogs share this blog post: prev next will bond content writer view more by this author twinkl's top us education blogs 9 min 13 august 19 there is an incredible amount of brilliant education blogging content coming out of the us. from educators, to parents, to commentators and beyond, there is an incredibly wide array of voices motivated to share their knowledge, opinion and insights to the wider education community. we always love seeing education bloggers’ excellent teaching tips, opinions, stories and more online! with such great blog content being created, it’s only fair that these sites receive the recognition they deserve. so without further ado, here’s our list of best us education blogs: a principal's reflections “eric is a senior fellow and thought leader on digital leadership & learning with the international center for leadership in education (icle). eric's blog is a blend of research, ideas, and strategies that can help educators transform teaching, learning, and leadership. many of his writings directly focus on his work with schools across the world to improve outcomes. learn about him and his work at ericsheninger.com.” emerging edtech “kelly walsh joined the college of westchester in 2008, where he works as chief information officer and teaches as an assistant professor. in 2009, walsh started the education technology web site emergingedtech.com, where he and guest writers explore resources, techniques and concepts focused on leveraging digital technologies to support student success and teaching. walsh also writes regularly for university business magazine. in may of 2019, walsh was recognized as a “top 30 higher education it influencer” by edtechmagazine.com. walsh’s work is recognized often in the press and online.” shake up learning “kasey bell is a former middle school teacher turned award-winning digital learning consultant, international speaker, author, blogger and podcaster with a texas-sized passion for technology and learning. kasey is the author of the shake up learning blog and book, host of the shake up learning show podcast and co-host of the google teacher tribe podcast. as a skillful facilitator, google certified innovator, and google certified trainer, kasey has led a variety of digital learning workshops across the globe and helped thousands of educators to transform their classrooms!” ditch that textbook “the ditch that textbook blog provides tons of practical ideas for using technology in the classroom in meaningful ways. it shares plug-and-play ideas using digital tools like g suite (slides, docs, drawings), flipgrid, pear deck and more. tech in the classroom is only as good as how you use it. that's why we infuse our teaching ideas with pedagogy, best practices, brain science and more. you'll get the how-to's as well as they why's for new ideas in the classroom. plus, when you sign up for the email newsletter, you'll get free ebooks including "101 practical ways to ditch that textbook." ditch that textbook is run by matt miller, author of three books: ditch that textbook, ditch that homework, and don't ditch that tech.” catlin tucker “catlin tucker is a google certified innovator, bestselling author, international trainer, and keynote speaker. she was named teacher of the year in 2010 in sonoma county where she taught for 16 years. catlin’s books blended learning in grades 4-12 and blended learning in action are bestsellers. corwin published catlin's newest book power up blended learning in fall 2018 and her newest book, partner with students and achieve balance with blended learning will be published fall 2019. catlin's blog is designed to support teachers using technology and blended learning models with the goal of placing students at the center of learning.” learners edge “the learners edge chalk blog focuses on bringing applicable, relevant advice and strategies educators can implement in their classroom right away. written by teachers who have been in the classroom, we welcome all teachers to join the chalk blog community – share insights and learn from fellow educators around the globe! learners edge is passionately committed to providing teachers with the kind of continuing education coursework, materials, and tools that will help them succeed in the classroom and in their careers.” tammy skinner “i teach chemistry, honors chemistry, and honors physics at northpoint christian school in southaven, ms. it all began in 2008 with a huge challenge my students were facing - students gone on mission trips, students out with the flu, students in tournaments, or students who missed the concepts in class and just needed to hear the lesson again. i use it for posting videos of daily lectures, reviews, and help sessions plus it’s a place where my students can access the weekly syllabus, assignments, rubrics, project information, interactive websites, tutorials and more. they also use the comments to ask me (or their classmates) questions they forgot or might have been hesitant to ask in class.” educational technology guy “david andrade is a senior k-12 education strategist for cdw-g. an experienced engineer, educator and school district cio, he works with school districts to assist them with resources, strategic planning and advice for selecting and implementing technology solutions to help them improve teaching and learning. this includes district level vision and goals, curriculum and pedagogy, learning space design, platforms, devices and classroom lessons. his educational technology guy blog is a place to learn about free resources for teachers, educational ideas and tips, educational topics, personal learning networks, project based learning, google for education, evernote, discovery education and more.” smart classroom management “smart classroom management was founded in 2009 by michael linsin. it's over 500 free articles and resources represent a simplified approach to classroom management that very effectively causes students to be intrinsically motivated to listen, learn, and behave. at the same time, the strategies are designed to not only be best for students, and their long-term social and academic future, but also for teachers and their peace and enjoyment of the job.” trevor muir “trevor is a teacher, author, international speaker, and project based learning expert. he is the author of the epic classroom: how to boost engagement, make learning memorable, and transform lives, a book about using the power of story to make learning engaging and unforgettable. trevor writes articles and creates videos for fellow teachers that have been viewed over 25 million times on facebook. trevor’s blog is about inspiring teachers to push the educational boundaries and explore the different ways that they can engage their students and not burn out while doing so. from sharing techniques for successful student collaboration to giving ideas on how to inspire even the most challenging students, trevor’s blog is about making learning authentic, and finding ways to thrive as a teacher as well as helping students thrive themselves.” 97% of teachers agree that twinkl improves their work/life balance. inspire your students, improve your wellbeing, and regain control of your time with twinkl. sign up for a free account here. don’t stop there! our blog is filled with useful advice, top tips, and expert guides. top 10 end of year gift ideas for your class how to get a free trial of twinkl go have you tried our lovely assembly idea powerpoints yet? how can you make teaching number bonds fun? introducing twinkl planit spelling! will bond content writer will is a writer for the twinkl blog who's always keen to hear and include others' opinions and expertise into his posts. outside of twinkl, you'll most likely find him writing about his love of gaming or hip-hop. view more by this author get teaching ideas and inspiration - all in one weekly newsletter! i'm in × sign in to leave a review more from this author the best education podcasts twinkl's top sen blogs twinkl’s top canadian education blogs 30 education influencers you need to follow let us help you help & faqs contact individual memberships school memberships twinkl teach events wellbeing hub careers resources primary resources eyfs teaching resources ks1 teaching resources ks2 teaching resources ks3 & gcse teaching resources sen teaching resources eal teaching resources home education childminders parents lesson plans twinkl original books twinkl book club handwriting schemes interactive resources & games dementia support morning starter activities eyfs planning materials children's news pe planning phonics schemes of work pshe, rse & wellbeing tefl & esl resources trainee teacher resources senior leadership team resources curriculum international school curriculums europe english national curriculum curriculum for excellence (cfe) adnoddau cymraeg / welsh resources northern irish curriculum irish curriculum currículo español programmes scolaires français materialien auf deutsch risorse in italiano polska materiały edukacyjne materiale didactice în limba română ελληνικό εκπαιδευτικό υλικό recursos de ensino para portugal asia middle east teaching resources india teaching resources 中文教学资源 / chinese teaching resources ประเทศไทย/thailand curriculum singapore teaching resources africa suid-afrika / south africa resources americas common core state standards canada teaching resources américa latina y el caribe recursos de ensino para o brasil oceania australian curriculum new zealand curriculum مواد تعليمية عربية international primary curriculum (ipc) tools twinkl create blog imagine avatar creator teaching calendar teaching wiki classroom displays booklist twinkl font twinkl handwriting font twinkl timer store image library augmented reality apps report writer onestep cpd homework help get to know us about us press & media corporate & partnerships legal twinklhive products