skip to content the book the blog about me travel guides tag: twitter i tweeted about the joker being a woman who was tired of this shit and it now feels auto-biographical posted on jun 4, 2019 posted in: nothing to do with travel, random musings recently my twitter replies were doused in gasoline and set alight. it’s been both somewhat alarming and interesting. (uncontrollable, raging fires usually are.) i wrote this tweet in the lobby of a hotel in downtown seattle after i’d had a day. an exhausting, emotionally draining day filled with some of the more intense stuff you… keep reading i quit twitter for a month. posted on sep 4, 2018 posted in: "lifestyle", nothing to do with travel, personal essay i quit twitter for a month. this should not sound like a profound thing, but for someone for whom the social media platform was essentially an extension of my psyche, the act has felt monumental. i have said, again and again (usually when talking of internet abuse and responding to people who tell me that… keep reading what happened when i tried talking to twitter abusers posted on jul 30, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel, personal essay trigger warning: please note that this is a blog post about online abuse, and includes screen caps of tweets sent to me. graphic threats and abusive, hateful language toward women appear therein. a few weeks ago, i gave a keynote talk at world domination summit in portland. the thesis: while we regard online misogyny and abuse… keep reading if twitter responded to abuse reports honestly posted on mar 22, 2018 posted in: nothing to do with travel i spend too much time on twitter. and, frankly, it’s awful. every day is like wading through a sea of poop to try and find a cupcake, and even when you find that, it’s like, “well, i can’t possibly eat this cupcake. it’s covered in poop.” as a writer, twitter becomes a sort of necessary… keep reading just when you think you’re out … posted on jan 8, 2010 posted in: random musings your flight gets canceled … or redirected to madrid. i have to say, and i realize i’m tempting fate just by putting these words to print, we’ve been really lucky when it comes to delays, cancellations, and sitting on the tarmac for hours on end. unfortunately, as of late our friends have not been so… keep reading about the everywhereist hi, i'm geraldine. time magazine called this blog “consistently clever” (no shit. this happened). here’s the story of how it came to be, and a brief rundown of what’s wrong with me. more stuff i wrote best of the blog > a snippet of my book > the archives > people & stuff i like > join the mailing list never miss a post get new blog posts delivered straight to your inbox. no spam. promise. submit leave this field empty if you're human: facebook twitter instagram google+ rss on instagram @theeverywhereist home blog all over the place about best of archives travel guides people & stuff i like more + © 2017 - the everywhereist terms of use privacy policy newsletter subscription status all over the place buy my book and i promise i'll never ask you for anything again. be awesome. buy it.