home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library latest articles money prevnext the importance of saving money for the family leyla preston wed 22nd may 2019 0shares share tweet pin as contradictory as it sounds, there is some truth to the adage that ‘two people can live as cheaply as one.’ however, when kids are brought into the equation, the reality of keeping up with finances can become seemingly difficult. today, parents’ monthly/weekly outgoings consist of a multitude of things that are difficult to live without. so, it’s essential you know all about the importance of saving money. fear not, there are a number of ways in which savings can be made on things that your family share together. table of contents consolidate debts and pay them off before you save claim what’s yours offers and special deals leisure time top tips consolidate debts and pay them off before you save the importance of saving money stems from being able to rely on an emergency fund if things get difficult. so, it is essential that the very first thing you do before you save is to pay off any outstanding debts first, especially secured debts. debts like rent, mortgage and household bills cannot be put off and there’s no point in saving money when you’re in the red. if you are struggling with lots of different debts from a number of creditors, it may be worth consolidating your debt and taking out a loan to pay the whole amount off. if you are short of time and need to pay off your debts quickly then companies can provide small loans, which work to pay off your debt in one lump sum so you only have to pay that company back every month. other loan companies require a guarantor to before you can take out a consolidated loan, so read up on what’s available to you before you decide. claim what’s yours one way that you can help your finances is to make sure you are claiming all the help from the government that you, your children and all the family are entitled to. although these can be difficult waters to navigate, once you have registered for the various benefits and credits that might apply, it is relatively easy to keep on top of them. offers and special deals a family unit can make savings by taking advantage of offers and special deals. some brands recognise the value of making something cost-effective while providing a service for several members of the family at the same time. sometimes, alongside the regular outstanding bills, food can be the next highest expenditure, as everyone has to eat. online grocery shopping is big business in the uk and all the major uk supermarkets have tons of great deals to entice customers in. if you’re a brick and mortar person, look out for deals at the end of each aisle or head to the shops late in the day when everything is reduced according to freshness and expiration date. of course, tie that in with meal planning and you’ve effectively saved a huge portion of your finances every week. leisure time it may not be an absolute essential but entertainment still eats into the family budget; from transport to expensive tickets, it really can add up fast. however, there are ways around this, which also applies to spare time at home, and overseas holidays. there are fantastic deals to be found for families including free child places to destinations all over the world, meaning you can create lasting memories for less. some attractions offer family discounts and some may even allow grown ups in for free. check on the side of the kids’ cornflakes box before recycling as sometimes cereal packets feature great deals on days out for the family. top tips there are plenty of sites online that have tips on how you can make savings without cutting too many corners. unfortunately, sometimes this information really doesn’t add up to much more than common sense. finding out about actual deals and offers that will help your household budget can be a little trickier but more worthwhile in the long run. so, it’s worth putting the time in for your family. have you got any tips on how to make savings as a family? then please send in your comments. *collaborative guest post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:family savingsmoneysaving related posts 7 ways to become a stylish mum how much does it cost eat like an olympi... investment options for your family’s fut... send your child to university with ̵... my way or the highway bathrooms.com ultimate diy guide for hom... how much does a wedding truly cost? how to shop smart and save online with h... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... how to save money on gifts this christma... how to deal with the stress of moving to... what do you really need for your new bab... financial planning tips for new parents how to make your rental business run smo... 7 fun ways to teach kids about saving en... looking after your money after christmas about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok