two black cats friday, march 30, 2007 garden pics a few signs of spring. labels: garden posted by judith @ 3:00 pm 8 comments hermes is growing up hermes has just discovered the sink! he also has a habit of climbing into any open cupboard, or even the washing machine. posted by judith @ 2:56 pm 8 comments friday, march 09, 2007 arty curls up this is arty curled up in the lid of my daughters sewing basket. he must have seen it every day for years, but he has never slept in it before! sorry that we've been absent for so long - with the nicer weather gardening will resume and so will this blog. more details to follow..... posted by judith @ 8:43 am 7 comments sunday, october 01, 2006 velvet in the sun velvet enjoys a patch of late summer sun. please don't forget the carnival of the cats at pets garden posted by judith @ 12:47 pm 19 comments a reassembled compost heap - complete with carpet - this has become a favourite sleeping place for the cats! posted by judith @ 12:27 pm 3 comments a new waterbutt - ordered in about june - but never mind - it'll be useful next summer posted by judith @ 12:27 pm 4 comments pretty pink geraniums posted by judith @ 12:20 pm 0 comments one of four sunflowers posted by judith @ 12:19 pm 0 comments my hebe continues to flower beautifully posted by judith @ 12:19 pm 0 comments late pink roses posted by judith @ 12:18 pm 0 comments a lovely orange dahlia. posted by judith @ 12:18 pm 1 comments friday, september 22, 2006 hermes - a growing kitten close encounter with a dog in the garden. upside down play! this photography stuff is complicated. king of the castle! please have a look at friday ark at the modulator posted by judith @ 10:15 am 6 comments friday, september 15, 2006 catblogging - new look cat beds oh - a neatly folder pile of clean towels. what an excellent bed. aren't i handsome? two tier cat beds! please have a look at friday ark at the modulator and of course don't forget the carnival of the cats at justin's random thoughts and weekend catblogging at eatstuff.net posted by judith @ 2:32 pm 3 comments sunday, september 03, 2006 sorry - but i am back now! sorry that blogging has been non-existent for a couple of weeks. so here is a text-only blog entry to catch up with the news. on thurs 24th august my daughter, k, got her gcse results - and we are all so proud of her - she has 8 and a half a*'s and 2 a's (the half was from short-course re taken in year 10). her friends also did amazingly well - which bodes well for their entry into the 6th form at the start of the new term. her school have decided that the 6th form will wear 'office clothes' so they have to wear black suits (skirts of trousers) and white blouses. so we had a shopping trip - all i need to do now is to turn up 2 pairs of trousers. on friday 25th we had a nice chinese meal with my mom and dad to celebrate their 55th wedding anniversary. last wednesday k and her dad went to london and saw the new tom stoppard play rock 'n roll, and they got his autograph and also autographs of several other members of the cast. last week i did 4 days invigilation for icas (the institute of chartered accountants of scotland). this was my first paid employment out of the house for about 18 months, and so was quite scary at first. but there were 2 other invigilators who were great fun - both had connections with my old secondary school so we reminisced a lot. there was quite a lot of admin (which i enjoy) and it wasn't as boring as i thought it might be - and the candidates were great - very mature and polite. i travelled into birmingham on the train - with about a 10 minute walk each end - and even that was fun. and r took charge of all the cooking - so it was a nice role-reversal. the cats were funny as well - they were so pleased to see me when i got home - and ate their food with great relish! (it didn't seem to occur to either of them that they could 'ask' for food from r or k!) also, as the weather has been quite autumnal they are staying inside more and spending a lot of evenings on my lap. then yesterday i had the final tutorial for one of my ou courses, and next weekend is a revision weekend (more of that later). so now it's 'back to school' week. r goes back tomorrow (with 2 days for the staff only), and k is back on wednesday. i've got lots of ou work to do - and mega-plans in terms of house-tidying. i'll let you know if i stick to my plans! i will also track down the camera and take some pics of the cats and the garden! posted by judith @ 11:40 am 5 comments tuesday, august 22, 2006 tagged we have been tagged by fat eric - so here goes: 5 weird things about us: velvet loves human food - he comes running whenever the fridge door is opened. arty will only eat catfood! neither will eat cat treats. neither velvet or arty will drink water from a bowl - maybe a dripping tap - maybe the toilet (yuk) but usually the pond in the garden. velvet distrusts the catflap. somedays he has to open it with his paw many, many times just to check it still works. velvet loves to lie on top of me with his head on my shoulder. the only trouble is he then tries to bite my chin! velvet and arty are 'trained' to come when i click by tongue and call 'kittens'. this may seem odd as they are fully grown cats - but means i get both to come running. 5 weird things about me i prefer maths to housework. but actually i prefer most things to housework, so maybe that isn't totally weird. i like cold chinese or indian food. i rarely listen to music. occasionally classic fm radio (as background sound) or beautiful south. i listen to bbc radio 4 a lot. on the music theme - i hate any music first thing in the morning. i mean really hate it! i don't like shopping and neither does my daughter, k. i'm not sure if those are weird or not - let me know! posted by judith @ 2:27 pm 2 comments sorry that blogging has been light we spent last week in seahouses in northumberland. rather mixed weather - but a nice relaxing time. i've posted a few photos. i hope that i can return to regular blogging soon. the garden is looking a little untidy but plenty of vegetables to pick. the cats are fine - they are really pleased to see us! posted by judith @ 11:36 am 1 comments torrential rain on thurssday led to some interesting scenes outside our window. posted by judith @ 11:30 am 0 comments the view from our flat in seahouses posted by judith @ 11:22 am 1 comments seals on the farne islands posted by judith @ 11:22 am 0 comments kittiwakes on inner farne posted by judith @ 11:22 am 0 comments inner farne posted by judith @ 11:21 am 0 comments longstone lighthouse in the farne islands posted by judith @ 11:21 am 0 comments two black cats about me name: judith location: west midlands, united kingdom i am a mature student studying maths with the open university. i am the 'owner' of 2 black cats who will feature in this blog. i am interested in conservation, growing vegetables, cooking, quizzing, cricket and reading blogs. view my complete profile other interesting things ganymede's daily quiz meet hermes 2006 sowing part 1 2006 sowing and potting on - part 2 meet cyril meet lizzie patch my ou history vel and arty as kittens birmingham local weather forecast categories cats gardening family ou holidays get blogger categories! www.flickr.com this is a flickr badge showing photos in a set called tigger and poppy. make your own badge here. previous posts garden pics hermes is growing up arty curls up velvet in the sun a reassembled compost heap - complete with carpet ... a new waterbutt - ordered in about june - but neve... pretty pink geraniums one of four sunflowers my hebe continues to flower beautifully late pink roses archives march 2006 april 2006 may 2006 june 2006 july 2006 august 2006 september 2006 october 2006 march 2007 links to other cat blogs cat blogs links to other garden blogs pumpkin soup allotment no 21 anything but sprouts dave's allotment dig for victory elms in the yard farmgirl fare ...and i hate worms inmykitchengarden losing the plot petunia's garden plot c81 clodhoppers mike's allotment diary the accidental smallholder hoe hoe hoe mytinyplot ...but it's dirty! links to cat cams jordan cats ifoc catcams eriador cats other web cams seahouses harbour webcam who links to me? contact the two black cats sonystyle.com coupon