the onion the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the inventory america's finest news source. subscribe homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop america's finest news source. homelatestpoliticssportslocalentertainmentthe topicalopinionognshop american voices u.n. names finland happiest country for third year in a row you may also like sports kawhi leonard misses second consecutive family game night citing load management 2 hours ago sports tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer yesterday 9:30am local global pandemic that has killed thousands giving woman just the push she needed to organize tupperware cabinet today 12:41pm more from g/o media read on british royal family orders citizens to leave u.k. until prince charles recovers read on trump’s call to reopen economy attributed to new floating virus cloud advisor read on man just buying one of every cleaning product in case trump announces it’s coronavirus cure read on trump suggests ceding new york to coronavirus as possible appeasement strategy subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the onion delivered to your inbox.subscribe wednesday 4:52pm • see more: opinion opinionvol 56 issue 12 the 2020 united nations world happiness report has found finland has the happiest citizens in the world, followed closely by other nordic countries while the united states has bumped up one spot to number 18. what do you think? “sure, it works in finland, but i don’t think happiness is right for the u.s.” hattie carpenter • unemployed “good for them, but there’s more to life than winning some competition that exhaustively measures quality of life.” jerry skager • chair expert advertisement “one wonders how they thought up angry birds.” christoph thibodeaux • marble slab polisher share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the onion 8 insanely cute child soldiers study finds female mammals live longer than males man reflects on cyclical nature of existence after learning mcdonald’s has stopped offering all-day breakfast once again tom brady awakens from week-long kombucha bender to discover he’s a tampa bay buccaneer share tweet