u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition u.s. news abortion donald trump game of thrones politics news comedy country singer joe diffie tests positive for covid-19 "we want to remind the public and all my fans to be vigilant, cautious and careful during this pandemic,” the singer said in a statement. by kristin m. hall, ap 13 amazing photos you missed this week scenes of life amidst the coronavirus pandemic dominate this week's best images. by chris mcgonigal navy hospital ship rushing to new york, repairs unfinished, for covid-19 crisis trump is planning a trip to norfolk saturday as the usns comfort puts to sea, giving him a photo op as the hospital situation in new york becomes a crisis. by s.v. date trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad 10 of trump's most damaging coronavirus lies a fluffy 'game of thrones' star has died dubious coronavirus experts run amok in pro-trump media fox news and other right-wing media outlets have repeatedly offered a platform for misinformation to back the president's narrative. by nick robins-early americans trapped in nepal frustrated with u.s. government's lack of response nearly 10,000 tourists are stranded in nepal after the government suspended all international flights to prevent the spread of covid-19. by rowaida abdelaziz newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. 'contagion' stars reunite for covid-19 psa winslet says in her psa: “wash your hands like your life depends on it. because right now, in particular, it just might.” by ap new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight meanwhile, president donald trump has rejected the state's plea for ventilators. by sebastian murdock bob dylan responds to coronavirus with song about jfk assassination the new tune, "murder most foul," also references the beatles, stevie nicks, nat king cole, queen and so many more artists. by david moye trump goes full ‘shock doctrine’ as pandemic rages the administration is pushing its pro-polluter agenda as the u.s. death toll from covid-19 rises. by alexander c. kaufman and chris d'angelo how to prepare for your pets in case of a coronavirus emergency make sure your dog, cat, rabbit or other animal companion is accounted for if you have a covid-19-related crisis. by hilary hanson even donald trump is slamming gop lawmaker delaying coronavirus bill republicans and democrats are condemning rep. thomas massie for insisting legislators vote in person instead of holding a "voice vote." by david moye ny gov. andrew cuomo thanks rihanna for donation of personal protective equipment additionally, the singer's clara lionel foundation previously announced that it had donated $5 million to organizations fighting the coronavirus pandemic. by kimberley richards u.s. has the most confirmed coronavirus cases the united states now has the most confirmed cases of coronavirus in the world. by huffpost video democrats’ ad blitz aims to counteract trump’s monopoly on coronavirus response the president's approval rating has ticked up during the crisis, but the eventual results will be immune to spin. by kevin robillard instacart gig workers threaten to strike, demand hazard pay and sick leave a lead organizer for the planned monday walkout says the grocery delivery company isn't taking care of workers on the front lines of the coronavirus pandemic. by jenna amatulli teen who may have died of coronavirus was denied care for not having insurance: mayor the 17-year-old is thought to be the youngest known person to die of the illness in the u.s. by sara boboltz tiny east coast island untouched by covid-19 scrambles to keep it that way tourism fuels the economy of block island, rhode island, but residents worry visitors seeking refuge from the pandemic could strain the town's limited resources. by hayley miller as new york city's 911 calls explode, fdny begs sick people to call doctors first the fire department is asking new yorkers only to "call during an emergency" during the coronavirus pandemic. by jenna amatulli single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill kentucky republican rep. thomas massie thinks social distancing is “oppression” and is worried about an expedited vote on the coronavirus relief bill. by arthur delaney , daniel marans , travis waldron, and tara golshan ridley scott rips 'nutcase' trump's coronavirus response the legendary director said there are “very few worthwhile” politicians. by lee moran newsletter sign up the morning email the morning email helps you start your workday with everything you need to know: breaking news, entertainment and a dash of fun. subscribe here. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost news. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.