u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition u.s. congress some senate republicans want lower coronavirus unemployment payments their complaints could upend a bill crafted over several days of intense negotiations. by arthur delaney and igor bobic new coronavirus bill has 'unemployment insurance on steroids' more workers would qualify and would receive bigger benefits. by arthur delaney and igor bobic coronavirus relief package again falls short in senate democrats said they were close to an agreement with republicans and predicted a modified version would win passage soon. by david morgan and andy sullivan, reuters americans want paid sick leave for coronavirus. why won't congress deliver? it’s “beyond shameful” that senate majority leader mitch mcconnell won't prioritize it, one advocate says. by emily peck trending hoda kotb cries uncontrollably on 'today' and viewers totally get it single republican pointlessly forcing in-person vote on house coronavirus bill new york coronavirus death toll jumps by 134 overnight 800,000 physicians tell trump social distancing must continue fox business host neil cavuto goes after steve mnuchin’s coronavirus job losses tone donald trump jr. shares racist ‘kung-flu kid’ coronavirus meme about his dad coronavirus rescue talks churn late into night after dems reject gop bailout bill democrats argued the rescue package was tilted toward corporations and did too little to help workers and health care providers. by andrew taylor, jonathan lemire and lisa mascaro, ap trump declines to promise that his own company won't get coronavirus bailout money “i've learned, let’s just see what happens,” the president said during a press briefing about the ongoing pandemic. by nick visser newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up. mnuchin dismisses report that u.s. ignored coronavirus warnings: ‘no one expected’ it “i don’t think anybody should second guess the government actions," the treasury secretary said when asked about the report. by nina golgowski democrats fight for conditions on coronavirus bailout democrats are fighting to ensure that the potential $1 trillion bailout doesn’t go to corporate bonuses & stock buybacks. by huffpost video mitt romney proposes sending americans $1,000 to deal with coronavirus downturn the utah senator joins a rising chorus of economists who want to send out checks. by emily peck rep. karen bass, chairwoman of congressional black caucus, endorses joe biden the endorsement by democratic rep. karen bass of california is the latest testament of a growing coalescence of support for biden’s white house bid. by kat stafford, ap elizabeth warren calls on trump, congress to go bigger on coronavirus it's an update of her presidential campaign plan, covering public health and economics, and includes $750 billion in new spending. by jonathan cohn finally, everyone understands why paid sick leave is necessary too bad it took the massive coronavirus outbreak to get (almost) everyone on board. by emily peck democrats propose emergency paid sick days to address coronavirus republicans may find it uncomfortable to vote against guaranteeing two weeks of needed leave during an outbreak. by dave jamieson will bernie sanders really be a drag on down-ballot democrats? super tuesday might give us the best idea yet. by matt fuller and tara golshan biden jabs sanders: harder for democrats to win back senate if he's nominee the former vice president said a sanders nomination could hurt congressional candidates' chances in november. by hayley miller donald trump jr.’s coronavirus conspiracy donald trump jr. and white house officials continue to push the theory that democrats are using the coronavirus to bring down the president. by huffpost video lynching is finally a federal hate crime 65 years after emmett till's death the bill, which was named after till, comes 120 years after congress first considered anti-lynching legislation and after dozens of similar efforts were defeated. by matthew daly, ap election-year trump says he's ready to float farmers on another river of taxpayer cash he again falsely claimed that the bill would be covered by tariffs "coming into the country," when tariffs are actually paid by u.s. importers and consumers. by mary papenfuss ex-gop lawmaker rips republicans: letting trump drive country ‘to financial ruin’ former south carolina rep. mark sanford accused conservatives of choosing "to ignore this mounting crisis out of fealty" to trump. by lee moran trump's trade war will cost average family $1,277 this year, budget office reveals the extra costs will effectively wipe out savings from the president's tax cuts. by mary papenfuss newsletter sign up politics huffpost's top politics stories, straight to your inbox. thanks! you have been successfully signed up.load more articles newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost politics. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.