back to udemy login sign up back to udemy sign up login home blog stories company careers press insights, ideas, and stories all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation august 9, 2019 meet udemy’s 2019 interns! this article was written by summer intern irene suarez from ping pong tournaments to friday lunch outings, we interns made the most of our time here at udemy with a total of twenty interns from all over the world, we learned and grew in personal and professional ways throughout the internship program, while... july 31, 2019 5 lesser known instruments to learn on uncommon musical instrument day today (july 31) marks uncommon musical instrument day, a special day to appreciate the weird, bizarre, and truly extraordinary instruments of the world—from the water-powered hydrolauphone to the touchless theremin if you’ve ever imagined yourself blowing a didgeridoo on an australian beach, today is a great... june 11, 2019 udemy featured in hotly anticipated 2019 internet trends report for more than 20 years, the arrival of mary meeker’s internet trends report has been an eagerly anticipated event as one of the first investors in internet-based businesses, venture capitalist meeker established herself early on as a leading expert at spotting emerging trends she was on the morgan stanley team that... may 11, 2019 how one mom fits in learning web development during nap time thirty-three-year-old tina lives in germany, takes care of her one-and-a-half-year-old son, and learns web development in her rare spare time she’s currently working through andrei neagoie's "the complete web developer in 2019: zero to mastery" and anthony alicea's "javascript - understanding the weird... march 15, 2019 udemy instructor spotlight: alicia paz alicia paz, ma is a therapist, dbt (dialectical behavioral therapy) coach, and udemy instructor she’s no newbie to the platform, as alicia has been teaching on udemy since 2013 her dedication to providing students access to mental health coping skills goes so far as finishing the script for her second udemy... february 27, 2019 who we are at udemy at udemy, we’re working toward an exciting mission, and we care a lot about how we achieve it our values guide how we do business—how we interact with each other internally as well as with the millions of instructors, students, and partners that make up our global udemy community so, what makes life at... careers february 5, 2019 we’re excited to welcome gregg coccari as our new ceo! we’re excited to welcome gregg coccari as our new ceo gregg brings more than 30 years of leadership experience to udemy and previously held ceo positions at stella and chewy’s, futuredontics, netquote, and teleflora we are happy to welcome gregg as our new leader to further accelerate udemy’s mission of... december 27, 2018 five ways workplaces will change for the better in 2019 we’re probably all feeling the tension between the changes affecting our work lives right now and the ones still on the horizon but likely coming soon we’re already seeing some of these trends gain steam, while others are just materializing and have yet to fully form without further ado, i’ll throw my hat... darren shimkus december 17, 2018 udemy’s 2018 year in review we’ve made another trip around the sun, so it’s time to look back on what we’ve accomplished this past year thanks to all of the udemy instructors and students who’ve spent time and effort making and taking courses and improving lives through learning with us people innovators by udemy for business this... september 19, 2018 2018 employee experience research report udemy’s back with another report on how employees are feeling about the world of work and their place in it in response to our latest survey, employees overall rated their experience as positive, but some groups feel they receive less support and career development and others perceive age and gender biases... udemy research august 15, 2018 meet udemy’s 2018 interns written by summer intern jen neary ahh, time sure does fly when you’re having fun this summer, 12 students and recent graduates (myself included) were fortunate enough to intern at udemy here in san francisco although the internship came and went in the blink of an eye, we formed connections that will last well... august 1, 2018 a udemy live full of udemy love summer intern jen neary wrote this udemy live recap for us thanks, jen! this past weekend was our third annual udemy live here in san francisco, but it was my very first! along with the rest of the company, i have been eagerly awaiting this weekend, and, let me tell you, it did not disappoint with over 200... instructor successudemy live posts navigation 1 2 3 … 14 all #irl students instructors ideas & opinions udemy news udemy for business social innovation udemy for business become an instructor mobile apps about us careers blog topics support affiliate english deutsch español português japanese copyright @ 2020 udemy, inc. terms privacy policy and cookie policy intellectual property