editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. news latest 7 mins ago ‘three busiest days we’ve ever had’: new yorkers are swamping 911 with covid-19 calls 18 mins ago trump yells for companies to produce ventilators while dithering on specifics 38 mins ago house passes $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill uk pm boris johnson becomes the first world leader to contract coronavirus london, england - may 02: boris johnson the u.k. foreign secretary arrives at 10 downing street as the cabinet meet to discuss post-brexit customs plans on may 2, 2018 in london, england. (photo by steve back/getty images) by cristina cabrera | march 27, 2020 8:43 a.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. british prime minister boris johnson announced on friday that he had tested positive for covid-19, making him the first major world leader to come down with the virus. “over the last 24 hours i have developed mild symptoms and tested positive for coronavirus,” he said in a statement via twitter. “i am now self-isolating, but i will continue to lead the government’s response via video-conference as we fight this virus.” the announcement included a video in which johnson explained that he had taken the test after coming down with a fever and “persistent cough.” earlier this month, the prime minister had brushed off the coronavirus and the necessity of social distancing, telling reporters that he was still “shaking hands.” “i was at a hospital the other night where i think a few there were actually coronavirus patients and i shook hands with everybody, you’ll be pleased to know, and i continue to shake hands,” he said. cristina cabrera (@crismcabrera) is a newswriter at tpm based in new york. she previously worked for vocativ, usa today and ny1 news. have a tip? send it here! includes: boris johnsoncovid-19ukunited kingdom more in news 7 mins ago ‘three busiest days we’ve ever had’: new yorkers are swamping 911 with covid-19 calls 18 mins ago trump yells for companies to produce ventilators while dithering on specifics 38 mins ago house passes $2 trillion coronavirus relief bill comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy