home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact menu home destinations africa morocco asia hong kong india indonesia japan jordan malaysia myanmar / burma nepal vietnam australia & oceania australia new zealand europe austria belgium czech republic denmark england faroe islands france germany greece hungary iceland italy netherlands norway latvia poland portugal russia scotland slovakia spain svalbard turkey ukraine north america cuba saint lucia united states south america argentina brazil colombia patagonia travel map about portfolio work with me blog contact search close discover the places you didn't know existed. read more about facebook twitter instagram est 2012 hi, i’m shing from the uk and i live in london. welcome to my travel blog – the culture map. you’ll find tips, guides, recommendations and the odd misadventure from my travels that span over 50 countries and 6 continents. i’ve written about many places, but in my archive there’s a strong focus on scandinavia and the arctic. it may be chilly up there, but my gosh, it’s beautiful! read more about shing stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send heading north scandinavia & the arctic regions i’ve travelled extensively throughout scandinavia and i’m hopelessly in love with it. people often have many questions about this region, including the area that lies above the arctic circle. this blog attempts to answer them. norway probably the world’s most beautiful country. experience norway’s dramatic coastline, towering waterfalls and mountain peaks. read more… sweden sweden has a reputation for beautiful people, but the country herself is a stunner too! explore the western coastline, the cool capital of stockholm, or where not head further up north where the hotels get quirkier and quirkier? read more… denmark experience the laid-back energy of copenhagen, the stylish architecture of aarhus and the chance to explore the stunning coastline and countryside of this small but perfectly formed country. read more… faroe islands raw, wild and magical are just of the few of the words that describe these northerly lands comprising of 18 islands. read more… read the street art guide of shoreditch, london march 24, 2020 travel advice and information during the coronavirus pandemic march 20, 2020 getting the train between granada, cordoba & seville in andalucia march 18, 2020 new york pizza guide: where to go for the city’s best slice march 3, 2020 fez: where moroccan arts and crafts traditions still thrive february 26, 2020 the legendary penis of drukpa kunley in bhutan february 15, 2020 all recent posts previous next all the travel advice you need for 2 weeks in iceland the ultimate itinerary for spending two weeks in the land of fire & ice. read more my travel map useful links home about blog work with me press popular iceland norway japan patagonia england facebook twitter instagram stay updated join my monthly newsletter for travel guides & tips email send