wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » blog » beginners guide » ultimate list of wordpress stats, facts, and other research ultimate list of wordpress stats, facts, and other research last updated on august 31st, 2018 by editorial staff 233 shares share tweet share pin recently one of our readers asked us to provide some wordpress stats, facts, and research to help convince their boss on why they should use wordpress. even though wordpress is the most popular website builder in the world, sometimes popularity alone is not enough for users to make up their mind. in this article, we have compiled an ultimate list of wordpress stats, facts, and other research that will help you convince others to start using wordpress. the basics: what is wordpress? wordpress is an open source software that allows users to make a website. it is available for download as a free software and can be installed on any wordpress hosting company. it’s important not to confuse wordpress (the software) with wordpress.com which is a hosted solution. to learn more, see the difference between wordpress.com vs wordpress.org in our side-by-side comparison. it all started when two users of a blogging software called b2/cafelog decided to take the software in a new direction. the idea was coined by matt mullenweg who was then joined by mark little and together they released the first version of wordpress on may 27, 2003. since then, wordpress has evolved from a simple blogging software to a cms, website builder, ecommerce platform, and more. to learn more, see our article about the history of wordpress. wordpress is a community software and thousands of users from all over the world have contributed to it by submitting code, fixing bugs, translating, testing, and helping others use it. let’s take a look at some wordpress stats and facts to see how wordpress is helping people do great things on the internet. how popular is wordpress? wordpress is immensely popular and is used by millions of people all over the world. here are some numbers to put things in perspective. wordpress powers more than 30% of all websites on the internet. it also holds nearly 60% of cms market share. no other website builder software comes close. wordpress powers websites for big name brands including disney, sony, facebook, and more. 14.7% of top 100 websites are powered by wordpress. more than 22% of all new domain names in the united states are running wordpress. each day more than 1014 wordpress sites and 496 woocommerce stores join the top 10 million websites tracked by w3techs. wordpress plugins plugins are like apps for your wordpress website. you can install them to add new features to your site and extend its functionality. to learn more, see our guide on what are wordpress plugins and how do they work?. here are some mind-blowing facts about wordpress plugins, which show just how massive the wordpress ecosystem is. there are more than 50,000 free wordpress plugins on wordpress.org plugin directory alone. 3 of those plugins are installed on 5 million+ websites. 19 top wordpress plugins are installed on more than 1 million websites. the most popular ecommerce plugin, woocommerce is installed on more than 3 million websites with 43 million all time downloads. these stats are from wordpress.org plugin directory alone. many plugin developers sell premium versions of their plugins from their own websites. with a healthy plugins ecosystem, it means that you can add custom functionality to your website at a fraction of the cost of custom development. wordpress themes themes control the appearance of a wordpress website. these are wordpress specific website design templates that you can install on your website to change its look. there are thousands of free and paid wordpress themes available offering wordpress users an endless combination of design, layout, color schemes, and features. themes were first introduced with wordpress 1.5 back in 2005, with the first new default wordpress theme called kubrick just like plugins, there are both free and paid wordpress themes that you can install. wordpress.org’s free theme directory has more than 5,800 free wordpress themes. according to builtwith, genesis theme framework is the most popular theme used by 17% of websites analyzed by their service. thousands of themes are sold by commercial wordpress theme shops with an average price of $40 per theme. wordpress security wordpress is the most commonly used cms software in the world, which also makes it a common target of hacking attempts, ddos attacks, malware, and trojans. according to sucuri, a leading website security company, 83% of all cms based websites that were hacked in 2017 were running wordpress. this number isn’t surprising considering that wordpress holds 60% of cms market share. sucuri also reported that 39% of hacked wordpress websites were using an outdated version of the software. that’s why you should always use the latest version of wordpress on your website. nearly 50% wordpress sites are affected by a security vulnerability caused by an outdated or poorly coded wordpress plugin or theme around 8% of wordpress sites were hacked due to a weak password. you can make your wordpress site as secure as possible by following some basic security best practices. to learn more, see our complete wordpress security guide for step by step instructions. often the stats above cause wordpress to get a bad reputation, but the reality is that wordpress itself is not insecure. wordpress core goes through rigorous security audits, and it’s more secure than many other platforms out there. the only fault wordpress has is that it’s popular which leads to stats like above. wordpress community wordpress has a massive user base spread across all over the world. it is used by not just businesses, but also governments, schools and colleges, non-profits, and more. as an open source project, wordpress is driven by a global community of users. this means that anyone can contribute to the project in many different ways. wordpress translation community has it fully translated into 56 languages, partially translated in dozens more. in 2017, wordpress communities around the world organized 128 wordcamp events, in 48 countries, and sold 39,625 tickets. in 2017, local wordpress communities organized 4,379 meetups in 73 countries if you want to contribute to wordpress, then see our guide on how to get involved with wordpress project. the wordpress economy wordpress has a thriving billion dollar ecosystem that creates thousands of jobs all over the world. this also includes freelancers, developers, and companies that sell wordpress related products and services. at the time of writing this article, freelancer.com website alone had 564,010 wordpress jobs posted out of these 13,680 were open. thousands of wordpress jobs are currently open on many popular freelancing websites. average hourly rate for wordpress developers can be anywhere between $20-$100 per hour depending on their expertise and job at hand. a custom wordpress theme with its own unique design and plugins can cost $10,000 and it may increase depending on project’s requirements. there are hundreds of small and large businesses, agencies, and developers selling wordpress related products. see our list of the most influential wordpress businesses and companies and what they do. we hope this article helped you discover some new wordpress stats, facts, and interesting research. you may also want to see our article + infograph on 25 interesting facts about wordpress. if you liked this article, then please subscribe to our youtube channel for wordpress video tutorials. you can also find us on twitter and facebook. 233 shares share tweet share pin popular on wpbeginner right now! revealed: why building an email list is so important today (6 reasons) checklist: 15 things you must do before changing wordpress themes how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress how to start your own podcast (step by step) about the editorial staff editorial staff at wpbeginner is a team of wordpress experts led by syed balkhi. trusted by over 1.3 million readers worldwide. 1 commentleave a reply felipe chusyd says: may 30, 2018 at 12:44 pm great article! congratulations! i’m working with that plattform since seven years ago. i love wordpress for everything that it offers to one’s capabilities. best regards. reply leave a reply cancel reply thanks for choosing to leave a comment. please keep in mind that all comments are moderated according to our comment policy, and your email address will not be published. please do not use keywords in the name field. let's have a personal and meaningful conversation. don't subscribe all replies to my comments notify me of followup comments via e-mail. you can also subscribe without commenting. over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin wpforms drag & drop wordpress form builder plugin. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide deals & coupons (view all) themetrust coupon get 20% off on all themetrust themes brought to you by henry jones. astra theme coupon get 10% off on the purchase of astra wordpress theme. featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.