skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download ultimate carousel for wpbakery page builder by nasir details reviews installation support development description with ultimate carousel, you can create carousels for any kind of your content. we’ve integrated into wpbakery page builder to bring you a very flexible, very lightweight and very intuitive carousel creation system. carousel anything is responsive and touch enabled. in touch devices, you can drag and swipe the carousel to move it. wpbakery page builder (formerly visual composer) plugin must be installed and activated to use this plugin. after you activate the required plugins, the elements should be available for use in wpbakery page builder. quick links image carousel demo post/grid demo how to use image carousel how to use post/grid carousel documentation and help premium version features turn any content into a carousel (images, image with text,) post carousel and post grid design slider with content image slider video showcases, testimonials team members dots, arrows or none screenshots installation go to plugins in your dashboard and select ‘add new’. search for ‘ultimate carousel for wpbakery page builder’ and install it. go to pages and create design with help of viusal composer page builder. fill some additional informations. now visit your site reviews works ok aurovrata venet april 5, 2019 the free version is so limited that it isn't worth using. after the last slide, a blank slide is inserted before looping back to the first slide. that looks like a bug to me. amazing plugin. fantastic support dave517 march 6, 2019 the plugin really does what it needs to do, nothing more nothing less.the imgs where missing alt tags, but after writing on the forum about it, it got fixed in half an hour! amazing support! display posts by name not working metodija january 24, 2019 hi guys, great plugin? when using the carouse post, the individual post names don't work when you want to display posts. it is a bug, not sure if this is limited with the free version. i know how to fix it, i am then happy to commit changes or if anyone needs help let me know. thanks every image of carousel shows in new row dreamgarg19 october 23, 2018 every image shows in new row, i have tried everything with it. however, support was also not received after waiting for 2 weeks. nice plugin. awesome support! mattxr7c october 5, 2018 the carousels fit my needs well and the support was very fast and helpful! light weight and works great ikirby august 25, 2018 i was looking for a super light weight plugin/addon without too many additional features and styles, as it would be adjusted for our style anyway. the zip is only 600kb and all setting right inside of the element itself - no addition menu item in wp control panel (which i hate in other plugins). i did not expect to see that there are three elements included and not only simple slider which is great! thank you and hope my search is over and we will enjoy your addon. read all 13 reviews contributors & developers “ultimate carousel for wpbakery page builder” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors nasir179125 translate “ultimate carousel for wpbakery page builder” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 2.6 slide to show options for pc, tab and for mobile devices. bug fixed: post/grid stopped to visible in new wordpress version 5.2.2 anchor tag added in post image. bug fixed & performance improvements. 2.5 bug fixed: sometimes slider stop to show due to bootstrap overloading files 2.4 bug fixed: slider create blank space or empty slide minor bug fixed 2.3 bug fixed: plugin auto remove p tags from paragraph 2.2 added: now you can display post carousel added: show as post grid layout 2.0 minor bug fixed 1.0 first version meta version: 2.6 last updated: 3 weeks ago active installations: 10,000+ wordpress version: 3.5 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 tags: visual composerwpbakery page builder advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 12 4 stars 0 3 stars 1 2 stars 0 1 star 0 contributors nasir179125 support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum donate would you like to support the advancement of this plugin? donate to this plugin about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.