skip to content college info geek ultralearning (ep. 288) menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills remote view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new remote work, learn, and succeed from the comforts of your own home. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search ultralearning (ep. 288) martin boehme last updated february 10, 2020 c.i.g. is supported in part by its readers. if you buy through our links, we may earn an affiliate commission. read more here. last year, i stumbled across scott young’s book, ultralearning: master hard skills, outsmart the competition, and accelerate your career. now, at this point, i’ve read about as many productivity and skill books as i’m interested in for a while, so i thought i’d skip this one. but then, i saw this: this is ridiculous. look at that growth! this image was all i needed to believe this book would have at least a bit of fresh inspiration for me, and i was right. so listen to this, check out the book, get inspired, and start learning something. things mentioned in this episode: this week’s episode is sponsored by: skillshare: with thousands of courses in a wide range of different skills, skillshare can help you take things to the next level. if you’re one of the first 500 to use this link, you can also get started with 2 free months of unlimited learning (including thomas’ new habit-building class!) at skillshare.com/geek. dashlane can help make your online experience safer and more convenient with password management, vpn, form filling and more. head over to dashlane.com/collegeinfogeek for a free 30-day trial, and once you’ve fallen in love you can use the code ‘collegeinfogeek’ for 10% off your subscription. other things we mentioned in this episode: ultralearning, by scott young thomas’ habit-building course on skillshare smart passive income listen money matters polyphonic on youtube better ideas on youtube linus tech tips on youtube scott young’s 30 day portrait drawing challenge fluent in 3 months this guy edits on youtube 10 youtube channels you should follow in 2020 chrystopher rhodes’ video on a budget course on skillshare the most powerful way to remember what you study anki (ios | android) italki (ios | android) want more cool stuff? you can find all sorts of great tools at my resources page. timestamps: 0:01:59 – overview 0:09:30 – metalearning 0:14:05 – focusing 0:21:01 – directness 0:25:12 – sponsor: skillshare (learning new skills) 0:28:34 – sponsor: dashlane (managing your passwords) 0:30:27 – drilling 0:36:08 – retrieval 0:44:43 – feedback 0:52:57 – retention 1:02:39 – intuition 1:10:15 – experimentation 1:14:57 – conclusion if you enjoyed this episode, subscribe to the podcast on itunes! it’s easy, you’ll get new episodes automatically, and it also helps the show gain exposure 🙂 you can also leave a review! here’s an image for sharing this episode on social media: want to earn better grades? did you find this article useful? over 220,000 awesome students are learning how to dominate their classes, get more done, and land the jobs they want — and you should too. join in, and i'll also send you a free copy of my book on earning better grades! get the book free read these next… 35+ high school graduation gifts any grad will love graduating high school is an exciting time full of possibilities. here are over 35 high school graduation gifts perfect for celebrating this special time. 10 ways to improve your social skills and be more outgoing socializing can be a struggle, especially if you're an introvert. here are 10 techniques you can use to make socializing easier. popular posts the ultimate guide to building a personal website how to easily stay organized and productive in college how to make an extra $1,000 a month (25 ways that actually work) 50 of the best personal website and portfolio examples in 2020 more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.