skip to content menu about us our ethos contact us our services tourism development strategy product development marketing & campaigns training & facilitation sustainability marketing tourism development case study tourism development model tourism industry insights speaking travel industry talks university speaking topics sustainable tourism experiential travel guides trekking guides personal growth food guides destinations blog resources menu about us our ethos contact us our services tourism development strategy product development marketing & campaigns training & facilitation sustainability marketing tourism development case study tourism development model tourism industry insights speaking travel industry talks university speaking topics sustainable tourism experiential travel guides trekking guides personal growth food guides destinations blog resources travel. adventure. people. planet. care. choose your path. tourism development travel inspiration we are daniel noll and audrey scott, the husband-and-wife team behind uncornered market. through our tourism development advisory, stories and advocacy, and speaking we are advancing a movement of travelers, businesses and destinations at the intersection of adventure, travel, and caring for our planet and its people. we help travel brands and tourism organizations develop sustainable and community-driven products and destinations through our strategy and implementation work. through our award-winning blog, we also connect travelers to meaningful experiences as they travel the world with curiosity and respect. join us! more about us work with us tourism development & consulting project portfolio strategic planning learn more product development learn more marketing & campaigns learn more training & facilitation learn more sustainability marketing learn more speaking & keynotes learn more latest clients & projects featured in travel inspiration & resources blog stories from around the world focused on travel and personal growth; sustainable tourism, food and adventure. read the latest destinations looking to explore the world in a new and different way? check out our in-depth destination articles, guides & stories. explore the world resources practical planning travel tips and recommendations for gear and companies we use and trust on our trips. plan your trip featured topics & articles sustainable tourism travel with purpose featured article: 20 sustainable travel tips: how to be a good global traveler experiential travel guides go deep, go local featured article: 13 offbeat destinations you’re not considering, but should trekking guides immerse yourself in nature featured article: 15 offbeat treks that you’re not considering, but should food guides eat local, eat well featured article: 50 favorite street food dishes from around the world personal growth travel wide, live deep featured article: the 7 habits of highly effective travelers planning & travel tips expert insider advice featured article: protect thy passport: safety tips for your passport join the uncornered market newsletter for travel wisdom, stories & advice from 10+ years of traveling the world! sign up now latest articles meditations on the coronavirus and the tourism industry by daniel noll and audrey scott posted in tourism industry insights what will be the impact of the coronavirus on tourism and travel? how will the tourism industry respond? definitive answers don't exist. instead, we offer some ideas for destinations, travel companies and travelers to operate from a position of strength, … continue reading the climate crisis in travel: are we missing the bigger picture? by daniel noll and audrey scott posted in sustainable tourism, tourism industry insights as we respond to the climate crisis and consider tourism’s role in it, we wonder if we might be missing a bigger picture – and a greater opportunity — by focusing so squarely on flights. we offer some research and … continue reading our offbeat travel list: 13 destinations you're not considering…but should by audrey scott posted in travel, travel tips there is certainly no shortage of “hot travel destinations” or “best places to visit in 2020” lists circulating these days. but, we find that most of these lists include many of the usual or well-known travel destinations. as we field … continue reading how street food is the ultimate travel guide: 50 favorite street food dishes by audrey scott posted in food, world cuisine guides food and travel, one of life’s great experience intersections. although we enjoy our share of refined cuisine and elaborate meals at restaurants, it’s often our street food quests around the world — raw on-the-ground journeys that convey authenticity — that … continue reading trekking around the world: 15 best offbeat treks that you're not considering…but should by audrey scott posted in travel, treks around the world after over a decade of traveling around the world and going trekking on six continents, what are some of our favorite treks and hikes? this offbeat trekking guide includes 15 of our recommended unknown or lesser-known treks — some multi-day, … continue reading copyright © 2020, uncornered market. be nice, don't steal. scroll back to top