0 letter to a stranger behind the feature essays about donate jobs back letter to a stranger images of america back no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say back letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives letter to a stranger letter to a stranger images of america behind the feature essays no equivalent under the influence what i didn't say about letter from the editors masthead submit triptionary archives donatejobs the detour is the story 0 under the influence have you ever wandered in the footsteps of a favorite writer? featured stødi alexander lumans how not to leave the arctic circle stødi alexander lumans “i couldn’t help but feel as strange to them as an alien arrived on their snowy, scandinavian planet: hungry, anxious, in search of connections. now, like me, the two of them were also looking up with expectation.” stødi alexander lumans aberdeen, scotland ruth katcher books in the attic: on the weirdness of reading harper lee in scotland aberdeen, scotland ruth katcher crouched in the attic, i read to kill a mockingbird, transported 4,200 miles from scotland to alabama. aberdeen, scotland ruth katcher paris, france lilly dancyger in search of smoky cafes paris, france lilly dancyger they asked us about new york, and i saw in their eyes that they romanticized our city as much as we did theirs, and wondered if they would be disappointed if they visited. or if, on their last night, they might find exactly what they’d hoped for. paris, france lilly dancyger kolkata, india liesl schwabe jhumpa lahiri, hand-painted buses, and arriving in kolkata kolkata, india liesl schwabe i thought i was reading to take me back, in geography and in my own life. a way to revisit the teeming humanity on the train platform. the cardamom boiling in the milk for tea. the bitter smoke of morning air. a way to turn from the last page back to the first. kolkata, india liesl schwabe lucca, italy kavita das doozy miller: the spoiling of henry james lucca, italy kavita das doozy miller’s margin notes held curious revelations, which only underscored how james unabashedly layers anti-american sentiment with chauvinism. lucca, italy kavita das catalonia, spain meg bernhard waiting for the harvest in catalonia catalonia, spain meg bernhard barbara pursed her lips and said we would begin the harvest in a few days. i would stomp the grapes with my bare feet and purple my palms. we would make wine, for better or worse. catalonia, spain meg bernhard tbilisi, georgia bethany marcel on failure and beautiful quiet: reading jack gilbert in tbilisi tbilisi, georgia bethany marcel i wanted to climb toward the hugeness of the world and to cobble love together. i wanted to know exile, like gilbert. tbilisi, georgia bethany marcel hudson river valley, new york sophie haigney on love, leaving, and richard serra hudson river valley, new york sophie haigney at the center, the ellipse was a shelter, a hurricane’s eye, an intake of breath. i wanted to lay down there, to hold his hand, never to leave. hudson river valley, new york sophie haigney new york city annie lloyd eve babitz on the run new york city annie lloyd according to jacaranda, the protagonist of eve babitz’s sex and rage, “california was the only conceivable place on earth to be.” new york city annie lloyd jökulsárlón, iceland mina hamedi dracula, runes and the midnight sun jökulsárlón, iceland mina hamedi i was sure there were missing pages or i was misremembering the story of dracula. i soon realized, though, that i wasn’t looking for an exquisitely crafted translation or even a new understanding of dracula. rather, i was reveling in the fact that one of my favorite stories had made its way to my favorite place in the world. jökulsárlón, iceland mina hamedi paris, france jeanna kadlec exile in paris: on revolutionary letters and quitting grad school paris, france jeanna kadlec in paris, all i saw were the seams, threadbare. a ghost’s shadows whipping around my ankles in every arrondissement. paris, france jeanna kadlec joshua tree sarah goodyear the wonder valley desert of gram parsons joshua tree sarah goodyear after the killing was done, the deep silence of the desert returned, and i must have fallen back asleep quickly. when i awoke at sunrise, the whole thing seemed like a dream. i went to pee in the outhouse, and when i was done i ventured into the dawn-washed desert, looking for the kill site, for any evidence of what i had heard. joshua tree sarah goodyear haworth, england chelsea ennen the brontë sisters and the lonely moors of haworth haworth, england chelsea ennen the town of haworth looks more or less like it has for the past several hundred years, which is to say, like a fairy tale town. haworth, england chelsea ennen storm king mountain rachel veroff to ask a question of a tombstone storm king mountain rachel veroff the whole park is like this: lake and sky, gloom and glass. time itself passes according to its own rules: the sun rises and sets, shadows spin like sundials, years go by in seconds, tree leaves curl up and fall. storm king mountain rachel veroff manhattan, new york benjamin harnett the long commute: from ancient scrolls to modern screens manhattan, new york benjamin harnett the historian is like merlin, living backwards from the future, knowing what the world is, but having to infer why. as we peer into the past, the view grows less distinct, until it vanishes in a fog. manhattan, new york benjamin harnett san francisco, california sophie haigney on joan didion, california wildfires, cryptohackers and all that san francisco, california sophie haigney while much of the media was focused on the summer of love, didion focused on the darker side. the country was not in open revolt, but there was a brewing discontent. san francisco, california sophie haigney read more in the studio get the "dear stranger" newsletter. each week, a real letter in your inbox. email address write me thank you! "at the edges of language, caught between here and elsewhere, there is hope that if we look out of the corners of our eyes, we can sometimes catch the metaphors lying round about, hidden in the most ordinary words, in wait for the possibility of surprise." —richard deming © off assignment / offassignment@gmail.com