skip to content unidentified signal source a blog about life, gaming, and everything. menu home about contact twitter something new – the outer worlds march 21, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment i must admit, i did rather enjoy this title. gameplay-wise it reminds me of mass effect, but with a slightly firefly feel to it. it starts very early with the heavy-handed “trolley problem” style dilemmas that gave mass effect its gravity. the main story and the companion side stories were fairly compelling, though at times they seem slightly cut short. still, i’m sitting here writing this after having finished the main story and most of the side content, taking around 34 hours or so to complete. i don’t really intend to talk about the story as much as the setting and my reaction to it. see, it is by random chance that i’m playing it right now, but it seems eerily relevant to current events. its strange brand of corporate dystopia is just familiar enough that it seems almost a commentary on events that didn’t occur until after its release. as an exaggerated reflection of current corporate culture, it leaves me both angry and depressed. it loses its value as an escape from current events because it constantly reminds me of them. fortunately, we do not live in such a society. not really. i really wish they had fleshed the setting out a bit more. the “current events” and people of the setting seem solid and believable. even the villain’s motivation is reasonable and relatable. what i’m talking about are the institutions and places that exist. why do these specific corporations exist? who founded them? who runs them? why is vicar max the only priest we meet in the entire game? there’s supposed to be this large organized religion and the only other evidence of it i saw was a ruined church on another planet. the characters are beautiful and wonderful but exist against a backdrop that seems… incomplete. still, i enjoyed a good playthrough, and now it’s time to move on to other things. it was, overall, a compelling story with a satisfying enough ending. y’all take care. research – virtual good volatility? march 20, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ 2 comments i’ve spent a fair amount of time lately considering exactly what it is i would like to get from my data. what questions do i wish to answer and how exactly should i structure that… query. in the meantime, i’ve been working on different ways to sort and recombine data. nq iron ore daily for the entire data center. i just realized that i’m quickly approaching the one month mark, my original intended stopping point. i’m… not sure i’m ready to stop. logically i have to stop eventually, but the longer i collect data the more likely it is that inflation and arbitrage will become detectable. the mean price for that specific iron ore data is 141 gil/unit with a standard deviation of 44 gil. even if inflation was absurd, say 10%, that would only be a 14 gil increase. that kind of number is easily lost within the volatility, and i’m pretty confident it’s not anyway near that high. at a glance, iron looks more deflated over this time period than anything else. that’s assuming it’s even fair to lump an entire data center together like that. i’m not sure it is for iron but i’m not certain exactly how to test that. savage aim 8 for primal data center i suspect it’s more helpful to combine items like materia that i know to experience some level of arbitrage. (m=32162, std.d=2793) it also has a much more reasonable standard deviation than iron ore. iron’s is 31% of the mean while savage aim 8 is closer to 9%. is that even a reasonable way to measure volatility? is it a good indicator of arbitrage? must think about this. that said, i need to double-check those prices at some point. if you randomly asked me what the typical buying price was, i’d say 15k-25k. i think that’s because i usually only see the ten lowest price listings, but i’d like to confirm a few manually just to be sure. okay, well, i’ve written and deleted several different paragraphs at this point, so i believe i’m done for now. it is my intention to write a post about the outer worlds tomorrow. i can’t tell if its particular brand of corporate dystopia is appropriate, timely, or offensive at the moment. maybe all of the above, but it certainly isn’t helping my mood. y’all stay safe and take care. it’s not the best choice, it’s spacer’s choice. viral unemployment march 19, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment the latest unemployment numbers for the us have just come out, and new claims are 281k. [dol] this is up by 70k compared to last week, something to the tune of a 33% increase. to be fair, this is expected. when you begin shutting down entire sectors of the economy you end up with a bunch of displaced workers. there was a time, twelve years, three months, and nineteen days ago that i myself was part of a mass layoff. it took about a year but to quote the business “everyone who wanted to return has come back.” as they needed additional people to cover natural attrition they called people and offered them the chance to return. the layoff was effective jan 1st and i believe the first group came back in early to mid-march. right about now in relation to the beginning of the year, though it feels quite a bit longer in the moment. it’s hard to say, amidst the uncertainty, how quickly those jobs are going to come back to the industries affected this time. i have… no good way to speculate on that. if things have settled by “vacation season” then it might not be too bad. for travel, lodging, and food service, anyway. there is a “continued unemployment” metric, but it has an extra week of lag time. but right now, there are at least 281k people without a job who had one last week. for perspective, bloomberg says “during the worst week of the great recession, the last week of march 2009, claims reached 665,000.” [link] i would like to point out that this “worst week” was around the same time my own employer began bringing people back. different strokes and all that. on the bright side, we’re not there, so that’s good. i suspect it’s going to stay high for several weeks though. manufacturing, at least, seems disinclined to slow any more than it must. to their credit, people don’t stop buying entirely and today’s “lean” supply chains try not to hold a lot of extra inventory. of course, this isn’t what i intended to write about today, but it’s on my mind and needs processing. i fear it is much more… real… than what i want to write about, but also more important. as it stands right now, i’m still working in the foreseeable future. not from home, but in the same environment i share with a couple thousand other people. i do not believe this is a wise choice, but my direct coworker is at greater risk than i am, so here we are. i highly suspect they will end up shutting down entirely, but that’s only because they’ve already done more than i thought they would. at the very least, a week from now when people start popping up symptomatic they won’t be able to locate enough “unexposed” workers to sustain production. a single parts handler could easily expose half a line or more plus all the other parts handlers. i cannot help but feel that continued production is… irresponsible. time will tell, i suppose. i’ll be back tomorrow(ish) with something research-related, and i’ve got some actual gaming-related stuff in the works too. y’all take care and stay safe out there. contemplating the pros and cons of shutting things down march 17, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment i find myself at this strange sort of emotional impasse. i consider the “social distancing” policies being used to slow down covid-19 infection rates and the 50 or fewer people gathered in one location rule. this is now down to around 10 people. yet here i sit, surrounded by 1,000 or so. any hundred or so are within 5 feet of two others at all times. some are old, some are pregnant, some have small children. they’re all touching the same product as it moves from one station to the next. any one person could easily expose dozens “downstream.” meanwhile, with schools halted and the university system moving to online-only for the remainder of the semester, the primary routes of infection are me and my wife. since she works for the school system her exposure is limited to trips to the not-very-crowded gym, leaving me as the most likely vector of transmission into the home. i was already an avid handwasher and my interaction with others in a physical contact sense is limited, but i’m not exactly comfortable with this thought. on the other hand, my internal economist is upset. every canceled event brings a sigh and every business shut down is followed with a wince. there is a price to be paid for these sorts of things. every one of those is not just a blow to the infamous gdp, but directly impacts workers in related industries. all those hotel stays canceled, meals unordered, taxis untaken. those workers relied on that activity and macroeconomic costs aside, the human cost seems… immense. even in my case, i’m already shouldering the burden of buying extra food for children that normally eat at school with one less income than i had previously. the idea of finding a way to make ends meet on my unemployment benefits, about half my normal weekly income, is… concerning. especially considering how slow that system is. i can expect at least one week with no pay at all, possibly more if the system is suddenly flooded with requests. on the other hand, it’s not fair to place the fiscal needs of any group or individual above the health of another. human life is irreplaceable. if i could know that shutting down anything would save someone’s life i’d do my best to be out the door. of course, this isn’t really news to anyone at this point. it reminds me of 2008, but instead of coming out of nowhere we all know it’s coming and we’re waiting for the other shoe to drop. for all that terror, though, and the pros and cons of stopping production v. running (there is no right answer), our giant ball of hot gas will continue illuminating the world tomorrow. accept that good won’t last, and acknowledge that bad won’t either. pic.twitter.com/jr4avxxqdp — skullbird (@skullbird) december 20, 2019 that’s probably my single most favorite panel from the series. i actually have a small copy printed out and keep it on my desk. the whole situation blows, worldwide, and we may as well do our best to remember that the bad times will not last. we as a species have weathered worse and survived to tell the tale. ffxiv – actual data and wild speculation march 13, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment since i’ve spent so much time lately writing about my research project, i felt it was time to actually share some of the results. most of it is of little practical value. the iron was included more for the sake of being thorough and making sure i have a way to confirm things are or aren’t the same as last time. the thing that stands out the most to me is how much higher the quantity supplied is now. my previous data had a total daily supply of around 1500 units and the average here is closer to 2600 units. of course, there’s the 7th with a rather wild 8,406 units. the market concentration (hhi) is consistent with what i saw before. we can also ignore the elasticity here. i would need a sig below .05 to have anything useful. i’m a little disappointed, but life goes on. behemoth is a little more exciting, but not much. the price is much higher now than it was before. my two prior data points put the average unit price around 75-85 gil. the total quantity supplied is also significantly lower. last time it was around 6000-9000 units v. the average here of around 2000. taken together i suppose it makes sense. a decrease in quantity supplied should lead to a higher price, assuming we’re around the equilibrium. also an increase in concentration, though not by a lot. for something slightly more interesting, there’s high-quality gold ore from lamia. fairly stable concentration compared to iron. however, what got my attention was the elasticity that not only got three significant results but results that were fairly similar. now, elasticity is telling us the percentage change in quantity with regard to price. since this is supply data, what people are attempting to sell, it should be positive. i saw this once before when i had my terms backward in the formula, but i’ve double and triple checked it and that’s not the case. so, the question becomes why? what could possibly be occurring in this market to create a negative relationship? that is, when the price is high people actually list fewer units, and when the price is low people list more units. at the moment, i’m wondering if this is a result of undercutting. what would it look like if the people listing new material were actively and significantly posting below the current asking price? in particular, what if you have a few major suppliers doing this so that any time a notable increase in quantity occurs it drives the average price down? of course, i would have to go take a closer look at the day to day happenings in the market. might be worthwhile to add the daily deltas for quantity and sellers. while the data is over here doing its own thing, it seems that the world has gotten quite hairy. y’all take care, be safe, and wash your hands. have a bonus materia table: data analysis – curious case of price and quantity changes march 11, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment the realities of working with real data are rather unique and intriguing. i find no end of strange unforeseen quirks that i’m never entirely certain how to handle. i’m working through the nuts and bolts of importing and processing my market data for ffxiv. as a side note, i must admit i underestimated r. so, big data plan aside, i was attempting to consolidate 13 days of market data into a single data set. while most of the shenanigans revolved around navigating the ins and outs of data structure manipulation. i was, however, victorious! kinda. forgot to include headers. that’s server, hq, unit price, retainer name, city-state, and total quantity for that unique combination, respectively. i ended up with some interesting entries like this one. my current sorting method considers these two separate entries because the price is different. in reality, it’s the same 205 units from two different time periods. the seller just dropped the price at some point. if i were to consider the entire collection as a whole data set what should be done with this? which is more accurate, the higher listing or the lower listing? both represent a legitimate attempt to sell goods. in reality, i don’t plan to treat all days combined as a single data set. i’m going to run the stats on a per-day basis. daily average unit price, total quantity, concentration, and elasticity for each good/server combination. that should allow me to see how these things are generally behaving over time and support good v. good and server v. server comparisons between data sets. elasticity is the odd man out though. since it will be obtained using regression in the first place, i have to consider the value of retaining insignificant results in the data set. i could be off base here, but i believe that insignificant in the statistical sense simply indicates that there isn’t a clear relationship between q and p. might be worthwhile to compare the result of significant only v. all values just to see what there is to see. anyway, i’m off track. having the same set of goods listed multiple times so that 205 units show up in the result as 410 units was not the only instance of something like this occurring. i picked this example out as well, for that reason. i actually went and looked over the day-by-day data to see what was going on. a seller (not the same one as the other picture) initially posted 3 listings of 8 units each, a total of 24 units, at 210 gil. the very next day, they appear to have reduced the unit price to 147 gil. however, the goods sat there at that price for a couple of days before someone bought only a single 8 unit lot, which generated that 16 unit entry. it sat there for another day or two then someone bought another 8 unit lot, giving us the last entry, which also eventually sold. so now i have 24 units that would become 72, 24 at 210 and 48 at 147. i’m going to abandon that specific avenue of consolidation for now. i think if i date-stamped the records i could probably pull out the initial listing quantity and the final unit price, which would accurately read 24 units at 147 gil. i would rather invest my time in the “original” plan first then follow up with this if i feel it needs doing. y’all take care, and remember to go check all your listing prices. you never know when your change might be the one that generates a blog post. eve online – price precision february 28, 2020 ~ sdweasel ~ leave a comment i was reading wilhelm’s post the other day, ccp takes aim at undercutters and market bots in new eden, and i’ve spent a lot of time thinking about the price point changes. it seems like a very bizarre thing to do at first. as he pointed out, undercutters always gonna be undercutting. that’s how markets work. the smart marketeers only mark it down by one price increment or the least amount they think they need to sell. the amount of money given up to sell your item at one increment less is generally insignificant. even more so for high price, low quantity items. this is literally how markets reach an equilibrium. what ccp is/has done here changes things a little bit. now someone trying to maximize profit by undercutting may pause to consider if it’s really worth losing that much money. they’re increasing the “opportunity cost” of undercutting the market. instead of a price range that looks like ±10 isk in the image wilhelm used, that price would now be ±100,000 isk. if i want to undercut the lowest existing market price, it’s going to cost me 10,000 instead of 0.01. they claim to be trying to force people to use a price-oriented strategy and make constant listing management less important. […] the optimal strategy [is] “always create your orders at 0.01 isk above/below the current best order, and always update your order asap by 0.01 isk if it isn’t the highest buy or lowest sell.” competition between traders comes down to who (or what) can micro-manage their orders for the longest period of time, rather than who is making the most intelligent pricing decisions. – broker relations given how much attention cpc pays to eve’s economy, that noise reduction might make it easier to see what’s going on too. of course, that variation assumes people continue to undercut at a similar rate and increment count. there’s actually a slightly more sinister possibility as well that i hope they’ve considered. those now higher downward undercuts, across the entire economy, could lead to deflation. if enough people continue to undercut, the large jump in price point downward could lower the average price per unit significantly. i don’t think it would be an issue long term, but until all the tertiary material markets catch up profit margins might get tight. of course, some of the other changes will help prevent that. the increase in listing and modification fees means that, theoretically, people will be less willing to alter their prices, so the average will move more slowly. in reality, i think it’s just another sales tax that will extract currency. if i’m already at the point that i felt my price needed to be modified i would go ahead and modify it. if that prevents me from making a profit i’ll take that into consideration selling it in the future. i would rather receive the new value slightly below profit than leave it sitting in a market i don’t think it will sell in. broker’s fees are already the second-highest isk sink in the game. with only 6% of listings being modified, it’s not going to jump into first, but it should have an interesting impact. of course, i could be crazy. i’m not extremely familiar with eve or its economy. it was just an interesting explanation of how this change might work and what their intentions were. it looks like a pretty sound decision, as long as it goes the way they expect it too. i’m sure i’ll take a stab at eves economy at some point. they practically hand me the data on a silver platter once a month. that data has actually been instrumental in some of my thoughts on the economies of mmos in general. y’all take care, be nice to each other, and remember, undercutting is a normal and expected part of how markets work. posts navigation older posts search for: categories categories select category #blaugust2019 #blaugustreborn #lifttogether about activision blizzard albion online alien isolation anthem ashes of creation battletech bethesda bioware black desert online bless online blogging borderlands business carlton v fortnite ddo discworld doctor who e3 e3 2019 ea eco economics elite dangerous epic epic games store eu eve everspace fallout 76 ffxv final fantasy xiv fortuna gamestop gaming gdq gnu terry pratchett gog guild wars 2 hardware i forgot to assign this a category kids legal lizard local shannanigans lotro meta minecraft mmos monster hunter mu legend my research nexon nintendo no man’s sky nvidia overkill/starbreeze payday 2 platformer pokemon politics rabbits rambling thoughts raspberry pi reading rockfish science secrets of grindea sims 4 skywanderers snagit software something new spy mission guide squenix starlite steam strangerville studios take-two the division the division 2 the repopulation torchlight torchlight 2 tv warframe wikipedia winter wrap up xiv shadowbringers youtube archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 december 2019 november 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 follow blog via email enter your email address to follow this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 82 other followers follow blog at wordpress.com. create your website at wordpress.comget started unidentified signal source create a free website or blog at wordpress.com. post to cancel privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy