skip to content keep up to date with new design & diy trends subscribe home services hvac home security systems internet home improvement windows flooring renovation roofing moving insurance home insurance renters insurance décor by room living room kitchen bathroom bedroom other rooms get inspired search for: inspiration find your inspiration with decorating ideas from freshome for every room and every season. 10 inspiring work-from-home office setups need a little inspiration for your work from home setup? check out these 10 home office ideas from our freshome coworkers. by danika miller on march 27, 2020 in inspiration 8 expert tips on organizing your home while sheltering in place we spoke with professional organizers about keeping your home organized while quarantined for coronavirus. by danika miller on march 26, 2020 in inspiration how to keep your home clean during a pandemic we spoke with an infectious diseases expert about what to disinfect and why. by danika miller on march 23, 2020 in inspiration freelancing with a disability: designing an accessible work from home space gettyimages disability can happen to anyone at any time. sometimes people have a chronic medical condition from childhood, or one that comes on in middle- or late-age. others might have a disability due to an accident or illness. according to the centers for disease control and prevention (cdc), 61… by the freshome.com team on march 4, 2020 in inspiration give your brick fireplace a facelift – reader story did you update your bathroom? revamp your kitchen? install new flooring? we would love to share your project, big or small! send us what you did and our editorial team will consider it for our “my fresh home” series, which will be published every thursday. check out our submission instructions at th… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 11-point checklist for prepping your home for a first pet so, you’ve decided you’re ready to welcome a pet into your home for the first time. congratulations! roughly 85 million american families own at least one pet, so it is a rite of passage for most households. many pet adoption centers require a home visit before the adoption can… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 10 best free online virtual room programs and tools check out our updated review on a fantastic room design software company here. this company not only designs your space, but allows you to purchase the furniture and decor from your design. we hope you like the products we recommend. just so you are aware, freshome may collect a… by freshome team on march 4, 2020 in inspiration the behr 2020 color trends palettes are here behr paint released their 2020 color trends palettes and they’re significant. according to the company, it’s a new decade, calling for fresh and exciting new paint hues. the 3 collections of 15 colors offer enough variety to work with all design styles from modern to traditional. by cynthia bowman on march 4, 2020 in inspiration the painting experts explain how to fix painting mistakes and problems painting is undoubtedly one of the quickest and least expensive ways to transform your home. it can update an area, hide flaws, highlight architectural details and so much more. if you follow the 10 commandments of painting, you’re on the road to success. by terri williams on march 4, 2020 in inspiration how to pick a garden color palette test. want to add color to your garden while preserving a cohesive look? pick a garden color palette and let it guide you. image: 1000 words/shutterstock maybe you plan your garden meticulously as soon as the first signs of spring pop up. or maybe you wait until summer, see what… by kacie goff on march 4, 2020 in inspiration 1 2 … 83 next popular tags interior design how to guides & how to's home automation smart home design & decor learning center ideas real estate home © 2020 freshome – a red ventures company. all rights reserved about privacy policy do not sell my info terms of use contact us facebook twitter pinterest rss