skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search unite theme documentation home » support » unite theme documentation table of contents installation plugin installation custom menu custom background set up homepage featured slider customization how to disable page comments recommended image sizes how to set up blog page translation gallery footer copyright 1. theme installation 1.1 through dashboard (easy) go to appearance -> themes. click on install themes at the top. click on upload tab upload “unite.zip” archive file via web interface activate newly installed theme 1.2 manual installation using ftp (advanced) go to unite page at https://colorlib.com/wp/unite . click on download button to download theme on your desktop. unzip unite.zip on your desktop. access your host web server using your favorite ftp client (such as cyberduck, filezilla or other). navigate to /wp-content/themes/ and upload entire “unite” folder. now open wp dashboard and go to appearance->themes and activate unite theme from there. 2. plugin installation this theme relies on cpt bootstrap carousel for slider functionality. once you install and activate unite theme, you will get asked to install this plugin (optional). theme will guide you through plugin installation. this plugin is only needed if you want to create a slider just like on theme demo otherwise you can ignore this notice. if you dismiss this notice, you can install this plugin later via wordpress dashboard – appearance – install plugins. 3. custom menu unite theme sports wordpress custom menu in header and footer. more about its default functionality you can find on this tutorial made by team behind wordpress itself. this is how out theme demo menu is created. 3.1. advanced menu setup this theme uses a custom-built bootstrap nav walker that allows to use glyphicons and other bootstrap stylings. this script included the ability to add bootstrap dividers, dropdown headers, glyphicons and disables links to your menus through the wordpress menu ui. 3.1.1. dividers simply add a link menu item with a url of # and a link text or title attribute of divider (case-insensitive so ‘divider’ or ‘divider’ will both work ) and the class will do the rest. 3.1.2. glyphicons to add an icon to your link simple place the glyphicon class name in the links title attribute field and the class will do the rest. glyphicon classes you can find here. 3.1.3. dropdown headers adding a dropdown header is very similar, add a new link with a url of # and a title attribute of dropdown-header (it matches the bootstrap css class so it’s easy to remember). set the navigation label to your header text and the class will do the rest. 3.1.4. disabled links to set a disabled link simply add “disabled” to the title attribute and the theme will do the rest. 4. custom background unite theme supports wordpress custom backgrounds feature. in wordpress dashboard go to appearance->background. you can either set the image or solid color as background. you can see the background preview on the same setting page. click save changes when you are satisfied with what you see. you can always reset theme default background. 5. setup featured slider for homepage unite theme for image slider relies on cpt bootstrap carousel. it is a bootstrap based slider which is specially styled for this theme, however, you can feel free to use any slider. install cpt bootstrap carousel if you haven’t already. add new carousel via wordpress dashboard – carousel – add new. the main thing here is to properly set title, featured image and content itself as it will be shown in slider. you can create as many slides as you want and point them to any post/page or any other external resource by setting “image url” in the right side of the carousel edit screen. now copy paste this [image-carousel twbs="3"] shortcode into any post/page to display all previously created slides. for mode advanced setup and multiple slider setup you can refer to plugin documentation. 6. customization there are several customizations available for this theme via appearance – theme options. you can change elements color, link color, header menu style, footer color, social link color and many other aspects. if you feel that you can’t do something, please notify us via support forum. 7. how to disable comments for page/post open particular page on which you want to turn off comments via wp dashboard. look for the discussion box below the post editor box. it might be disabled but you can enable it via screen options. uncheck allow comments in the discussion box and hit update. to disable comments on posts “globally”. go to settings – discussion – and untick “ allow people to post comments on new articles“. this will apply for new posts. post that are already published won’t be changed and will still have open comments section. 8. recommended image sizes featured image (blog and single post) is set to 730 by 410 pixels. featured slider images. personally i use 1100 by 600 pixel images for unite demo but you can feel free to use any other image size. how to set up blog page blog should be displayed by default on front page. if you have chosen to use home page as static like i have in theme demo you will have to set up blog page separately. create a new page and name it “blog” or whatever you feel right. go to setting – reading and select “a static page (select below)” now select previously created page as “posts page:” 9. translation unite theme is translation ready and has translation files included. please see this tutorial on how to translate this or any other wordpress theme. once you have translated unite, please send translation files to use and we will include them in the next theme update. 10. gallery gallery page as on unite demo is created using jetpack plugin, which is developed by the same team which is behind wordpress itself. download and install jetpack. enable function called “tiled galleries” via wordpress dashboard – jetpack. create a post/page like you normally would. create wordpress gallery and set tiled mosaic under gallery settings on the right side of the gallery edit screen. 11. footer copyright we made it easy to change footer copyright information for this theme. you can change it via appearance – theme options – footer. this form supports html for urls and other formatting. you can also change footer background, text, link color via theme options. if you feel that something is missing from this you can start a new thread on our support forum. disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook instagram linkedin twitter youtube colorlib themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum we recommend: categories coupons ecommerce frameworks free themes giveaway hosting inspiration logo design mockups news photography plugins portfolio promotions psd templates reviews snippets theme collections tools tutorial uncategorized website builders website design website templates metro colors color mixer we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×