skip to content wphoot primary navigation menu menu menumenu home themes featured themes magazine news byte neux nevark hoot business hoot du unos family unos unos magazine vu unos publisher unos business more themes magazine hoot hoot ubix dollah brigsby creattica metrolo divogue juxter discounted themes dispatch responsive brix chromatic wphoot club wphoot club support login / register contact us cart cart unos premium wordpress theme a clean minimal design perfect for getting started with a modern site or an ecommerce store. view demo purchase $55 $46 checkout added to cart get unos free version at wordpress.org free bonus themes: get the full unos family set ( unos , unos publisher , unos magazine vu , unos business ) with the purchase of this theme. unos is a clean minimal modern theme with flexible options and wordpress prescribed coding making it compatible with all major plugins and page builders. built with core seo principles in mind, unos is the perfect theme for modern sites which require fast loading times while maintaining flexibility over design and functionality. unos is the perfect starting point for quickly and easily starting your personal multilingual blog, business website or an ecommerce store. unos features (free & premium) responsive & retina ready make your site look beautiful no matter what device your visitors use. an intelligent responsive design and retina friendly icons make every pixel look perfect. 991 icon fonts unos comes with the popular font awesome library with 991 icons that can be used throughout the theme in widgets and options panel. boxed and stretched (full width) site design select boxed look for a traditional design or change to a more spacious and modern look with the stretched layout with the click of a button. multiple logo options the most important part of your site – branding! set your logo to display your site title, or your logo image, or both, along with a small one line description. ecommerce ready setup your online shop in 2 minutes with the very popular woocommerce plugin. unos is fully compatible with extra shop display options. multiple sidebar layouts select different sidebar layouts for different sections of your site. easily set your posts/pages/archives to display one, two or no sidebar (full width). unlimited accent color options easily change the color of your site, directly from the site customizer, to match your brand color. 69 social profiles add your profile link on any of the 69 included social sites. ranges from popular sites like facebook, pinterest, instagram to bitcoin, slack, github etc. multiple footer layouts render the footer columns using widgets and any one of the 9 layouts. footer area can support upto 4 columns of different widths. image & post slider showcase your posts in style as a slider, or create a custom image slider by adding your own images. the sliders are responsive and touch friendly (requires hootkit plugin to activate theme sliders) custom widgets the highly flexible hoot widgets lets you add content in a variety of ways. simple check the demo home to see the custom widgets in action (requires hootkit plugin to activate theme widgets) translation ready unos is translation ready which means you can easily use a plugin like polylang to translate all theme strings into your local language. simple and easy to setup the easy to use customizer screen gives you the flexibility to setup your site within minutes. use the default options or modify them to take complete control of your site. do tasks like upoading a logo, favicon, setting backgrounds, background pattern/image, layouts (sidebar, full width), site width, excerpt length, meta info location and customizing read more text and a lot more… robust, secure & compatible code unos follows the best coding practices to make sure your site is robust, secure and compatible with most wordpress plugins out there. developer friendly actions & hooks easily create child themes and modify anything from content to layout using a myriad of actions and hooks available extensively throughout the theme. built for speed. good stuff. unos performs beautifully, thanks to its powerful, consistent, lean and bloat-free code. using core functions and limiting external libraries, combining variable data and caching on need basis to minimize database queries and reduce memory consumption, and numerous other optimizations throughout the code, all add up to make your site lightening fast. unos premium features complete customization – colors, backgrounds & typography unos premium lets you select different colors for different sections of your site. assign different typography (fonts, text size, font color) to menu, topbar, content headings, sidebar, footer etc. 600+ google fonts: with the integrated google fonts library, you can find the fonts that match your site's personality, and there's over 600 options to choose from. unlimited sliders, unlimited slides unos premium allows you to create unlimited sliders with as many slides as you need using the awesome hootkit plugin. you can use these sliders on your frontpage (within customizer), or add them anywhere as widgets (or shortcodes) – like in your posts, sidebars or footer. animated scrolling / one page websites / landing pages make one page websites with menu items linking to different sections of the page. watch the page animate when a user clicks a menu item to scroll to a page section. create multiple landing pages on your site. not to mention, you can always manually create and insert links to different sections of a long page as well!!! floating 'sticky' header & 'goto top' button (optional) the floating header (optional) follows the user down your page as they scroll, which means they never have to scroll back up to access your navigation menu. or, use the 'goto top' button which appears on the screen when users scroll down your page, giving them a quick way to go back to the top of the page. additional blog layouts (including pinterest type mosaic) unos premium gives you the option to display your post archives in 3 different layouts including a mosaic type layout similar to pinterest. more custom widgets custom widgets crafted and designed specifically for unos premium theme give you the flexibility of adding stylized content. (requires hootkit plugin to activate premium widgets) premium background patterns unos premium comes bundled with many additional premium background patterns. you can also upload your own background image/pattern to match your site design. menu icons select from a collection of over 991 icons to add to your main navigation menu links. automatic image lightbox automatically open image links on your site with the integrates lightbox in unos premium. custom 404 error page tired of the standard 'not found!' error? create a custom 404 error page by adding custom message, images, links etc so that you do not lose your visitor. image carousels add carousels to your post, in your sidebar, on your frontpage or in your footer. use existing posts, or create a custom carousel with your own images to display sponsors, profiles etc. (requires hootkit plugin to activate theme carousels) easy import/export moving to a new host? easily import/export your admin panel settings with just a few clicks – right from the backend. custom javascript and google analytics easily insert any javascript snippet to your header without modifying the code files. this helps in adding scripts for google analytics, adsense or any other custom code. developers love {less} css is passe! developers love the modularity and ease of using less, which is why unos premium comes with properly organized less files for the main stylesheet. custom css support add custom css to your theme right from the backend. you can count on our support staff to help you with css snippets to get the look you're after. best of all, your changes will persist across updates. instant updates get instant updates to your theme the moment they are released – ensuring your site works with latest versions of wordpress for years to come. premium support need help setting up unos? upgrading to unos premium gives you prioritized ticket based support. we have a growing support team ready to help you with your questions. buy unos theme (one-time purchase fee) purchase $55 $46 checkout added to cart faqs is this a one time fee? yes. there are no monthly/yearly recurring fees. you are free to use the theme for its entire development life cycle. do i get updates? yes, you will get a license key with your purchase. use this license key to enable updates in your wordpress dashboards. how long does the license last? your theme comes with a lifelong license. this means you will continue getting updates for the entire theme lifecycle. how many domains can i use the theme on? the theme (under gpl v3) can be used on unlimited domains. premium license can be activated on up to 3 domains for updates provided via wphoot servers (this is a soft limit to prevent system abuse) do you have a refund policy since we are selling intangible products, we do not offer a refund policy at this time. however, if for some reason you decide the theme is not a right fit for you, shoot us an email and we will look into it. what sort of support can i expect? premium themes come with priority support. we help our premium users with all sorts of queries ranging from simple theme installation questions to minor customization requests and setting up child themes. support & documentation contact us login / register affiliate program affiliate program| terms and conditions| privacy policy| themes licensed under gpl v3 copyright © wphoot.com. all rights reserved. powered by wordpress. this website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. learn more got it! x