search latest news tv tv doctor who the witcher the walking dead us tv us tv netflix arrowverse wwe reality tv reality tv love island the masked singer dancing on ice movies movies reviews star wars marvel worlds of dc soaps soaps coronation street eastenders emmerdale hollyoaks neighbours home & away casualty holby city showbiz tech tech tech deals now tv all videos newsletter forums follow instagram twitter facebook youtube about us privacy notice cookies policy tv movies soaps tech now tv forums newsletter type keyword(s) to search we earn a commission for products purchased through some links in this article. unreal season 3: release date, trailer, cast and everything you need to know "let's get this sausage party started." by ian sandwell 01/02/2018 james dittigerlifetime unreal was one of the hits of 2015 with its sharp skewering of reality tv dating shows, before suffering from a dip in quality in the second season. even star shiri appleby admitted to ew that she "kind of agreed" with the reaction. "i felt the same way. but it was sort of like, 'okay, it's here in print, so let's just address it and make the show better'," she explained. in case you need reminding, unreal takes place behind the scenes of the fictional dating competition show everlasting, following the attempts of the producers to get the footage they need by manipulating the contestants, while balancing their real-life dramas. james dittigerlifetime 18 months after the second season finale, following a slight delay, the show is back for its third season – and already has a fourth season confirmed – so what can we expect? unreal season 3 release date: when's it arriving? lifetime has confirmed that the show will return to its channel on monday, february 26 in the us, with amazon prime video again streaming it in the uk, starting from tuesday, february 27. unreal season 3 trailer: what can we expect? the full trailer for the third season was unveiled in early january and promised more of the debauched joy we've come to expect from the show. this time around, everlasting has a female "suitress", technology mogul serena (played by masters of sex star caitlin fitzgerald), who the producers have to keep in check as she works her way through 25 male suitors. lifetime "we asked, 'how do we get this show back to what worked?' and what worked was making it a show about feminism," appleby told ew. "we could explore what it means to be a working woman and find love. what are the obstacles? will men find you attractive if you're more successful than them, or will they feel emasculated by you? how do you overcome that?" but don't worry, unreal fans, the trailer looks like the show will still contain its fair amount of sex, drugs and violence. unreal season 3 cast: who's back? all of the major cast are back for the new season, including shiri appleby and constance zimmer as everlasting producers rachel and quinn, craig bierko as executive producer chet, jeffrey bowyer-chapman as jay, josh kelly as cameraman and rachel's ex-boyfriend jeremy and brennan elliott as everlasting host graham. lifetime kassandra clementi as chet's girlfriend crystal, jaime callica as jay's boyfriend xavier, tracie thoms as quinn's close friend fiona and brandon jay mclaren as psychologist dr simon join fitzgerald as newcomers on the show. some of the potential male suitors for serena will be played by bart edwards, alex hernandez, alex sparrow, tyler hynes and marcus rosner. unreal season 3 spoilers: what happened in season 2 again? the season two finale ended with jeremy causing a (likely) fatal car crash involving rachel's ex coleman and journalist yael, who went on everlasting to uncover secrets, specifically about the death of former contestant mary in season one. lifetime jeremy may have saved the show, but kelly told the hollywood reporter that his character is struggling with his actions. "he's dealing subconsciously but he's not yet dealing with, consciously, the fact that he may or may not have killed people," he explained, adding that he had a 70-pound weight loss to film the new season. the new season will also see rachel finally seek professional help for the mental health issues she's suffered from throughout the show. lifetime "she does have to take responsibility for what happened at the end of last season and whether or not she produced jeremy to do what he did and whether she knew exactly what he would do," showrunner stacy rukeyser told tv guide. "i think she knew he would do something and she has to deal with that." the presence of a female "suitress" also affects both rachel and quinn as it makes the women compare themselves to her, given that she is a successful businesswoman. lifetime "having a female avatar up there makes everybody say, 'i'm like serena in this way' or 'i'm not like serena in this way.' it gives everybody someone to project onto all their issues with feminism and where it's left them," co-creator sarah gertrude shapiro told variety. rukeyser added: "a smart, strong woman is one of the scariest things to america, and rachel and quinn have to deal with that as they're selling serena to america. but it's also a great discussion about what is it to be a woman today and how are we supposed to be." want up-to-the-minute entertainment news and features? just hit 'like' on our digital spy facebook page and 'follow' on our @digitalspy twitter account and you're all set. advertisement - continue reading below more from features new on netflix this week: tv shows to watch now new on netflix this week: movies you can watch now advertisement - continue reading below complete wwe and nxt pay-per-view schedule wwe wrestlemania 36: matches and predictions prison break season 6: everything you need to know how lord of the rings would look with the 1st cast it chapter 2: comparing the child and adult casts glastonbury festival 2020: all you need to know disenchantment parts 3 & 4: all you need to know taboo season 2: everything you need to know features tv features ustv features us tv tv this is us season 3: everything you need to know unreal season 3 reminds us why we loved it originally the gifted season 2: everything you need to know paddington 3: everything you need to know incredibles 3: everything you need to know designated survivor season 3: all you need to know us tv movies soaps forums reality tv showbiz gaming lgbtq+ spy music tech deals comics netflix marvel doctor who digital spy, part of the hearst uk entertainment network digital spy participates in various affiliate marketing programs, which means we may get paid commissions on editorially chosen products purchased through our links to retailer sites. ©2020 hearst uk is the trading name of the national magazine company ltd, 30 panton street, leicester square, london, sw1y 4aj. registered in england. all rights reserved about & contact details terms & conditions privacy policy cookie policy complaints sitemap advertising