transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support updates media contact: +1 212-358-0071 // sftmedia@studentsforafreetibet.org 1 2 3 … 5 next » tibet’s importance to the global climate strike september 20, 2019 in updates today, millions of young climate activists and movement allies took to the streets to demand meaningful climate action as part of the global climate strike week taking place september 20-27. sft staff, members, and supporters were in the streets, not only to... read more celebrate 25 years of sft with us! july 25, 2019 in updates join us this year to celebrate the 25th anniversary of sft's founding! 25 years ago in new york city, a small group of tibetans and tibet-supporters came together to bring students for a free tibet to life. since our founding, sft has grown... read more support the next generation leaders! may 22, 2019 in updates there are key moments in our lives which shape our future. for me, one such moment was eight years ago when i had the opportunity to attend tibet action institute lhakar academy - tibetan school of leadership & change program in dharamsala. at that time,... read more an exciting “youth for tibet” weekend in paris may 9, 2019 in updates in 1994, a group of inspired individuals created what would become the largest international grassroots organization in the tibetan freedom movement — students for a free tibet (sft). this year is sft’s 25th anniversary, and we're dedicating it to the grassroots — the... read more we are growing! may 2, 2019 in updates students for a free tibet is extremely proud to be the largest grassroots organization working in the tibetan movement in the world! but what does that look like? as the academic year comes to an end, i am excited to share two... read more east coast conference 2019 at umass amhest! march 19, 2019 in updates i am excited to announce that the sft east coast conference 2019 will be organized by sft international and sft umass amherst on april 13-14! east coast conference is a great opportunity for youth activists to network and develop their skills through... read more 1 2 3 … 5 next » students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×