home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads ursula k. le guin on power, oppression, freedom, and how imaginative storytelling expands our scope of the possible ursula k. le guin on redeeming the imagination from the commodification of creativity and how storytelling teaches us to assemble ourselves freedom and creative vitality in a market society: ursula k. le guin on saving books from profiteering and commodification labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks ursula k. le guin on being a man a journey to where the semicolon meets the soul. by maria popova who are we when we, to borrow hannah arendt’s enduring words, “are together with no one but ourselves”? however much we might exert ourselves on learning to stop letting others define us, the definitions continue to be hurled at us — definitions predicated on who we should be in relation to some concrete or abstract other, some ideal, some benchmark beyond the boundaries of who we already are. one of the most important authors of our time, ursula k. le guin has influenced such celebrated literary icons as neil gaiman and salman rushdie. at her best — and to seek the “best” in an altogether spectacular body of work seems almost antithetical — she blends anthropology, social psychology, and sheer literary artistry to explore complex, often difficult subjects with remarkable grace. subjects, for instance, like who we are and what gender really means as we — men, women, ungendered souls — try to inhabit our constant tussle between inner and outer, individual and social, private and performative. this is what le guin examines in an extraordinary essay titled “introducing myself,” which le guin first wrote as a performance piece in the 1980s and later updated for the beautifully titled, beautifully written, beautifully wide-ranging 2004 collection the wave in the mind: talks and essays on the writer, the reader, and the imagination (public library). to speak of a subject so common by birth and so minced by public discourse in a way that is completely original and completely compelling is no small feat — in fact, it is the kind of feat of writing jack kerouac must have had in mind when he contemplated the crucial difference between genius and talent. ursula k. le guin by laura anglin le guin writes: i am a man. now you may think i’ve made some kind of silly mistake about gender, or maybe that i’m trying to fool you, because my first name ends in a, and i own three bras, and i’ve been pregnant five times, and other things like that that you might have noticed, little details. but details don’t matter… i predate the invention of women by decades. well, if you insist on pedantic accuracy, women have been invented several times in widely varying localities, but the inventors just didn’t know how to sell the product. their distribution techniques were rudimentary and their market research was nil, and so of course the concept just didn’t get off the ground. even with a genius behind it an invention has to find its market, and it seemed like for a long time the idea of women just didn’t make it to the bottom line. models like the austen and the brontë were too complicated, and people just laughed at the suffragette, and the woolf was way too far ahead of its time. illustration from ‘the human body,’ 1959. click image for details. noting that when she was born (1929), “there actually were only men” — lest we forget, even the twentieth century’s greatest public intellectuals of the female gender used the pronoun “he” to refer to the whole lot of human beings — le guin plays with this notion of the universal pronoun: that’s who i am. i am the generic he, as in, “if anybody needs an abortion he will have to go to another state,” or “a writer knows which side his bread is buttered on.” that’s me, the writer, him. i am a man. not maybe a first-rate man. i’m perfectly willing to admit that i may be in fact a kind of second-rate or imitation man, a pretend-a-him. as a him, i am to a genuine male him as a microwaved fish stick is to a whole grilled chinook salmon. le guin turns to the problem of the body, which is indeed problematic in the context of this generic he: i admit it, i am actually a very poor imitation or substitute man, and you could see it when i tried to wear those army surplus clothes with ammunition pockets that were trendy and i looked like a hen in a pillowcase. i am shaped wrong. people are supposed to be lean. you can’t be too thin, everybody says so, especially anorexics. people are supposed to be lean and taut, because that’s how men generally are, lean and taut, or anyhow that’s how a lot of men start out and some of them even stay that way. and men are people, people are men, that has been well established, and so people, real people, the right kind of people, are lean. but i’m really lousy at being people, because i’m not lean at all but sort of podgy, with actual fat places. i am untaut. illustration by yang liu from ‘man meets woman,’ a pictogram critique of gender stereotypes. click image for details. for an example of someone who did man right, le guin points to hemingway, he with “the beard and the guns and the wives and the little short sentences,” and returns to her own insufficient manness with a special wink at semicolons and a serious gleam at the significance of how we die: i don’t have a gun and i don’t have even one wife and my sentences tend to go on and on and on, with all this syntax in them. ernest hemingway would have died rather than have syntax. or semicolons. i use a whole lot of half-assed semicolons; there was one of them just now; that was a semicolon after “semicolons,” and another one after “now.” and another thing. ernest hemingway would have died rather than get old. and he did. he shot himself. a short sentence. anything rather than a long sentence, a life sentence. death sentences are short and very, very manly. life sentences aren’t. they go on and on, all full of syntax and qualifying clauses and confusing references and getting old. and that brings up the real proof of what a mess i have made of being a man: i am not even young. just about the time they finally started inventing women, i started getting old. and i went right on doing it. shamelessly. i have allowed myself to get old and haven’t done one single thing about it, with a gun or anything. but between the half-assed semicolons and the guns lies the crux of the gender-imitation problem — the tyranny of how we think and talk about sex: sex is even more boring as a spectator sport than all the other spectator sports, even baseball. if i am required to watch a sport instead of doing it, i’ll take show jumping. the horses are really good-looking. the people who ride them are mostly these sort of nazis, but like all nazis they are only as powerful and successful as the horse they are riding, and it is after all the horse who decides whether to jump that five-barred gate or stop short and let the nazi fall off over its neck. only usually the horse doesn’t remember it has the option. horses aren’t awfully bright. but in any case, show jumping and sex have a good deal in common, though you usually can only get show jumping on american tv if you can pick up a canadian channel, which is not true of sex. given the option, though i often forget that i have an option, i certainly would watch show jumping and do sex. never the other way round. but i’m too old now for show jumping, and as for sex, who knows? i do; you don’t. le guin parlays this subtle humor into her most serious and piercing point, partway between the tragic and the hopeful — the issue of aging: here i am, old, when i wrote this i was sixty years old, “a sixty-year-old smiling public man,” as yeats said, but then, he was a man. and now i am over seventy. and it’s all my own fault. i get born before they invent women, and i live all these decades trying so hard to be a good man that i forget all about staying young, and so i didn’t. and my tenses get all mixed up. i just am young and then all of a sudden i was sixty and maybe eighty, and what next? not a whole lot. i keep thinking there must have been something that a real man could have done about it. something short of guns, but more effective than oil of olay. but i failed. i did nothing. i absolutely failed to stay young. and then i look back on all my strenuous efforts, because i really did try, i tried hard to be a man, to be a good man, and i see how i failed at that. i am at best a bad man. an imitation phony second-rate him with a ten-hair beard and semicolons. and i wonder what was the use. sometimes i think i might just as well give the whole thing up. sometimes i think i might just as well exercise my option, stop short in front of the five-barred gate, and let the nazi fall off onto his head. if i’m no good at pretending to be a man and no good at being young, i might just as well start pretending that i am an old woman. i am not sure that anybody has invented old women yet; but it might be worth trying. the wave in the mind, like le guin’s mind, is joltingly original in its totality, chinook salmon in the wild. complement this particular bit with anna deavere smith on how to stop letting others define us. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published october 17, 2014 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2014/10/17/ursula-k-le-guin-gender/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturegenderphilosophyursula k. le guin view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.