transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support events us tibet lobby day us tibet lobby day mon, mar 23, 2020 – tue, mar 24, 2020 capitol hill this event has passed. this year, tibetan-americans and friends of tibet from around the us will come to washington, dc for the twelfth annual tibet lobby day on march 23 and 24. the success of tibet lobby day depends on the participation and efforts of tibet supporters like you. it is your opportunity to communicate directly with your elected representatives and let them know that they have constituents who care deeply about tibet. this opportunity is particularly important in this time of change among our elected representatives on capitol hill. the us congress has long been a bulwark of support for tibet, from giving his holiness the dalai lama his first parliamentary forum in 1987, to millions of dollars in tibet support programs every year. but it is of vital importance that we continue to remind our members of congress of their longstanding commitment to tibet. faced with the well-funded lobbying might of the chinese embassy, it is critical that we speak out to let our elected representatives know of the breadth and depth of support for the cause of tibet amongst their constituents and ensure that tibet continues to remain on their legislative agendas. this event is a collaboration of tibet support groups and tibetan associations in the united states. there will be a training session, and it is recommended that first-time participants, in particular, attend. the international campaign for tibet (ict) will help set up meetings for all participants with their members of congress. registration closes on march 9, 2020. register today! weekend schedule day 1: tibetan youth summit hosted by au friends of tibet what: speakers, panel discussion and interactive lobbying training geared specifically towards students and young people date: saturday, 3/21/2020 location: american university (4400 massachusetts ave nw washington, d.c.) day 2: lobby training hosted by ict what: introduction to tibet lobby day 2020 and lobbying training date: sunday, 3/22/2020 location: ict office (1825 jefferson place nw, washington, d.c.) days 3 + 4: tibet lobby day 2020 what: lobbying for tibet date: monday and tuesday, 3/23/2020 – 3/24/2020 location: us capitol hill registration link: https://tibetlobbyday.us/ students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×