transforming our world through nonviolent action 2019: year in review sft store search for: our work campaigns commemorative dates trainings and conferences get involved start a chapter intern/volunteer events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern usa grassroots intern graphic design intern action kit strategic planning intro to direct action latest updates in the news press advisories/releases about staff our history about tibet financials support sft events sft store donate ways to support usa grassroots intern students for a free tibet is looking for an intern to play a key role in grassroots organizing. the usa grassroots intern will assist the programs director in overseeing our extensive network of student and community chapters across the us. this internship is an opportunity to learn about empowering activists, developing leaders, and mobilizing people around the country. responsibilities: organize community outreach events assist in the development of grassroots materials maintain accurate chapter records mail chapter kits and distribute information skills/qualifications: strong interest in and passion for human rights, activism, and grassroots organizing excellent verbal and written communication skills attention to detail and strong organizational skills ability to pitch and execute new ideas experience with sft chapters is a plus commitment: applicants are expected to commit a minimum of 180 internship hours within a 12-week period. compensation: this internship is unpaid, but we are happy to work with you to help you receive class credit. this internship will provide you the opportunity for skill development and work experience in the nonprofit sector; references from senior staff upon successful completion of the internship; unique learning experience in one of the most effective grassroots organizations in the field of political activism. to apply for the usa grassroots intern position, please send your resume, cover letter, and the names and contact information for two references to grassroots@studentsforafreetibet.org with “usa grassroots internship” in the email subject line. please do not send attachments – send with google drive or dropbox, or put the text of your application in the body of your email. no phone calls, please. apply now! other internships events & programs intern media & communications intern campaigns intern graphic design intern students for a free tibet (sft) works in solidarity with the tibetan people in their struggle for freedom and independence. we are a chapter-based network of young people and activists around the world. through education, grassroots organizing, and nonviolent direct action, we campaign for tibetans’ fundamental right to political freedom. join sft's online action network: get emails, updates & action items. sign up! 602 east 14th street, 2nd floor new york, ny 10009 usa (212) 358-0071 info@studentsforafreetibet.org intern with us we are always looking for help. if you are talented and passionate about human rights and tibet then we want to hear from you! intern / volunteer © 2020 students for a free tibet ×