skip to toolbar about wordpress about wordpress wordpress.org documentation support feedback search log in register skip to content wordpress.org search wordpress.org for: submit toggle menu showcase themes plugins mobile support documentation forums get involved five for the future about blog hosting get wordpress plugins my favorites beta testing developers search for: search plugins download use any font [ freemium ] by dinesh karki details reviews installation support development description use any custom fonts you wish and give your site a elegant look. no css knowledge required. click here for use any font working demo. use any font gives you freedom to use custom fonts in your website. it is not like other font embed services which gives you countable number of fonts to select from neither the one that stores your font in remote server. you can use any custom font if you have its font format (ttf,otf,woff) without being dependent to other’s server uptime. features quick and easy to setup. no css or any rocket science knowledge needed. support all major browsers including ie 6+, firefox, chrome, safari, ios, andriod, opera and more. font conversion within the plugin interface font uploader and quick font assign interface. you can select pre defined html tags or assign it to custom css. use uploaded font directly from wordpress editor, divi builder, site origin page buider, elementor page builder, beaver builder, themify builder, and any visual builder using the class. custom fonts uploaded can be directly used from theme options panel for major themeforest themes like avada, x theme, salient, oshine, kleo, shopkeeper, simplemag, porto and many more (540+). check out full list here. supports font format including ttf, otf, woff. the required fonts are converted automatically. accepts custom font file upto 25 mb. embed fonts using @font-face css. seo friendly and quick loading due to woff2 compression. multiple custom fonts can be used. faster load time as your custom fonts are stored on your own server. supports font assign based on language for wpml and polylang multi language plugin. support virtual support to solve common issues. it covers almost 80% of repeated issues. support forum to quickly resolve your issues. rectify my problem for personal assitance. you need api key to connect to our server for font conversion. our server converts your font and sends it back. you can get key from here. you can also generate lite / test api key from button at top of the plugin page. note : lite / test api only allow single font conversion. installation video note : we don’t store your fonts in our server neither any of your information except the api key details. our server deletes the temporary file after the conversion is done. we don’t respond to support tickets created here. please visit our support forum for your issues. screenshots screenshot #1. use any font demo screenshot #2. use any font plugin setup screenshot #3. assign font directly from wordpress editor screenshot #4. font list not showing in editor. screenshot #5. disable font list in editor. screenshot #6. assign fonts to custom elements. installation upload the plugin use-any-font files to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory activate the use-any-font plugin through the ‘plugins’ menu in wordpress. get the api key and verify it (needed to connect to server for font conversion). select use any font under settings upload your custom font. assign your font to element. you can also assign the custom font directly from wordpress page/post editor. your fonts are working in your site now. you may refer to screenshots tab for visual instructions. faq which font format does plugin accepts and the font size ? currently, ttf, otf, woff font format are accepted. font file upto 15mb is acceptable. however, we suggest you to use smaller ones as far as possible. the font file size directly affects your site load time. does it works with multiple fonts ? ya, it works with multiple fonts. for multiple font conversion request, you need to get the premium key. do i need to manually convert fonts ? no, you don’t need to do it yourself. just upload your font(supports most of the font format), and the plugin does the rest. does it work with visual builder like divi builder ? ya, it works with any visual builder. for that you can assign class to those elements. class name are same as font name. also, we have full support for divi builder and siteorigin page builder. you can assign fonts using their font family dropdown. you can check video for more details. divi builder : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y24ttwnhfmy site origin page buider : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=da-ixwzscys does it works with any theme ? its built-in font upload and font assign section allows you to assign custom fonts to any theme. however, for popular themes like avada, x theme, salient, oshine, kleo, shopkeeper, simplemag, porto and many more (540+). check out full list here., we have added extra features that allows you to assign the custom font to your theme using the theme options panel. can i assign font based on language ? ya, our plugin allows you to assign font based on language. it currently supports wpml and ploylang. if you are using some others multi lingual plugin, please do contact us and we will try to integrate with our plugin. where are my fonts stored ? all the fonts are stored in your own server. our server only convert the fonts and sends back. does my font depends upon plugin’s server uptime ? no, our server is needed during font conversion only. after that all fonts are served from your own server. not working for me. what can i do ? virtual support to solve common issues. it covers almost 80% of repeated issues. support forum to quickly resolve your issues. rectify my problem for personal assitance. reviews good support but slow viviansays march 11, 2020 update: the developer contacted me and issued the correct api key. i am having api issues and have tried 3 times to contact the developer through both messenger and via email. it has been more than 4 days and i have heard nothing. prior to this, i raved about use any font because they are the easiest and most robust font plugin to use. but, if i can't get support when i need it, i will be forced to move on to a company that values its customers. pay for add some css in your site marcuxd9 february 19, 2020 waste of money, make the font integration by yourself very good support staranails february 13, 2020 i've got an error when using the test api for the free version. i wanted to add only one font. and the facebook message response was very good. my problem was solved and they explained everything that i needed to do. i'm so happy. very bad yessoftmk february 13, 2020 just one custom font in free? it is joke? works like a charm! billiekun february 4, 2020 very useful plugin. it allows you to embed any typography in your site in its free version, and unlimited number in its premium. the support team answers you very quick if you have any kind of problem. recommended! easy to use, powerful tool & great customer service oppyj january 27, 2020 i have been using use any font for many years (about 4 i think now) and its been a brilliant tool to have among my plugins. it was easy to install and apply, adding a nice way to change the font in a way that is easy to do and takes just seconds ! i reached out for a bit of customer support, wow! what a reply i got. having worked with many 3rd party plugin providers (i have made wp sites for over 6 years), use any font customer service is the best i have experienced by far. fast response, information provided to resolve the issue i had, and v.quickly my problem was solved. i highly recommend this plugin and i shall also be keeping an eye for any offerings by this developer because of their customer service! read all 836 reviews contributors & developers “use any font [ freemium ]” is open source software. the following people have contributed to this plugin.contributors dnesscarkey translate “use any font [ freemium ]” into your language. interested in development? browse the code, check out the svn repository, or subscribe to the development log by rss. changelog 5.5 assign font based on language for wpml & polylang multi lingual plugins. 5.4 font upload supported upto 25 mb. use of woff2 compression for better and faster font loading. 5.3 fixed domain verification issue. 5.2 added menu option in elements list. 5.1 fix url issue. 5.0 new api key system, lite / test api key generation from plugin page. 4.9.2 adds custom fonts to typography of themify and beaver page builder 4.9.1 adds custom fonts to typography of elemenator page builder 4.7.3 adds custom fonts to theme options panel for themes like avada, salient, oshine, x theme, kleo. (540+ themes in total) 4.7.2 siteorigin page builder support 4.7.1 divi theme issue fixes. 4.7 full support for divi admin visual builder use of relative path as default nowonwards alternative server selection for font upload and api verification. 4.6 directly assign font to element using the class identical to font name. 4.5.1 fixed form validation js error. 4.5 fixed ssl font loading issue. 4.4.4 font upload issue fixed. 4.4.3 fixed couldn’t receive font file issue. 4.4.2 fixed api verification issue 4.4.1 fixed ssl api key issue 4.3.7 secure file upload url for default js uploader 4.3.6 fixed validation for php uploader sanitize font name test with 4.3.1 4.3.5 fixed host name lookup issue added ssl for font upload path test with 4.3 4.3.4 license key trim added. 4.3.3 font convertor url change. 4.3.2 added relative font path settings. added css version system. 4.3.1 add js extension validation for font file. 4.3 ajax font upload fixed couldn’t receive font file for conversion issue. 4.2.4 font size increase to 10 mb fixed js validation issue. add server side validation for font file. 4.2.3 removed rarely used font formats from being upload. they were making font onvertor server down repeatedly. fixed name validation issue 4.2.2 tested to work with wordpress 4.0 jquery validation plugin updated 4.2.1 using wp_remote_get inplace of wp_remove_fopen for api key 4.2 compatible with 3.9 fixed font list issue in editor for 3.9 4.1.1 minor update added font formats (dfont, suit) updated faq and screenshots. tested with 3.8.1 4.1 added support for ssl (https) additional settings to disbale font list in wordpress editor. tested with 3.8 4.0 added network site support assign font directly from wordpress editor 3.2 tested with 3.5.2 3.1 minor update add woff and svg font format 3.0 major update supports more font format now. better error handling added hyperlink (a tag) in default element select. 2.1 added file upload validation. 2.0 added server connectivity test. 1.1 fixed font not loading issue when there is space in font file name. added instructions in plugin interface. 1.0 first release meta version: 5.5 last updated: 3 months ago active installations: 100,000+ wordpress version: 3.0 or higher tested up to: 5.3.2 tags: custom fontsfont uploader advanced view ratings see all 5 stars 743 4 stars 28 3 stars 7 2 stars 8 1 star 50 contributors dnesscarkey support issues resolved in last two months: 0 out of 1 view support forum about blog hosting donate support developers get involved showcase plugins themes wordcamp wordpress.tv buddypress bbpress wordpress.com matt privacy public code @wordpress wordpress code is poetry.