 free resources useful tools blog about us learn how to start a blog useful blogging resources level up your webmaster skills with our resources online how-to guides step by step guides for new to the web people. choose from our wide selection of different guides and learn how to be a successful webmaster. how to start a blog this guide takes you from learning the basics of blogging to becoming a talented blogger. read the guide how to make a website this guide will cover everything you need to know to launch your website successfully. read the guide web hosting explained this guide has been written to explain the web hosting in detail using simple language. read the guide the most popular learn how to use wordpress learn how to customize your blog, make design and layout changes, create your first post or page and much more. how to write and create great blog content learn what the content your blog should consists of, types of content you can create and blogging practices you should follow. how to promote your blog and its content your content will never help you succeed in blogging if no one ever sees. learn marketing strategies to help you promote your blog. how to make money from your blog learn how to prepare your blog for monetization and monetization strategies for blogs with small (new blogs), medium and large audiences. how to choose the right domain name a domain name is more than an address. it is your blog, your business and your very online identity. how to buy/register a domain name one of the first steps in creating an online presence is to choose and register a domain name. how to change web hosting provider are you not happy with your current web hosting services? the following guide will explain a list of things you need to do for a successful website transfer. how to create an email the beginner’s guide learn how to get your own email address with our step by step tutorial and differentiate yourself from others. how to make a logo your logo is the visual representation of your brand. at a glance, it should reflect your brand’s personality. how to make your website mobile-friendly the overall number of mobile phone users expected to grow to 4.93 billion in 2018. this guide will help you provide your website users with a seamless mobile experience how to find the best cdn service learn what is a cdn, how it works and the benefits of having it on your website. how to trademark and copyright a name or а logo learn what trademarks and copyrights are and how to protect your company’s name or a logo with our step by step guide. how to speed-up your website website speed affects your traffic, page views, conversions, sales and your overall reputation. this guide helps you make your site super fast. how to start a food blog creating a website for yourself as a michelin 3-star chef is a valuable investment for yourself and your future. how to start a fashion blog first site guide’s step by step fashion blog guide is here to show you how to build your own blog within less than 30 minutes. how to start a music teacher website step by step guide to building a website for your music lessons business. how to start a real estate agent website creating a website for yourself as a real estate agent is a valuable investment for yourself and your future. what is a vpn and how do you find the best vpn services enter the world of vpns by learning what they are, how they work and what benefits they offer. the best wordpress web hosting this guide will help you choose the most reliable and reputable wordpress host based on all the data we’ve collected. html for beginners the ultimate guide explore the basic principles of html before looking at examples of the individual elements that you use when coding your website. the beginner’s guide to facebook advertising this guide will help you acquire instructions on how to create comprehensive facebook ads that can help you get positive results. the beginner’s guide to google analytics google analytics is a free tool to help you measure your website traffic and gather vital information about your website visitors. the beginner’s guide to wordpress seo learn what is seo, how it works and overview of best wordpress seo practices to help your website get found online. the beginner’s guide to finding the right keywords this guide provides essentials you need to know about creating a proper keyword strategy for your blog. how to make a website with cms create your new website using the most popular content management systems such as wordpress, drupal, joomla, and prestashop. how to make a website with website builder need all-in-one solution to make a website? this guide will cover different types of website builders you can use to create your new site. how to make money with amazon affiliate program in this guide we will explain to you what is amazon associates program and how to get started with it. how to move your blog from blogger to wordpress starting a self-hosted wordpress site was a smart choice. we will show you how to transfer your blog from blogger to wordpress in no time. how to move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org learn how to move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org. how to start a travel blog this guide will help you learn important things you need to know about being a travel blogger. how to find free images for your blog this guide will help you understand the importance of images for your blog. learn about different stock sites and licenses they offer. how to start a lifestyle blog learn all the important things you need to know about being a lifestyle blogger. it will also show you how to create a lifestyle blog. video tutorials easy to follow video tutorials covering wordpress, blogging basics, and niche blogging. wordpress vs wix software wordpress vs squarespace software wordpress vs drupal wordpress vs joomla wordpress vs tumblr wordpress vs blogger what is a blog? how to start a blog – the beginner’s guide view all videos useful articles this section provides useful articles for new bloggers. read these blogging 101 tutorials and learn how to become a successful blogger. 50 best freelance jobs websites to find work and make money in 2020 voice search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) how to move your blog from movable type and typepad to wordpress the history of blogging - a complete chronology how to move your blog from squarespace to wordpress google search statistics, facts, and trends (2020) how to move your blog from weebly to wordpress blogging statistics, facts, and trends (2020) view all articles blogging tools and services our tools section contains an extensive (and growing) list of tools and services chosen by experts. let us show you exactly which tools or services will work the best for your blog. blogging platforms website builders domain names web hosting providers content creation copywriting and writing content marketing email marketing view all tools online services reviews read in-depth reviews of useful web products and services. such as web hosting, domain registrars, blogging platforms, web builders, and more. registrar reviews godaddy review hover.com review iwantmyname review blog platform reviews wordpress.org review wordpress.com review movabletype review web hosting reviews inmotion hosting review webhostinghub review bluehost review website builder reviews squarespace review weebly review wix review cdn reviews cachefly cdn review fastly cdn review cdn77 cdn review email services reviews zoho review mailchimp review constant contact review wordpress theme providers reviews elegant themes review themefuse review teslathemes review wordpress theme providers reviews elegant themes review themefuse review teslathemes review blog videos glossary learn wordpress write blog content promote your blog make money blogging learn blogging best blog sites website builders domain registrars hosting providers blog setup service all blog posts archive copyright © 2020 free help & guides for web newbies privacy policy terms & conditions contact disclosure: our website receives compensation from the companies whose products we recommend and because of it, we are able to provide help with setting up your blog. we tested and used most of the web hosting sites and domain registrars recommended here.