home fiction enjoy creative exerciseshow to write a novelhow to write stories how to use freewriting to supercharge your work what happened next? [creative writing exercise] what happens next? can you write a mini-story about this? [creative writing exercise] what's the story here? creative writing exercise what's the story here? [creative writing exercise] word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) 21 best selling novels of the 21st century [infographic] the anatomy of a bestselling novel [infographic] 5 steps to ensure your novel is a bestseller in its genre kurt vonnegut & how to shape an unforgettable story 34 first lines of famous books you wished you'd written [infographic] why hemingway's advice is outdated (and what to do instead) the secret to writing a memoir people want to read how to write short stories: 20 tips from the greats how to write a novel enjoy creative exercises how to write stories nonfiction become a top bloggerfreelancinglearn to journal 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) 7 benefits to creating video content for blog engagement and seo 15 killer tips from successful bloggers you can use immediately how to choose keywords for your blog (and attract the right audience) is blogging dead or alive in 2019? how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 4 apps to help you become a better content writer and marketer 3 things i learned as an accidental freelancer a day in the life of a busy freelance writer﻿ 5 killer strategies for having a thriving freelance writing career writing to heal: how expressive writing can make you happier [video] how to always have a bagful of exciting writing ideas how to make your story more powerful with journaling become a top blogger learn to journal freelancing motivation be inspired be creative tips be productivecreate a bookresources for writersshare your writingtips how to consistently write faster (and more efficiently) how to stop procrastinating and keep writing should you give up on writing when you have kids?﻿ useful time management hacks every writer should know 6 top tips to build writing focus with pavlov and pomodoros 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller 4 steps to achieving your author dream after publishing her book this unexpected thing happened top 10 book cover design trends for 2019 how to shine with amazon kdp: publish your book, episode 9 gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity 10 masterclasses for writers, poets & screenwriters to crush it in 2020 is blogging dead or alive in 2019? top 20 greatest posts ever published on write to done a writer reads: world reading habits[infographic] what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? what are you writing? how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous how to make money translating other authors' works (or your own) how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one be productive create a book creating author websites resources for writers use social media how to write copy promote creating author websiteshow to write copymarket your writingpodcastinguse social media creating author websites: the definitive guide have created an author platform yet? or have you made this huge mistake? how to build a writer platform with no time, no credentials and no book how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 6 top copywriting techniques every writer should know call to action: the mega power of tiny copy 5 traits great copywriters have in common how to write more convincing sales copy (without any qualifications) how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you've written a single word) qr code: why every book you publish in 2020 should have one seo for writers: 5 top tactics to attract search engines (and clients) 9 first time author blunders you need to avoid 5 reasons your brand as a writer is more important than your book podcasting: are you missing out on the next big thing? 5 top tips for creating social videos that will double your fan base 5 creative ways to use snapchat for writers top social media for writers: these will make you more powerful and engaging are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you get the most out of pinterest: 5 tips tools resources for writers about who we are write for us mentoring contact terms & conditions privacy useful time management hacks every writer should know be productive tips for writers by kristen ford time management is important in any line of work, but for the writer, it can be the difference between getting paid or not. chances are, there are many other things calling your attention that can easily distract you from using your valuable time wisely. the number one issue that writers face daily, is dealing with time sucking distractions. the best laid plans can be destroyed in seconds even when you had every intention of sitting down and getting straight to work. all of a sudden the phone rings, or there’s a dog barking excessively next door, a family obligation comes up or maybe you are just distracted by your own thoughts and fears. whatever your particular distraction may be, these time management hacks should help get you back on track and get that writing project done! with the help of available writing tools online, you can learn how to build a blog from scratch. unplug the simplest and most effective way to avoid wasting valuable is to turn off your internet connection. without internet access, you will not have the urge to pick up your phone and check social media or to log into your email and start checking all your emails that have been piling up over the weekend. something as innocent as popping onto social media for just one minute usually never ends up being just a minute. before you know it, you’ve wasted hours scrolling through social media accounts or answering emails. this is one distraction you can truly do something about, so just unplug and don’t give it another thought. schedule your day (create a routine) being a writer may allow you to plan out your day at your own pace, especially if you are a freelance writer, but it would be very beneficial to have some sort of schedule. once you do come up with a doable schedule, do your best to stick with it. for example, if you find yourself more productive at a certain time of day, or a time of day where you know you will have fewer distractions, pen yourself in for a few hours of uninterrupted writing time. if you work better doing your writing in chunks, maybe broken up with other life responsibilities, then schedule yourself around those activities. you would be surprised at how busy you can be but never actually get anything done! staying on task and getting some sort of writing routine down will not only keep you on task but you will also feel more productive. don’t feel bad saying no don’t bite off more than you can chew! taking on more projects than you can realistically complete is never a good idea. you will end up feeling rushed and overworked which can actually reduce productivity. committing to back to back projects on a continuous basis can leave you unmotivated and uninspired. stick to projects you know you can complete in a timely manner and be sure to allow some downtime in between. if you work from home, you may also have to exercise your right to say no to the people around you. when working from home, you can easily become the person that is viewed as always available to take care of daily task that just takes up too much of your precious writing time. marie kondo your organization system organization queen, marie kondo, whose method is to declutter and simplify can work for the writer as well. staying organized and on top of the business side of things can save you a lot of time and headaches. there are many tools available to help you do this or you can keep it very simple. keeping track and managing client information, job details, deadlines, earnings, tax information, and other important information can be done by creating well- named folders on your computer that can be easily found when needed. not being able to find this information quickly can be a huge waste of time. break huge projects into manageable chunks large projects can be exciting, but they can also be very intimidating. when a project feels overwhelming, it can lead to procrastination, big time procrastination! a great way to avoid this is to break the project up into small more manageable chunks and stick to a content calendar. for example, commit yourself to 15-20 minutes of uninterrupted writing, take a timed break that you determined to be enough to refresh your body and mind, ideally about 10 minutes and then come back and complete another 15-20 minutes of work. before you know it, you will have made quite a dent in that huge writing project and will feel like you did not waste a bunch of time being unproductive. good time management is a must for writers. these time management hacks should not only help you waste less time when writing, but should also help keep you on task so you can meet deadlines and keep those writing jobs coming in. tweet pin share related posts how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir you are what you read: bookshelves of the famous by laura tong 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson about the author kristen ford kristen ford is a professional writer at bookwriting inc, she loves to write about the leading bookwriting trends and diverse ranging topics. at times when kristine is not busy writing, she can be found searching about foodies stuff. ←previous post next post→ join over 2 million readers the best hosting option free course- sell more books with amazon book ads are you an author who wants to sell more books? if so, there’s one game-changing strategy you can’t afford to ignore. get your free course here get an unfair advantage over your competitors. get the most extensive and accurate information on the e-book market available today. find your genre - and next bestseller - here create an amazing author website turn visitors into subscribers, paying fans, and lifelong readers. get author cats here want your next book to be a bestseller? then you need kdp rocket - the killer advantage of pro authors. get kdp rocket here make real money from your blogging – today, not in three year’s time the blogger's guides - complete four pack grab your guides here popular posts are you using this simple way to get more shares on social media? 9 tools to help you7k total shares two complete content marketing examples for fiction and nonfiction authors6k total shares how long should it take to write an epic post?5k total shares do you make these common grammar mistakes? take the quiz to find out4k total shares 5 elements for crafting a compelling story your audience will love3k total shares 20 inspiring quotes to boost your confidence as a writer2k total shares 3 habits that separate good writers from tragic wannabes2k total shares 10 creative writing exercises to inspire you2k total shares top 10 blogs for writers 2015 – the winners2k total shares 31 ways to find inspiration for your writing2k total shares latest posts tips how joining a virtual book club can help deal with coronavirus stress by marissa decuir resources for writers gratitude journal: how to calm anxiety and boost your immunity by mary jaksch create a book 4 killer ways to find ideas for your next bestseller by dave chesson fiction word count of famous novels (& how long it took to write them)[infographic] by laura tong tips how to make money translating other authors’ works (or your own) by william mamane fiction how to double your chance of landing a book deal (before you’ve written a single word) by verity bright freelancing how to earn money as a freelance writer in 2020 by mary jaksch become a top blogger 5 simple but crippling blogging mistakes (& how to avoid them) by nouman ali tips literary agents: 10 quick tips to snaring a good one by barbara poelle fiction science fiction: the 16 best books to read & study by isabel cabrera copyright: mary jaksch 2008-2019 | privacy | terms and conditions close dialog session expired please log in again. the login page will open in a new tab. after logging in you can close it and return to this page. >