skip to content search primary navigation menu menu about green living guy – seth leitman blog books, services and prices contact user agreement green living guy directory green celebrities green businesses green organizations and non profits green news electric vehicle links energy efficiency links green fashion green news search privacy & cookies: this site uses cookies. by continuing to use this website, you agree to their use. to find out more, including how to control cookies, see here: cookie policy user agreement user agreement please note for this website to remain free and open to the public, we may and may not have paid sponsored links on the post to pay keep the site free. please read this user agreement (collectively with green living guy productions privacy policy and dmca copyright policy at the “user agreement”) fully and carefully before using http://www.greenlivingguy.com (the “site”) and the services, features, content or applications offered by matters media, inc. and our affiliated publications (“we”, “us” or “our”) (together with the site, the “services”). this user agreement set forth the legally binding terms and conditions for your use of the site and the services. greenlivingguy.com service user agreement acceptance of user agreement. 1 by registering for and/or using the services in any manner, including but not limited to visiting or browsing the site, you agree to this user agreement and all other operating rules, policies and procedures that may be published from time to time on the site by us, each of which is incorporated by reference and each of which may be updated from time to time without notice to you. 2 certain of the services may be subject to additional terms and conditions specified by us from time to time; your use of such services is subject to those additional terms and conditions, which are incorporated into this user agreement by this reference. 3 this user agreement applies to all users of the services, including, without limitation, users who are contributors of content, information, and other materials or services, registered or otherwise. 4 arbitration notice and class action waiver: except for certain types of disputes described in the arbitration section below, you agree that disputes between you and us will be resolved by binding, individual arbitration and you waive your right to participate in a class action lawsuit or class-wide arbitration. eligibility. you represent and warrant that you are at least 18 years of age. if you are under age 18, you may not, under any circumstances or for any reason, use the services. we may, in our sole discretion, refuse to offer the services to any person or entity and change its eligibility criteria at any time. you are solely responsible for ensuring that this user agreement is in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations applicable to you and the right to access the services is revoked where this user agreement or use of the services is prohibited or to the extent offering, sale or provision of the services conflicts with any applicable law, rule or regulation. further, the services are offered only for your use, and not for the use or benefit of any third party. registration. you may register for an account on the services (an “account”) using login information. to use certain portions of the services, you are not required to sign up for an account. however, certain features of the service, such as posting to community pages on the site, require you to register for an account. you must provide accurate and complete information and keep your account information updated. you shall not: (i) select or use as a username a name of another person with the intent to impersonate that person; (ii) use as a username a name subject to any rights of a person other than you without appropriate authorization; or (iii) use, as a username, a name that is otherwise offensive, vulgar or obscene. you are solely responsible for the activity that occurs on your account, and for keeping your account password secure. you may never use another person’s user account or registration information for the services without permission. you must notify us immediately of any change in your eligibility to use the services (including any changes to or revocation of any licenses from state authorities), breach of security or unauthorized use of your account. you should never publish, distribute or post login information for your account. you shall have the ability to delete your account, either directly or through a request made to one of our employees or affiliates. by using the services, you are authorizing us to collect, store, retain, and use indefinitely, in accordance with our privacy policy at http://www.greenlivingguy.com/privacy, any and all information that you permitted facebook to provide to us. content. definition. for purposes of this user agreement, the term “content” includes, without limitation, information, data, text, photographs, videos, audio clips, written posts, articles, comments, software, scripts, graphics, and interactive features generated, provided, or otherwise made accessible on or through the services. for the purposes of this agreement, “content” also includes all user content (as defined below). user content. all content added, created, uploaded, submitted, distributed, or posted to the services by users (collectively “user content”), whether publicly posted or privately transmitted, is the sole responsibility of the person who originated such user content. you represent that all user content provided by you is accurate, complete, up-to-date, and in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations. you acknowledge that all content, including user content, accessed by you using the services is at your own risk and you will be solely responsible for any damage or loss to you or any other party resulting therefrom. we do not guarantee that any content you access on or through the services is or will continue to be accurate. notices and restrictions. the services may contain content specifically provided by us, our partners or our users and such content is protected by copyrights, trademarks, service marks, patents, trade secrets or other proprietary rights and laws. you shall abide by and maintain all copyright notices, information, and restrictions contained in any content accessed through the services. use license. subject to this user agreement, we grant each user of the services a worldwide, non-exclusive, non-sublicensable and non-transferable license to use (i.e., to download and display locally) content, to the extent we hold such rights, solely for purposes of using the services. use, reproduction, modification, distribution or storage of any content for other than purposes of using the services is expressly prohibited without prior written permission from us. you shall not sell, license, rent, or otherwise use or exploit any content for commercial use or in any way that violates any third party right. license grant. by submitting user content through the services, you hereby do and shall grant us a worldwide, non-exclusive, perpetual, royalty-free, fully paid, sublicensable and transferable license to use, edit, modify, truncate, aggregate, reproduce, distribute, prepare derivative works of, display, perform, and otherwise fully exploit the user content in connection with the site, the services and our (and our successors’ and assigns’) businesses, including without limitation for promoting and redistributing part or all of the site or the services (and derivative works thereof) in any media formats and through any media channels (including, without limitation, third party websites and feeds), and including after your termination of your account or the services. for the sake of clarity, the foregoing license grant includes our right to distribute, display, perform and otherwise use the user content in connection with material provided by our sponsors, and you shall not be entitled to any remuneration for such use. to the extent any user content you submit includes your name, likeness, voice, or photograph, you acknowledge and agree that the foregoing license of this section 4(e) shall apply to the same. you also hereby do and shall grant each user of the site and/or the services a non-exclusive, perpetual license to access your user content through the site and/or the services, solely for personal use of such user content, including after your termination of your account or the services. for clarity, the foregoing license grants to us and our users do not affect your other ownership or license rights in your user content, including the right to grant additional licenses to your user content, unless otherwise agreed in writing. you represent and warrant that you have all rights to grant such licenses to us without infringement or violation of any third party rights, including without limitation, any privacy rights, publicity rights, copyrights, trademarks, contract rights, or any other intellectual property or proprietary rights.unless otherwise agreed upon in writing by you and green living guy productions, you may not use any third party platforms, other than your own website or your own social media pages, to link to or distribute the content. availability of content. we do not guarantee that any content will be made available on the site or through the services. we reserve the right to, but do not have any obligation to, (i) remove, edit, modify or otherwise manipulate any content in our sole discretion, at any time, without notice to you and for any reason (including, but not limited to, upon receipt of claims or allegations from third parties or authorities relating to such content or if we are concerned that you may have violated this user agreement), or for no reason at all and (ii) to remove or block any content from the services. third party affiliates. we participate in affiliate marketing and may allow affiliate links to be encoded on some of our pages. this means that we may earn a commission if/when you click on or make purchases via affiliate links. rules of conduct. as a condition of use, you promise not to use the services for any purpose that is prohibited by these terms of use. you are responsible for all of your activity in connection with the services.you shall not (and shall not permit any third party to) either (a) take any action or (b) upload, download, post, submit or otherwise distribute or facilitate distribution of any content on or through the service, including without limitation any user content, that: 1 infringes any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright, right of publicity or other right of any other person or entity or violates any law or contractual duty (ask for our glg copyright policy http://www.greenlivingguy.com/); 2 you know is false, misleading, untruthful or inaccurate; 3 is unlawful, threatening, abusive, harassing, defamatory, libelous, deceptive, fraudulent, invasive of another’s privacy, tortious, obscene, vulgar, pornographic, offensive, profane, contains or depicts nudity, contains or depicts sexual activity, or is otherwise inappropriate as determined by us in our sole discretion; 4 constitutes unauthorized or unsolicited advertising, junk or bulk e-mail (“spamming”); 5 contains software viruses or any other computer codes, files, or programs that are designed or intended to disrupt, damage, limit or interfere with the proper function of any software, hardware, or telecommunications equipment or to damage or obtain unauthorized access to any system, data, password or other information of ours or of any third party; 6 impersonates any person or entity, including any of our employees or representatives; or 7 includes anyone’s identification documents or sensitive financial information. you shall not: (i) take any action that imposes or may impose (as determined by us in our sole discretion) an unreasonable or disproportionately large load on our (or our third party providers’) infrastructure; (ii) interfere or attempt to interfere with the proper working of the services or any activities conducted on the services; (iii) bypass, circumvent or attempt to bypass or circumvent any measures we may use to prevent or restrict access to the services (or other accounts, computer systems or networks connected to the services); (iv) run any form of auto-responder or “spam” on the services; (v) use manual or automated software, devices, or other processes to “crawl” or “spider” any page of the site; (vi) harvest or scrape any content from the services; or (vii) otherwise take any action in violation of our guidelines and policies. you shall not (directly or indirectly): (i) decipher, decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer or otherwise attempt to derive any source code or underlying ideas or algorithms of any part of the services (including without limitation any application), except to the limited extent applicable laws specifically prohibit such restriction, (ii) modify, translate, or otherwise create derivative works of any part of the services, or (iii) copy, rent, lease, distribute, or otherwise transfer any of the rights that you receive hereunder. you shall abide by all applicable local, state, national and international laws and regulations. we also reserve the right to access, read, preserve, and disclose any information as we reasonably believe is necessary to (i) satisfy any applicable law, regulation, legal process or governmental request, (ii) enforce this user agreement, including investigation of potential violations hereof, (iii) detect, prevent, or otherwise address fraud, security or technical issues, (iv) respond to user support requests, or (v) protect the rights, property or safety of us, our users and the public. third party services. the services may permit you to link to other websites, services or resources on the internet, including but not limited to our sponsors and facebook, and other websites, services or resources may contain links to the services. when you access third party resources on the internet, you do so at your own risk. these other resources are not under our control, and you acknowledge that we are not responsible or liable for the content, functions, accuracy, legality, appropriateness or any other aspect of such websites or resources. the inclusion of any such link does not imply our endorsement or any association between us and their operators. you further acknowledge and agree that we shall not be responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any such content, goods or services available on or through any such website or resource. termination. we may terminate your access to all or any part of the services at any time, with or without cause, with or without notice, effective immediately, which may result in the forfeiture and destruction of all information associated with your membership. if you wish to terminate your account, you may do so by following the instructions on the site or through the services. all provisions of this user agreement which by their nature should survive termination shall survive termination, including, without limitation, licenses of user content, ownership provisions, warranty disclaimers, indemnity and limitations of liability. warranty disclaimer. we have no special relationship with or fiduciary duty to you. you acknowledge that we have no duty to take any action regarding: 1 which users gain access to the services; 2 what content you access via the services; or 3 how you may interpret or use the content. you release us from all liability for you having acquired or not acquired content through the services. we make no representations concerning any content contained in or accessed through the services, and we will not be responsible or liable for the accuracy, copyright compliance, or legality of material or content contained in or accessed through the services. the services and content are provided “as is”, “as available” and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including, but not limited to, the implied warranties of title, non-infringement, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose, and any warranties implied by any course of performance or usage of trade, all of which are expressly disclaimed. we, and our directors, employees, agents, suppliers, partners and content providers do not warrant that: (i) the services will be secure or available at any particular time or location; (ii) any defects or errors will be corrected; (iii) any content or software available at or through the services is free of viruses or other harmful components; or (iv) the results of using the services will meet your requirements. your use of the services is solely at your own risk. indemnification. you shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless us, our affiliates and each of our and their respective employees, contractors, directors, suppliers and representatives from all liabilities, claims, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, that arise from or relate to your use or misuse of, or access to, the services, content, or otherwise from your user content, violation of this user agreement, or infringement by you, or any third party using your account or identity in the services, of any intellectual property or other right of any person or entity. we reserve the right to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter otherwise subject to indemnification by you, in which event you will assist and cooperate with us in asserting any available defenses. limitation of liability. in no event shall we, nor our directors, employees, agents, partners, suppliers or content providers, be liable under contract, tort, strict liability, negligence or any other legal or equitable theory with respect to the services (i) for any lost profits, data loss, cost of procurement of substitute goods or services, or special, indirect, incidental, punitive, compensatory or consequential damages of any kind whatsoever, substitute goods or services (however arising), (ii) for any bugs, viruses, trojan horses, or the like (regardless of the source of origination), or (iii) for any direct damages in excess of (in the aggregate) $500.00. arbitration clause and class action waiver—important—please review as this affects your legal rights. 1 arbitration. you agree that all disputes between you and us (whether or not such dispute involves a third party) with regard to your relationship with us, including without limitation disputes related to this user agreement, your use of the services, and/or rights of privacy and/or publicity, will be resolved by binding, individual arbitration under the american arbitration association’s rules for arbitration of consumer-related disputes and you and we hereby expressly waive trial by jury. discovery and rights to appeal in arbitration are generally more limited than in a lawsuit, and other rights that you and we would have in court may not be available in arbitration. as an alternative, you may bring your claim in your local “small claims” court, if permitted by that small claims court’s rules and if within such court’s jurisdiction, unless such action is transferred, removed or appealed to a different court. you may bring claims only on your own behalf. neither you nor we will participate in a class action or class-wide arbitration for any claims covered by this agreement to arbitrate. you are giving up your right to participate as a class representative or class member on any class claim you may have against us including any right to class arbitration or any consolidation of individual arbitrations. you also agree not to participate in claims brought in a private attorney general or representative capacity, or consolidated claims involving another person’s account, if we are a party to the proceeding. this dispute resolution provision will be governed by the federal arbitration act and not by any state law concerning arbitration. in the event the american arbitration association is unwilling or unable to set a hearing date within one hundred and sixty (160) days of filing the case, then either we or you can elect to have the arbitration administered instead by the judicial arbitration and mediation services. judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator may be entered in any court having competent jurisdiction. any provision of applicable law notwithstanding, the arbitrator will not have authority to award damages, remedies or awards that conflict with this user agreement. 2 severability. if the prohibition against class actions and other claims brought on behalf of third parties contained above is found to be unenforceable, then all of the preceding language in this arbitration section will be null and void. this arbitration agreement will survive the termination of your relationship with us. governing law and jurisdiction. this user agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state of new york, including its conflicts of law rules, and the united states of america. you agree that any dispute arising from or relating to the subject matter of this user agreement shall be governed by the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts of westchester county, new york. modification. we reserve the right, in our sole discretion, to modify or replace any part of this user agreement, or change, suspend, or discontinue the services (including without limitation, the availability of any feature, database, or content) at any time by posting a notice on the site or by sending you notice through the services, via e-mail or by another appropriate means of electronic communication. we may also impose limits on certain features and services or restrict your access to parts or all of the services without notice or liability. while we will timely provide notice of modifications, it is also your responsibility to check this user agreement periodically for changes. your continued use of the services following notification of any changes to this user agreement constitutes acceptance of those changes. miscellaneous. entire agreement and severability. this user agreement is the entire agreement between you and us with respect to the services, including use of the site, and supersede all prior or contemporaneous communications and proposals (whether oral, written or electronic) between you and us with respect to the services. if any provision of this user agreement is found to be unenforceable or invalid, that provision will be limited or eliminated to the minimum extent necessary so that this user agreement will otherwise remain in full force and effect and enforceable. the failure of either party to exercise in any respect any right provided for herein shall not be deemed a waiver of any further rights hereunder force majeure. we shall not be liable for any failure to perform our obligations hereunder where such failure results from any cause beyond our reasonable control, including, without limitation, mechanical, electronic or communications failure or degradation. assignment. this user agreement is personal to you, and is not assignable, transferable or sublicensable by you except with our prior written consent. we may assign, transfer or delegate any of our rights and obligations hereunder without consent. agency. no agency, partnership, joint venture, or employment relationship is created as a result of this user agreement and neither party has any authority of any kind to bind the other in any respect. notices. unless otherwise specified in this user agreement, all notices under this user agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been duly given when received, if personally delivered or sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested; when receipt is electronically confirmed, if transmitted by facsimile or e-mail; or the day after it is sent, if sent for next day delivery by recognized overnight delivery service. electronic notices should be sent to seth@greenlivingguy.com. no waiver. our failure to enforce any part of this user agreement shall not constitute a waiver of our right to later enforce that or any other part of this user agreement. waiver of compliance in any particular instance does not mean that we will waive compliance in the future. in order for any waiver of compliance with this user agreement to be binding, we must provide you with written notice of such waiver through one of our authorized representatives. headings. the section and paragraph headings in this user agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect their interpretation. contact. you may contact us at the following: seth@greenlivingguy.com effective date of user agreement: 01-01-2017 share this: share email print whatsapp tweet 2018-05-08 by: greenlivingguy on: may 8, 2018 meta register log in entries feed comments feed wordpress.org https://greenlivingguy.files.wordpress.com/2017/05/green_recycling_hd.mp4 recent posts living off the grid: 24 items you need so you don’t lose power plastic diets in zero waste cities are the solution to plastic pollution 10 ways to teach your kids how to save energy & money energy efficiency policies could save the u.s. economy almost $1 trillion minit charger unveils revolutionary minit charger archives archives select month march 2020 february 2020 january 2020 december 2019 november 2019 october 2019 september 2019 august 2019 july 2019 june 2019 may 2019 april 2019 march 2019 february 2019 january 2019 december 2018 november 2018 october 2018 september 2018 august 2018 july 2018 june 2018 may 2018 april 2018 march 2018 february 2018 january 2018 december 2017 november 2017 october 2017 september 2017 august 2017 july 2017 june 2017 may 2017 april 2017 march 2017 february 2017 january 2017 december 2016 november 2016 october 2016 september 2016 august 2016 july 2016 june 2016 may 2016 april 2016 march 2016 february 2016 january 2016 december 2015 november 2015 october 2015 september 2015 august 2015 july 2015 june 2015 may 2015 april 2015 march 2015 february 2015 january 2015 december 2014 november 2014 october 2014 september 2014 august 2014 july 2014 june 2014 may 2014 april 2014 march 2014 february 2014 january 2014 december 2013 november 2013 october 2013 september 2013 august 2013 july 2013 june 2013 may 2013 april 2013 march 2013 february 2013 january 2013 december 2012 november 2012 october 2012 september 2012 august 2012 july 2012 june 2012 may 2012 april 2012 march 2012 february 2012 january 2012 december 2011 november 2011 october 2011 september 2011 august 2011 july 2011 june 2011 may 2011 april 2011 march 2011 february 2011 january 2011 december 2010 november 2010 october 2010 september 2010 august 2010 july 2010 june 2010 may 2010 april 2010 march 2010 february 2010 january 2010 december 2009 november 2009 october 2009 september 2009 august 2009 july 2009 june 2009 may 2009 april 2009 march 2009 february 2009 january 2009 december 2008 november 2008 october 2008 august 2008 july 2008 june 2008 may 2008 april 2008 march 2008 february 2008 december 2007 august 2007 july 2007 june 2007 may 2007 april 2007 march 2007 january 2007 november 2006 september 2006 august 2006 june 2006 april 2006 march 2006 february 2006 december 2005 november 2005 october 2005 july 2005 june 2005 may 2005 follow me on twittermy tweets follow us twitter twitter designed using unos. powered by powered by wordpress.com. send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email.