home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library food and drink prevnext vegan bean lasagne leyla preston tue 28th jan 2020 1shares share tweet pin *this recipe is sponsored by ocado in partnership with ciao gusto* i have made so many lasagnes in the last nine years (about the time my boys started eating) and no one lasagne has ever been the same. so i’ve teamed up with ocado to let you know about the new offers from ciao gusto coming soon! ciao gusto is host to some amazing brands including valsoia who stock a vast range of dairy-free milk (almond, oat, coconut/almond, and walnut) and their chocolate spread and/or gelato. as i am a keen lasagne fiend, i found that valsoia actually sells readymade bechamel sauces. so i present to you my (very first) vegan bean lasagne! pin print table of contents vegan bean lasagne ingredients directions recipe video notes vegan bean lasagnerecipe by motherhood diariescourse: mains, vegan, one pot dishes, school night dinnerscuisine: british, italiandifficulty: medium servings 4-6servings prep time 20minutes cooking time 40minutes total time 1hour 10minutes a completely meat and dairy-free lasagne that contains all your essential food groups for a ingredients for the lasagne sauce 400g meat-free mince, thawed 2 tins of chopped tomatoes 2 cans of frozen mixed veg lasagne sheets from a 500g packet 2 tbsps. tomato puree 2 red onions, finely chopped 3-5 stalks of celery, finely chopped 2 pinches of brown sugar 1 tbsp. sunflower oil for the white sauce 2 x 200ml valsoia bechamel sauce 200g of grated violife cheese for the seasoning 2 tbsps. soy sauce 1 tbsps maple syrup 1 tbsp. vegetable bouillon 1 tsp. smoked paprika dash of cumin directions preheat your oven to 175c/350f/gm 3 and grab a casserole dish/baking tray and a large pan chop onions and celery finely and add 1 tbsps. sunflower oil to the large pan. saute the onions and celery for a few minutes until translucent. add 2 pinches of brown sugar to caramelise them a bit too. add the minced meat and cook on medium heat for around 8 to 10 minutes until lightly browned add 2 tbsps. of tomato puree to the sauce and mix well now add the 2 tins of chopped tomatoes and mix well – don’t throw away the tins or rinse them out yet! rinse the beans and add to the pan add the frozen mixed veg and mix well – the water from the melted ice will help to soften the sauce turn the heat down low and prepare your seasoning. keep mixing the sauce while you’re doing this step mix the seasoning ingredients together: 2 tbsps. soy sauce, 1 tbsp. maple syrup, 1 tbsp. vegetable bouillon, 1 tsp. smoked paprika and a dash of cumin. add to the sauce and mix well now take your emptied tomato sauce and add hot water. then pour into the seasoning mug. mix the remnants and then add to the sauce, season with salt and pepper to taste with the heat down low, leave the sauce to simmer while you make your bechamel sauce grab your valsoia readymade bechamel sauce and place in a pan on warm heat – you don’t want to boil the sauce, just warm it up add the violife grated cheese and mix well now grab your tray and your lasagne sheets because we’re going to layer up! first up, start your lasagne with a thin layer of meat sauce, then cover the sauce with a thin layer of white sauce. now cover your mix with a pasta sheets repeat step 16, but on the last layer, add pasta sheets to your meat sauce and then layer the lasagne sheets with the rest of the white sauce. add the rest of the grated cheese on top place your tray in the middle shelf of the oven for 40 – 45 minutes, until the top has been browned and the pasta has cooked through recipe video notes you can add or remove any ingredient you want to the lasagne – the world is your oyster! recipe card plugin by wpzoom leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:lasagneveganvegan bean lasagne related posts gluten free vegan strawberry crumble about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok