about cookbook shop subscribe cookie and kate whole foods and vegetarian recipe blog all recipes view all course appetizers baked goods breakfast cookies dessert dips & sauces dinner drinks salads sides snacks soups cuisine asian indian italian mediterranean mexican diet dairy free egg free gluten free gf & dairy free gf & vegan nut free soy free sugar free tomato free vegan everyday all-time favorites budget friendly fast breakfasts pack for lunch pantry friendly weeknight dinners ingredient view all avocado black beans chickpeas eggs kale oats pasta quinoa sweet potatoes season spring summer fall winter monthly guides breakfast salad soup dinner dessert favorites our cookbook, love real food, is here! get your copy ↣ west african peanut soup 981 comments jump to recipe i know that peanut butter, tomatoes and collard greens may seem like a regrettable combination, but i hope you’ll trust me on this one. this homely soup is good—so good that i’m almost tempted to: put on my big puffy coat. shovel my car out from under 10 inches of snow. drive to the store for collard greens so i can make more soup. almost. this recipe is courtesy of my most handsome fellow. he’s a good cook (jackpot!), one who is more apt to follow his instincts than consult a cookbook. this recipe is from one of his two cookbooks, a random, photo-less vegan cookbook called local bounty. with the author’s headnote, “of all the soups we serve in my restaurant, this one is by far the most popular,” and his endorsement, i trusted that this soup was a safe bet. if you love this recipe, be sure to check out the revamped peanut soup with sweet potatoes and chickpeas in my cookbook! we taste tested the soup with a few different hot sauces (none of them african) and decided that sriracha was the best. it provides just the right punch of heat. the end result is a creamy, nourishing soup made of basic pantry ingredients, herbs and greens. it doesn’t require much prep and the hot sauce cuts down on the total number of ingredients, so it’s perfect for cold days and lazy weeknights. print vegetarian west african peanut soup author: cookie and kate prep time: 10 mins cook time: 35 mins total time: 45 minutes yield: 4 1x category: soup method: stovetop cuisine: african ★★★★★ 4.9 from 334 reviews this west african peanut soup recipe is a creamy and comforting, spicy vegan soup. made with a simple combination of peanut butter, tomato paste and collard greens, this soup comes together quickly and would be a great weeknight meal. if you love spicy flavors like me, don’t hesitate to use liberal amounts of ginger and garlic. scale 1x2x3x ingredients 4 cups low-sodium vegetable broth 2 cups water 1 medium red onion, chopped 2 tablespoons peeled and minced fresh ginger 4 cloves garlic, minced 1 teaspoon salt 1 bunch collard greens (or kale), ribs removed and leaves chopped into 1-inch strips ¾ cup unsalted peanut butter (chunky or smooth) ½ cup tomato paste* hot sauce, like sriracha (aka rooster sauce) ¼ cup roughly chopped peanuts, for garnish cooked brown rice, for serving (optional) instructions combine the broth and water in a medium dutch oven or stock pot. bring the mixture to a boil, then add the onion, ginger, garlic and salt. cook on medium-low heat for 20 minutes. in a medium-sized, heat-safe mixing bowl, combine the peanut butter and tomato paste, then transfer 1 to 2 cups of the hot stock to the bowl. whisk the mixture together until smooth, then pour the peanut mixture back into the soup and mix well. stir in the collard greens and season the soup with hot sauce to taste. simmer for about 15 more minutes on medium-low heat, stirring often. season with additional salt or hot sauce if desired. serve over cooked brown rice if you’d like, and top with a sprinkle of chopped peanuts. notes adapted from local bounty: vegan seasonal recipes by devra gartenstein. *the cookbook author suggested that 1 cup canned crushed tomatoes is a suitable substitution for the tomato paste, but commenters report that the crushed tomatoes produce a runny soup (unlike the thick soup shown here). i highly recommend using tomato paste if you can find it. i also recommend muir glen‘s organic tomato products—they come in bpa-free cans and seem to be readily available. most african peanut soup recipes include sweet potatoes. i suppose you could toss in a chopped sweet potato when you bring the stock to a boil, but i liked the soup as is. ▸ nutrition information the information shown is an estimate provided by an online nutrition calculator. it should not be considered a substitute for a professional nutritionist’s advice. did you make this recipe? please let me know how it turned out for you! leave a comment below and share a picture on instagram with the hashtag #cookieandkate. similar recipes best lentil soup mango “burrito” bowls with crispy tofu and peanut sauce crunchy thai peanut & quinoa salad share this post p pin f share t tweet e email ▸ categories african, budget friendly, dairy free, easy weeknight dinners, egg free, favorites, gluten free, main dishes, pack for lunch, pantry friendly, recipes, soups and stews, soy free, vegan, winter ▸ ingredients brown rice, collard greens, kale, peanut butter, peanuts, tomatoes ↢ newer lentil and mushroom meatballs older ↣ gluten-free chocolate chip cookies by kathryne taylor vegetable enthusiast. dog lover. i'm probably making a big mess in my kansas city kitchen right now. more about cookie and kate » follow us! instagram ⋄ pinterest ⋄ facebook never miss a new recipe subscribe to our email newsletter! as a thank you, we'll give you our welcome guide with 5 printable dinner recipes. (it's all free.) enter your email address... comments leave a comment below: cancel reply your comments make my day. thank you! if you made the recipe, please choose a star rating, too. comment rate this recipe ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ ★☆ name * email * email me when kate or another c+k reader replies directly to my comment. (you will not be subscribed to our email newsletter.) luis august 30, 2019 amazing soup ….. love it love it love it …. keep telling my friends about your site and your recipes …. thank god you exist ★★★★★ reply christina september 2, 2019 i lived in benin and togo for a year as an aid worker and this soup warms my heart and brings back a sweet nostalgia from living in this beautiful place… thank you so much for this delicious recipe! they commonly pair this with fufu- a mashed up starchy root. typically a long process to make, but you can find online for an easy instant version. thanks again! ★★★★★ reply charla september 12, 2019 freakishly good! comforting, warm, and satisfying. also made some without the rooster sauce, and poured over rice for my one year old son; he loved it. thanks for the share! ★★★★★ reply sarah september 3, 2019 planning to make this tonight. the recipe calls for unsalted peanut butter but should it be sweetened peanut butter or the unsweetened “natural” kind that you have to mix the oil back in as it separates? reply kate september 4, 2019 i suggest a natural peanut butter. i hope this helps! reply emily september 8, 2019 i have been thinking about this soup all summer. i kept telling myself “it’s too early for soup, i’m not going to make it yet.” well, even though it’s 87 degrees where i live today, i went ahead and made it because i couldn’t wait any longer (and it’s september which means it’s soup season now, right?) it was amazing. i enjoyed it with a pumpkin beer to usher in fall :) i made a couple of alterations: i couldn’t find unsalted peanut butter, so i used regular natural peanut butter (just peanuts and salt). i also underestimated how much vegetable broth i would need, so i used 4 cups of low sodium vegetable broth, and 2 cups of regular vegetable stock. because of the extra salt from my modifications, i didn’t add any salt to the soup. i’m so happy with this soup, and can’t wait to eat the leftovers!! ★★★★★ reply kate september 12, 2019 i love that, emily! soup all time, if you love it right :) thanks for your review! reply tawana r. richardson september 17, 2019 this is a delicious recipe! next time i will add in the sweet potato! thanks for sharing! ★★★★★ reply nicole september 21, 2019 just made this and it’s soooooo good! quick question about the ginger. i feel like i chopped it pretty small, but it still feels almost raw when i chew it. any tips for next time? thank you for the recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate september 23, 2019 you could try to grate it next time. thanks for your feedback, nicole! reply martha sternitzke september 22, 2019 have made several times. it is a winner! the more greens, the better. freezes well and in my opinion tastes even better after freezing and reheating. ★★★★★ reply kate september 23, 2019 wonderful, martha! thanks for your review. reply real african september 22, 2019 you white washed an authentic staple. this is far from west african. i recommend when paying homage you get the story of the culture right and not disrespect with sirachha or whatever substitutes you deem right. authentic ground nut soup does not garnish with peanuts or use collard greens. ★ reply kate september 26, 2019 hello, i’m sorry this recipe frustrates you. i try to keep recipes as authentic as i can and adding my interpretation. i do appreciate your feedback! reply melissa nikolai october 13, 2019 boy, there are a few grumpy people on this page. i guess you should title this recipe “white girl’s adaptation of an african stew” haha. this is a delicious version of a dish i may never otherwise get to experience, and i appreciate your spin on it. you are a creative and talented cook. one question, i watch your little videos that show up next to the recipes but i don’t see anything to click on to be able to access that recipe. i don’t necessarily always have the time to go to the website and search the recipe, especially if it isn’t named. thanks! ★★★★★ reply kate october 14, 2019 hi melissa! i appreciate it. i do try to keep recipes as authentic as i can, but put a twist on it. it’s helpful to hear feedback, though. thanks for your feedback on the videos! reply ashton e skelton february 15, 2020 i don’t recall her ever stating that this was authentic. she is constantly recreating recipes, it’s part of being a good cook. taking good food and putting your own spin on it. i understand that you are connected to your culture and a certain type of cuisine, but that doesn’t mean you can flip out at anybody who interprets it differently. if that were the case there would be no music, no new recipes, no new movies. everything is recycled because half the time creativity is just adding on to old ideas. inspiration comes often from the beautiful and wonderful things that came before us, in and out of our own culture. i think as long as she’s doing her best to create good food, she’s not bastardizing anything. she never made a claim that this was authentic. and instead of being angry over something as ridiculous as a soup that is helping a lot of people find any easy dinner option, perhaps you could be excited that this soup could be a stepping stone to a cuisine that people have never tried before, and therefore would try the actual authentic version from west african culture in the future when they wouldn’t have before. reply naa september 24, 2019 this is not authentic at all. this is the most westernized version i have seen thus far. ★ reply kate september 25, 2019 i’m sorry you didn’t find this authentic. thanks for your feedback, naa. i try to keep recipes as authentic as i can, while making ingredients attainable. reply eviva kahne october 4, 2019 how long will this last in the fridge? i’m hoping to make this ahead of time for a friend! reply kate october 9, 2019 it should last a few days! reply eviva kahne october 9, 2019 thank you!!! been wanting to make for a while so i’m very excited to see how it turns out. :) reply jennifer october 5, 2019 delicious! i added two medium sweet potatoes (diced) and a can of chickpeas; used 1/2 teaspoon cayenne instead of hot sauce; and since i didn’t have enough peanut butter, i topped it up with some tahini. ★★★★★ reply kate october 9, 2019 thanks for sharing your variation, jennifer! reply olivia october 9, 2019 i made this but i really hate peanut butter, so i used almond butter instead. it turned out pretty good, and i also added some red lentils to add more protein. ★★★★ reply kate october 17, 2019 great it worked so well with the almond butter, olivia! i appreciate your review. reply julie october 15, 2019 i love this soup and so did my dinner guests! i will definitely be making it again…and again. wondering if it freezes well. has anyone tried it? ★★★★★ reply kate october 16, 2019 i believe others have froze this and liked the results! reply kate juengerman october 29, 2019 thanks for sharing! i need to cook ahead some and wonder how this would freeze. now i don’t have to worry reply chelsea october 30, 2019 one of the best things i’ve made or had in a long time. thank you for sharing, regardless of authenticity, i found the simplicity helpful for my schedule. ★★★★★ reply kate october 30, 2019 you’re welcome, chelsea! reply cherie shoemaker november 8, 2019 i would not have any idea what is authentic but i do know what tastes good and this soup was amazing! i did make substitutions because i didn’t have all the ingredients. i used chicken broth and organic salted peanut butter. nonetheless, it was sooo good that everyone at the dinner party wanted this recipe and are also passing it on as one of the best soups ever! thank you for providing such an amazing recipe! again, oh well if authenticity doesn’t call for crushed peanuts as a garnish! nothing like making a soup even better!! thank you!!! ★★★★★ reply kate november 11, 2019 thank you for sharing, cherie! i’m happy you were able to make this work with what you have on hand. reply amy lakin november 11, 2019 deeeelicious!!! i will definitely be making this a staple fall/winter recipe! thanks kate! ★★★★★ reply shelby november 11, 2019 so i’m giving this 5 stars, but i didn’t make it quite like the recipe called for becausr i used only what i had on hand (its cold and wet outside and i didn’t want to go to the store lol!). i used 1/2 tsp of ground ginger instea of fresh, and sauteed it with the garlic and onion before adding the broth. i 3nded up using 6 cups of water and dropping in 6 chicken boullion cubes because i didn’t have any kind of broth on hand. i know this wouldn’t work for vegetarians or vegans, but it was okay for me and my roommate. i used good ol’ jif peanutbutter, and i subbed spinach for kale, and added a can of cannellini beans for protein. no sweet potato because i didn’t feel like chopping one up. i ended up garnishing it with crushed honey roasted peanuts, which was really good. despite all these things, this turned out absolutely delicious and filling. will try making it exactly by recipe when i get the chance and report back! ★★★★★ reply yara november 12, 2019 i discovered this recipe quite a while ago & made it so many times. we absolutely love it. we have sometimes used other ingredients depending on what we have in the cupboard. sweet peanut butter, dried garlic & ginger still produce a lovely soup. thanks for sharing. ★★★★★ reply kate november 14, 2019 thanks for sharing, yara! i’m glad this one is a staple for you. reply jade branden november 13, 2019 oh my goodness! this recipe is life changing. i shared your recipe with social media friends…thank you! thank you…! ★★★★★ reply lynn november 20, 2019 my husband made this last night and wow. i can not get enough. can not wait to see more of your recipes. ★★★★★ reply miri november 20, 2019 this is honestly my favorite recipe in the whole world. i’ve made it probably a dozen times and love it more each time i eat it. it’s got the perfect balance of flavor and texture. savory, spicy, and rich. then you get the crunch of the collard greens. yum! i do always add a sweet potato (listed in the notes), and really enjoy the texture it adds. i can’t wait to make this again! thank you for showing me how to make my favorite food, kate! ★★★★★ reply kate november 21, 2019 this soup really is pretty great! i’m happy you agree. i appreciate your comment and review, miri! reply shanna november 23, 2019 does this soup freeze well? ★★★★★ reply kate november 25, 2019 i believe others have had good luck with this one! reply kara november 24, 2019 delicious soup!!!! i haven’t found a recipes of yours i haven’t liked. i also made your tortilla soup today. very delicious as well!!!! if you had to pick your top 2 favorites of your soups which would you pick. thank you ★★★★★ reply kate november 27, 2019 thank you, kara! reply kat november 28, 2019 this is delicious. i made it from your cookbook and served it over rice like you suggested and it is a family staple! thank you so much for this awesome recipe! ★★★★★ reply aida december 4, 2019 i made this soup tonight and it was phenomenal over some jasmine rice. it’s flavorful and perfect for this time of year, so the recipe itself gets 5 stars. i do, however, see the points being made in the comments about appropriating the food of a culture that isn’t ours, and think that while you’ve shown some willingness to listen to the people who called you out on that, you haven’t actually done anything in response, which means the words you’ve said so far are pretty empty. it would be such an easy thing to address by changing the name of the recipe and adding a note as to why you did that. some food for thought. ★★★★★ reply kate december 5, 2019 hi aida, i’m happy you enjoyed the soup. i’m sorry you are frustrated by my approach to this recipe. i do my best, as i noted, to keep recipes as authentic as possible. but also adding my take on the recipe. i do appreciate your feedback! reply kim december 7, 2019 uh-mazing! this soup is so good!!!! my carnivorous husband loved it, and has said “that soup was really good” about 5 times now. even my picky 14yo son gobbled it up! i always love your recipes. thank you! :) ★★★★★ reply kate december 10, 2019 you’re welcome! i’m glad your picky eater was able to enjoy it, too. reply leigh-anne december 11, 2019 such a delicious soup for this cold december day. thank you! ★★★★★ reply te december 12, 2019 i made the soup with the tomato paste and it still turned out thinner than i had anticipated. i reviewed the list of ingredients and instructions trying to determine if i had made a mistake somewhere. i would prefer not to add the sweet potato. the flavor was good, but the consistency was not what i was looking for. any suggestions? reply kate december 16, 2019 i’m sorry you didn’t like it. did you not add the sweet potato? reply susie december 26, 2019 we made this for a quick christmas eve supper after a day of prepping for christmas. it was quick, easy and really delicious! thank you. ★★★★★ reply kate december 27, 2019 you’re welcome, susie! thanks for your review. reply rin december 27, 2019 this recipe has become a family favourite! it’s pretty versatile as well. i’ve made it to the recipe many times, and i’ve had to improvise as well and it always comes out delicious. my entire family has the flu, so i made this soup with a bunch of extra ginger and garlic ( had to use regular peanut butter and no greens this time as it’s all i had and i’m 8 months pregnant on top of everything and too tired to run to the store haha) and poured it over brown rice in individual bowls. even my 3 year old ate a healthy bowl of it and we all know how hard it is to get a sick toddler to eat. was the first thing he’s eaten in 24 hours and i can tell he feels a bit better. :) it’s easy on a sore throat and helps perk up an appetite. best recipe in my arsenal now i’m sure! ★★★★★ reply kate january 1, 2020 hooray! thanks for your comment, rin. reply britt december 29, 2019 i really enjoyed this recipe. it is relatively simple to make while being a very hearty and flavorful vegan meal that is well balanced both in terms of flavor and texture. i will surely make it again in the future. thank you for sharing. ★★★★★ reply kate january 1, 2020 you’re welcome, britt! reply sheila january 5, 2020 i always serve this soup over farro, which gives it a nice texture and is super filling. this is a go-to for a quick dinner and is always a pleaser. thanks!!! ★★★★★ reply kate january 5, 2020 you’re welcome, sheila! reply nan january 9, 2020 i made this last night, substituting pb2 for the peanut butter since i follow a no-oil diet. it was fantastic last night, and even better for lunch today! ★★★★★ reply kate january 9, 2020 i’m happy you were able to make it work! reply dina january 12, 2020 this was absolutely fantastic, kate! we just had it for dinner, it was amazing! i had never even heard of a peanut soup before and i was a bit skeptical at first (not a big fan of ginger) but it was soooooooo delicious. i didn’t have sriracha and hubby is not a big fan of spicy so i just topped my bowl with red pepper flakes and it was perfect. will make a wild/brown rice mix to have it with tomorrow (we had a big country loaf with grains to accompany it today and it was great!!) i had this recipe saved for a while and i’m so glad i finally got around to it! ★★★★★ reply kate january 17, 2020 i’m glad you still tried it even being skeptical, dina! thank you for your review. reply reed january 16, 2020 my friend sent me this recipe and it was delicious. tasted even better the second and third night as leftovers. i actually like it with the sweet potato so i will add more next time. also threw in a little dried mango powder (amchur), because i thought it might go with the other flavors. perfect for winter when i need something to warm me up. ★★★★★ reply janeen january 19, 2020 i’ve started out 2020 determined to eat healthier. i’ve been trying various vegetarian recipes i find on pinterest. i made this one today and it is delicious! the reviews were so good that i doubled the recipe so we had plenty for left overs. i look forward to those! it was delicious per the recipe, but we also added a can of coconut milk to make it even more creamy. i think next time i will also add some pumpkin or sweet potato cubes. it’s a delicious recipe though! thank you for sharing! ★★★★★ reply kate january 20, 2020 you’re welcome, janeen! reply nicole january 21, 2020 does this recipe freeze well? ★★★★★ reply kate january 21, 2020 i haven’t froze this one, but i believe others have and liked the result! reply jaymie lollie january 27, 2020 just made this! meal prep sunday got a boost with this! reply kate january 28, 2020 great to hear! reply julie january 28, 2020 made this tonight for me and my husband. we loved it! it was so easy and the flavors were amazing. i added a scoop of brown rice and 1/2 cup diced, roasted sweet potato to each bowl. can’t wait to eat leftovers tomorrow. ★★★★★ reply jim january 28, 2020 awesome recipe. i oven roasted some cubed yam with olive oil and topped each bowl of soup with a big pile of yams and peanuts. lots of siracha too! ★★★★★ reply rebecca january 29, 2020 i learned roughly this recipe (as “groundnut stew”) from a vegetarian boyfriend who’d spent time in west africa and have been making it ever since. i do use crushed and/or diced tomatoes but no or not much broth (i also normally add fuming and either coriander or sometimes oregano if i’m in a chili-ish mood), plus usually a smoky chipotle pepper or two. also, i recommend experimenting with the vegetables; i normally do greens, at least one root or tuber, and chickpeas or crumbled tempeh, but the veggies vary widely: carrots, turnips, sweet or white potatoes; zucchini or winter squash, mushrooms (which are wonderful), or even frozen peas and corn once when i was stuck in the house. also, it’s great served over polenta or even noodles as well as rice. ★★★★ reply thomas fahlberg february 8, 2020 i’ve made this a dozen times now, and everyone has loved it. today i’m making it for the second time for a friend who specifically requested it for his birthday party. agree with your recommendation to use the tomato paste. tried the crushed tomatoes, and there is no comparison. the tomato paste makes a much creamier soup. cookie is a lucky boy to get the scraps from your kitchen. ★★★★★ reply kate february 10, 2020 hi! i’m another kate. :) i just made this for our supper, and even my meat-and-potatoes-guy husband liked it. ★★★★★ reply kate february 13, 2020 hi kate! thanks for sharing. i’m happy you both were able to enjoy this recipe. reply marquita february 14, 2020 this has become a staple in my home. i love it! thank you! ★★★★★ reply marina february 16, 2020 this is delicious! i just made it and it turned out fantastic! thank you so much for this recipe; i am looking forward to my lunches this week. ★★★★★ reply lauren vaught february 18, 2020 omg! we had peanut soup at a local restaurant recently and my husband just about dove into the bowl. so, of course i wanted to replicate it and found your simple and beautiful recipe. i write and create my own plant-based recipes, and often refer to other sites like yours for additional inspiration. this was a huge hit and i’ll be making it many more times! ★★★★★ reply amy february 26, 2020 hi kate did your carb count factor in the rice? i’m trying to figure out if the soup alone is ok for me to eat on low carb diet but 32.8 seems high. thanks. reply kate march 4, 2020 hi amy! yes, this counted the rice. reply patricia mcclung march 4, 2020 this is a family (and book club!) favorite. even my 2 year old granddaughter kept asking for “mo, mo pweez.” it’s easy and so yummy. served over brown rice as you suggested makes for a very satisfying meal. thanks so much! ★★★★★ reply susan march 5, 2020 received frozen collard greens in my farm share, and i was like ugh, what am i going to do with those? found this recipe in your cookbook, and it was easy and tasty. even my beef-loving husband thought it was quite good. will definitely make it again, even when i am not just looking to use up collard greens! ★★★★★ reply stephanie lent march 6, 2020 hi kate! i love this recipe (and many more of yours!) and have made it many times. i just took a look again to refresh my memory since i have an abundance of spinach and kale to use up – gonna try them both out in it. i’ve used both in the past, but never together. i’m sure it will turn out great! my question is: why is the sodium content so high for this soup? does that come from the broth specifically? thanks! reply kate march 10, 2020 hi stephanie, thanks for the note! i just double-checked the nutrition information for this recipe, and it was actually inflated—the recipe calls for low-sodium broth but the facts were based on regular. head smack. i’ve switched it to low-sodium, and also changed the recipe to call for 4 cups broth plus 2 cups water, since most broths are sold by the quart. anyway, the sodium content is now reduced by half, but please keep in mind that nutrition information is always an estimate and depends on the brands used, etc. reply michelle march 7, 2020 i just had this soup for lunch at a buddhist silent retreat!! it was wonderful! all the attendees loved it! so glad i found this recipe!! thank you ★★★★★ reply wendy march 11, 2020 very nice and interestingly different tasting soup added one small chilli and small peri peri sauce ★★★★★ reply courtney march 11, 2020 we love this! have you tried freezing it? reply kate march 11, 2020 hi courtney! i haven’t, but you could check the other comments to see what others may recommend. reply emily march 16, 2020 one of my favorite soups ever! i opted to swap the collards for kale and was really happy with that decision. this soup is proteinaceous/hearty and filling without being too indulgent. it smells fantastic and everyone in my office wanted the recipe! definitely took me longer than 10 minutes to prepare but doesn’t really matter. thanks for all of your great recipes :) ★★★★★ reply ana march 18, 2020 thank you for sharing your awesome recipes. love how colorful they are. i grew up in africa and this recipe doesn’t ring a bell, but, the peanuts and hot sauce combination is definitely present in a lot of delicious dishes. and deliciousness has no borders. thank you kate. reply linda march 20, 2020 made this delicious peanut soup today. added a sweet potato and extra ginger and garlic. it’s the perfect food for a cold day while sheltering in place. thanks for the fabulous recipe! ★★★★★ reply kate march 20, 2020 you’re welcome, linda! reply laura march 20, 2020 hi there kate! i can’t wait to make this soup -and have a fresh jar of ginger and garlic paste bought at the local indian market. my question is whether or not i can substitute this for the garlic and ginger in the soup. i also have only tomato sauce and no paste- so possibly i can thicken the soup with a starch? sincerely, as i contemplate leaving the isolation to go to grocery store, laura reply kate march 20, 2020 you could try it with paste for those, although i haven’t it. that would be a good way to get creative! as for thickening it, the paste doesn’t thicken it. it’s a mater of flavor. reply brian march 21, 2020 why did you change it? ★★★★★ reply kate march 23, 2020 hi brian, i’m not sure what you mean? reply madeline march 22, 2020 this was delicious! thank you! ★★★★★ reply kate march 24, 2020 you’re welcome, madeline! reply jim clark march 22, 2020 this looks yummy! i can’t wait to try it when it’s cold again. (of course, i’m going to try it well before then.) reply alexandra n march 27, 2020 someone may have already asked this but… i can’t find fresh ginger so how much powdered ginger should i use instead? reply kate march 27, 2020 hi alexandra! here is a great reference in my food storage post! when substituting dried herbs for fresh, use one-third of the amount specified (so if a recipe calls for one tablespoon—which is three teaspoons—fresh dill, use one teaspoon dried dill). you can always add more if desired. https://cookieandkate.com/food-storage-tips/ reply « older comments hello! i cook fresh, vegetarian recipes. my dog, cookie, catches the crumbs. about c+k » contact ⋄ new here? ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe fpityhr amazon ⋄ barnes & noble ⋄ more » don’t miss a new recipe your email address popular recipes ratatouille creamy roasted cauliflower soup more favorites » stay in touch enter your email here our free email newsletter delivers new recipes and special cookie + kate updates! f p i y about ⋄ contact ⋄ cookbook ⋄ recipes ⋄ shop ⋄ subscribe cookie and kate receives commissions on purchases made through our links to retailers. more details » © cookie and kate 2010 - 2020. all rights reserved. cookie and kate is a registered trademark of cookie and kate llc. comment policy ⋄ nutrition disclaimer ⋄ photo/recipe policy ⋄ privacy policy never miss a recipe subscribe to our newsletter! always free • unsubscribe anytime your email address no, thanks. {"cookiename":"wbounce","isaggressive":false,"issitewide":true,"hesitation":"10","openanimation":false,"exitanimation":false,"timer":"","sensitivity":"","cookieexpire":"30","cookiedomain":"","autofire":"","isanalyticsenabled":true}