friday, 27 march 2020 corona-vultures in the temperance movement the international order of good templars has changed its name to movendi international, presumably in the hope that adopting a bland, corporate name will make people forget that it is one of the world's oldest gospel temperance groups. the anti-saloon league and the uk temperance alliance did the same thing and are now trading as the american council on alcohol problems and the institute of alcohol studies, respectively. what is it about their origins that they are so ashamed of? like nearly every other single issue pressure group these days, the folks at 'movendi' are trying to exploit the coronovirus pandemic for their own ends. they are very concerned about - you guessed it - the alcohol industry. major alcohol producers have announced their commitment to helping fight the novel coronavirus, covid-19. alcohol producers are shifting production to make hand sanitizers. the alcohol industry is doing valuable public health work. that must sting. while this is welcome, there are several reasons for caution and concern. such as? producing hand sanitizers and taking care of employees is the least the alcohol industry can do in this crisis. other people and professions are contributing with far greater efforts to the fight against the pandemic. but not movendi, because movendi is a puritanical lobby group that has nothing to offer. movendi international cautions against the promotion of alcohol brands, free media coverage and pr-celebrations of an industry that is not and has never been a responsible corporate citizen. political leaders and the media should refrain from providing a platform for brand exposure and free coverage of a health harmful industry. yeah, because people thinking well of the alcohol industry is the real issue at the moment, isn't it? get a grip. corporate social responsibility initiatives are known to be strategies by the alcohol industry to do well by appearing to do good. they are doing good. suck it up. movendi's demands won't surprise you... declare alcohol retail outlets non-essential and find effective ways to provide services for all people, alcohol users and non-users, affected by alcohol harm during the crisis. this is straight out of the anti-saloon league's playbook. remember this? they continue... alcohol is not an ordinary commodity and alcohol harm is multifaceted and pervasive. a major dimension of alcohol harm is the damage to others than the alcohol user. comprehensive impact assessments should be conducted and will lead to the conclusions that alcohol retail outlets are non-essential businesses... they will, will they? i know that the quack social science of 'alcohol control' styarts with the conclusion and works backwards, but you're not supposed to say that out loud. be gone with you 'movendi'. we need you now less than ever. share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 12:51 pm 0 comments links to this post thursday, 26 march 2020 the corona-vultures circle dr farsilinos and colleagues have been updating their working paper on smoking, vaping and coronavirus. the evidence for either activity increasing covid-19 risk remains virtually nonexistent. smoking and hospitalization for covid-19. update, 1 more study added to the analysis, results remain the same (and are even stronger). remarkable consistency in all studies, very low prevalence of current smoking among hospitalized covid-19 cases in china.https://t.co/rkbjsjc6er — k. farsalinos (@farsalinosk) march 26, 2020 not that this has stopped the pretend 'public health' lobby muscling in on a genuine public health problem. the mayor of new york has been urged to ban tobacco and e-cigarette sales, and south africa has just announced that it will effectively ban the sale of tobacco and alcohol during its 21 day lockdown. in the alice in wonderland world of tobacco control, the myth about smoking increasing covid-19 risk has become an established fact. cherry-picking the one study that suits their purposes and ignoring the rest, they have come to the usual conclusion: they need more taxpayer cash: the role of smoking in the contraction, transmission and mortality rate of covid-19 should be given research attention, and countries should allocate resources to health stimulus packages, scientific research, and actions to further reduce smoking rates. the corona-vultures are circling. most 'public health' professionals wouldn't know one end of a microscope from the other. they are all about politics and lifestyle regulation and are therefore useless in a pandemic, but they can smell authoritarianism in the air and are keen to piggy-back it with their usual obsessions. take this nit-wit, for example. terrifyingly, he is the who's external relations officer. speculating wildly, he links to a daily mail article as supporting evidence: nearly 40% of americans hospitalized for #covid19 are between ages 20 and 54. #vaping may be driving the rise in young people hospitalized for #coronavirus. https://t.co/rdrproueru pic.twitter.com/dagnqtbgim — dr alexey kulikov (@kulikovuniatf) march 21, 2020 meanwhile in britain, greg fell, sheffield's low iq public health director, is hopeful that covid-19 will speed up the 'endgame' of total prohibition. but whilst we are implementing emergency legislation why not go really far and ban tobacco sales we all know this is the most potent intervention to reduce prevalence so whilst we are rightly implementing deeply restrictive isolation and distancing measures to minimise harm 2/ — greg fell ffph (@felly500) march 20, 2020 today i read about an anonymous group that has just been set up under the name lower the baseline. its website address was registered a few days ago but it has already got some media attention for an open letter which appears not to have been published anywhere. their solution to covid-19? minimum pricing for alcohol and a lower speed limit. expect much more of this. the authoritarian nightmare in which we are temporarily living is utopia for some. share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 12:58 pm 0 comments links to this post wednesday, 25 march 2020 vaping, smoking and coronavirus - the facts never letting a good crisis go to waste, a few prohibitionists have been exploiting people's fear of coronavirus to clamp down on vaping and smoking. the evidence that smoking increases the risk of dying from this disease is very weak - if anything, smokers seem to be have been under-represented in the coronavirus death toll in china (see here, here and here). the evidence against vaping is simply nonexistent; no studies have yet included data on vaping. nevertheless... on the @todayshow, @jeromeadamsmd is pushing baseless propaganda regarding youth prevalence of #covid19 and its relationship to vaping. "there are theories that it could be because we know we have a higher proportion of people in the u.s. and also in italy who vape." what?!? pic.twitter.com/m9ayw9zxno — paul blair (@gopaulblair) march 23, 2020 and... albany — doctors and medical professionals think forcing new yorkers to kick smoking will help battle coronavirus. they're urging gov. cuomo to issue an executive order banning the sale of all tobacco products, citing a study.https://t.co/yvtn7yumej — new york daily news (@nydailynews) march 23, 2020 in the usa, 'all tobacco products' includes e-cigarettes. roberto sussman and carmen escrig have produced a thorough and well referenced fact sheet looking at the issues of vaping and smoking in relation to covid-19. with permission, i am publishing an edited version of it here... summary why this document? the spread of the sars-cov-2 pandemic provides fertile ground for spreading misinformation on vaping. vapers must be equipped with solid information and data to counterargue. on smoking. the relation between smoking and the progression to severe conditions of covid-19 is still uncertain, though identified vulnerability conditions for this progression (cardiovascular and respiratory disease, diabetes) in mostly senior patients are strongly correlated with long term harms from smoking. on vaping. there is no evidence that vaping (intrinsically) increases the risk of infection or progression to severe condition of covid-19. when evaluating risks to vapers it is necessary to consider that most are ex-smokers or still smokers. vapers with a long previous smoking history could exhibit conditions seen in vulnerable patients. however, this would not be an effect of vaping but of previous smoking. since completely switching from smoking to vaping improves cardiovascular and respiratory conditions, smokers who switch to vaping are expected to have a better prognosis if infected by sars-cov-2 on propylene glycol (pg) as disinfectant. because of its hygroscopic nature pg vapor (not droplets) can act as environmental disinfectant wiping out pathogens under specific physical conditions. however, there is no evidence on whether this effect will work on sars-cov-2 and in the context of vaping. on environmental vapor. while there are no reported and verified cases of contagion, the saliva droplets carrying sars-cov-2 virus are much heavier than the rapidly moving volatile droplets of exhaled vapor. therefore, vapor exhaled by an infected vaper is likely to spread as much viruses as in normal respiration in the personal breathing zone, far less and far closer than spreading by sneezing or coughing. recommendations. the precautions to prevent contagion from virus carried by e-cigarette vapor are the same “social distancing” measures recommended to all the population including non-vapers: avoid physical contact and proximity to others. for vapers specifically: vape with low powered devices, avoid vaping in public indoor spaces and in outdoor spaces vape at least 2 mts away from others. the misinformation pandemic unfortunately, the spread of the sars-cov-2 pandemic follows a long pandemic of serious misinformation on vaping. one of the main spearheads of this misinformation is undoubtedly professor stanton glantz from the university of california at san francisco. in his professional blog [1] professor glantz squarely puts vaping and smoking on equal footing as serious risk factors for progression to covid-19. specifically, glantz justifies this assessment by stating that: the recent excellent summary of the evidence on the pulmonary effects of e-cigarettes reported multiple ways that e-cigarettes impair lungs’ ability to fight off infections this statement is followed by a list of adverse effects of vaping on respiratory infections, all taken from studies examined in the review by gotts et al [2] (the “excellent summary”). while recognizing that vapers’ risk of viral infections has not been studied much, the popular journal scientific american [3] has cited glantz and has also recycled some of the results reported by gotts et al. the review by gotts et al, which glantz and scientific american take as source, is extremely superficial, biased and selective. it cites uncritically only studies reporting adverse effects, all of which are either acute effects without clinical relevance or cross sectional studies based on small samples of vapers in which the huge confounding effect of previous smoking history was not properly handled (see a critique of such studies in a much more balanced and extensive review of respiratory effects [4] of vaping). moreover, gotts et al (and glantz quoting them) interpret the results in a very selective manner. a representative example of their modus operandi is furnished by their assessment of the results obtained by one of the revised studies by saudt et al [5]. from glantz’s exact quote of gotts et al we have healthy non-smokers were exposed to e-cigarette aerosol, and bronchoalveolar lavage was obtained to study alveolar macrophages. the expression of more than 60 genes was altered in e-cigarette users’ alveolar macrophages two hours after just 20 puffs, including genes involved in inflammation. curiously, gotts et al and glantz omit mentioning that the effects examined in [5] were acute and that the same study reports that “no significant changes in clinical parameters were observed”. gotts et al and glantz quoting them also omit mentioning evidence pointing in the opposite direction: as reported by several studies reviewed in [3] the usage of e-cigarettes actually reduces the presence of pathogens and respiratory infections. a significant decrease of respiratory infections in e-cigarette users has also been reported in a large scope randomized controlled trial researching smoking cessation [6], a result based on a 12 months long clinical observation on a large sample of subjects. this result (and similar results in other randomized trials reviewed in [7]) are real life observational results that are more relevant to assess the immune response of vapers in the context of covid-19 than the adverse acute effects in idealized lab studies reported uncritically by gotts et al in [2] and recycled by glantz and scientific american. professor glantz is perhaps the most vocal spearhead, but he is far from being the only academic in the vast usa sourced anti-vaping activism, which is now presenting the relation of vaping and the sars-cov-2 pandemic through the grossly biased assessments from reviews like that of gotts et al, conflating carelessly the risks of vaping and smoking and ignoring all contrary or critical evidence. it is very unfortunate that mainstream academia, politicians and the media in the usa is predominantly fed by this constant flow of misinformation, as can be seen in statements by the major of new york city, bill de blasio [8], and by various media outlets [9]. covid-19 and smokers a good reference reviewing the available evidence on the relation between smoking, vaping and covid- 19 is the article written by farsalinos, barbouni and nyaura [10] (see also the professional blog entry of farsalinos [11]). the authors conclude after reviewing the data from five studies on patients infected by sars-cov-2 that the relation between smoking cigarettes and the severity of covid-19 in infected chinese patients is uncertain and even protective (bearing in mind that 52.1% of chinese men smoke whereas only 2.7% of women do). in his blog entry farsalinos examines in more detail the data from the study with the largest sample [12]: 1096 patients, of whom only 12.5% were current smokers (1.9% ex- smokers), which (as in the other studies) is a much lesser proportion than that found among the population bearing in mind that 58.1% of the sample were men and practically 100% older than 15 years (to be representative of the population we would expect the proportion of smokers in the sample to be 29%). of the 1096 patients: • 926 were reported without severe affectation (11.8% smokers) • 173 were reported with severe affectation (11.8% smokers) • 67 were reported in critical situation with intensive care, mechanical ventilation or dead (25.8% smokers) these numbers indicate a higher proportion of smokers among those with severe outcomes, but still lower than in the general chinese population given the high smoking prevalence among chinese men. evidently, smoking contributes to identified vulnerability conditions, such as cardiovascular ailments, diabetes or chronic lung disease, moreover, there seems to be no evidence that smoking in itself is the dominant or determinant factor. the effect of covid-19 on vapers contrary to statements by misinformation sources, there is simply no evidence suggesting that vaping has the capacity to affect negatively the immune body response in order to produce the development and progression of the diseases caused by sars-cov-2 on e-cigarette users. to better understand the possibility of a progression of infection leading to covid-19 in vapers it is necessary to bear in mind that the overwhelming majority are smokers or ex-smokers, some of them dragging long histories of previous smoking. this smoking history is very likely an important factor that could easily render as vulnerable a vaper who (say) smoked 20 or 30 years, even if he/she has been (typically) 2-3 years vaping without smoking. such vaper would be more susceptible to the complicated etiology of covid-19. however, this is not an intrinsic effect of vaping, but of smoking, and thus it does not justify casting vaping as a risk factor on equal footing as smoking (as inferred from misleading statements by glantz that have been recycled by the media). in fact, bearing in mind that smokers improve their biomarkers and their respiratory and cardiovascular conditions when they switch completely to vaping, it is highly plausible (as farsalinos argues [11]) that they would have a better prognosis under possible progression of covid-19 if they no longer smoke, even if they have smoked before. this effect would be even more pronounced if it turns out that smoking is a determinant factor in the evolution to severe complications from covid-19. it is also important to stress that there cannot be contagion of sars-cov-2 virus through e-liquids containing the virus. pathogens have been detected on e-liquids, however it would be practically impossible to become infected by vaping e-liquids containing the sars-cov-2 virus or any other pathogen. the e- liquid becomes heated at 180-220 degrees celsius. no pathogen can survive these temperatures (they stop functioning as the macromolecules making them up fragment). exhaled vapor as a possible path to spread sars-co-v2 a worrying theoretically possible path of infection of the sars-co-v2 virus is by breathing environmental aerosol (i.e. “vapor”) exhaled by vapers, a diluted and volatile aerosol composed almost entirely of droplets made of pg, glycerol (vg) and humectants (the visible “cloud”) suspended in a gaseous medium made of the same compounds (nicotine and aldehydes and metals are present at trace levels). can this exhaled vapor spread sars-cov-2? as stated by rosanna o’connor, director of the tobacco alcohol and drugs of public health england [19], and professor neil benowitz of the university of california at san francisco [20], currently there is no evidence of contagion through vapor exhaled by users of e-cigarettes. as a contrast, the scottish microbiologist tom mclean, chief scientific advisor of the nanotera group, claims [21] that exhaled vapor can spread the virus, even comparing exposure to exhaled vapor as “being spit in your face”. as we show below, mclean’s statements are completely mistaken and contradict basic principles of aerosol physics. it is known that sars-cov-2 contagion occurs by exposure to the virus in airborne saliva droplets exhaled in the breath of an infected person (at short distances) and, in a more efficient form (at larger distances) when the infected person sneezes or coughs [22]. when using an e-cigarette the exhaled vapor is a tidal flow that is bound to carry into the environment any buoyant material (possibly including pathogens) contained in the respiratory system of the vaper, just as it happens when breathing, but vaping in itself would be a distinct unique mechanism (it is impossible vape and sneeze or cough at the same time). as opposed to normal breathing, coughing or sneezing, the airborne saliva droplets carried by exhaled vapor would be suspended on a different chemical medium of pg/vg droplets and vapor (other compounds like nicotine and aldehydes are found at trace levels). while it is impossible to rule out the action of a disinfectant effect as reported in [14,15,16] through the condensation of pg vapor on the saliva droplets carrying the sars-cov-2 virus, this remains a highly unlikely and merely speculative and theoretical possibility without any empirical support. the most important criterion to examine the possibility of sars- cov-2 virus transmission though the exhaled vapor is the dynamics of possible saliva droplets dragged by this flow. the exhaled vapor is a diluted aerosol made almost exclusively of very light and rapidly moving pg/vg droplets (the “particles”) with mean diameters of about 100-300 nm [23,24] (one nanometer nm is 1 billionth of a meter). these droplets evaporate very rapidly (20 seconds per puff) and the whole gaseous system is supersaturated and disperses completely in less than 2-3 minutes. some of these droplets will impact walls or fall to the ground before evaporating. chamber and laboratory experiments reveal that most droplets are not transported large distances: at 1.5 meters from the exhalation source they are barely detectable, with their particle number density almost indistinguishable from background values for all particle sizes (submicron, pm2.5 and pm10). for low powered devices this distance is likely to be less than 1 mts. the spreading of the virus can be understood in terms of the dynamics of an airborne biological aerosol made by an ensemble of “viral particles” of about 100 nm typically contained in saliva droplets that are large particles of 5-10 microns (one micron is 1000 nm) of diameter [22,25]. the exhalation of normal breath under sedentary conditions is a low velocity nearly laminar air flow, so it will spread few droplets at short distances, whereas sneezing is a high speed explosive turbulent flow that can spread up to millions of droplets at larger distances (coughing can spread thousands of droplets). the saliva droplets transporting the virus can (in principle) remain buoyant for long time, though in real life conditions they are very susceptible to environmental conditions: temperature, relative humidity, solar radiation, evaporation, fall by gravity and impactation in surfaces [22,25]. although such droplets have been reported traveling up to 2.5 meters away (probably from somebody sneezing), this distance is a maximal value so that under normal environmental conditions the average distance traveled before evaporation or impactation should be much less, probably around 1.5 meters (even less in dry and hot environments) and even less (the breathing zone of about 30 cm) when exhaled by normal breathing. the exhalation flow associated with vaping is in terms of velocities an intermediate flow between the two extremes given by the near laminar flow of normal breathing and the fast turbulent flow of sneezing or coughing [22]. however, the saliva droplets carrying up to thousands of viral particles behave dynamically different from the rapidly evaporating pg/vg droplets in the e-cigarette aerosol: they stay buoyant for much longer times and are also much heavier and thus present a lot of inertial dragging to the exhaled flow. therefore, it is unlikely that the heavy saliva droplets dragged by the exhaled flow of an infected vaper would be transported as far as distances of 1.5 meters where the much lighter pg/vg droplets are barely detectable (their particle number density almost blends with environmental control values [23,24]). for low powered devices the exhaled vapor flow is slower and closer to being laminar, not much different from that of the normal respiratory flow, hence the distance reached by saliva droplets dragged by the exhalation should be even less, likely comparable to the personal breathing zone (30 cm). thus, rosanna o’connor from phe and professor benowitz are right: there is no special risk of contagion of sars-cov-2 from exhaled vapor that would require more strict measures with respect to non-vapers. the contagion risk from exhaled vapor cannot be compared to that from spreading the virus through sneezing or coughing, as claimed by tom mclean. it is reasonable to expect that, depending on the power of the vaping device, exhaled vapor from an infected vaper would spread roughly the same amount of saliva droplets containing sars-cov-2 virus as the normal respiration of a non-vaper in his/her breathing zone. keeping the same 1.5 to 2 meters distance recommended for non-vapers should prevent any contagion from a vaper. [1] s.a. glantz, reduce your risk of serious lung disease caused by corona virus by quitting smoking and vaping. https://tobacco.ucsf.edu/reduce-your-risk-serious-lung-disease-caused-corona-virus-quitting- smoking-and-vaping [2] j.e. gotts et al. what are the respiratory effects of e-cigarettes? bmj 2019;366:l5275. doi: https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.l5275 [3] tanya lewis. smoking or vaping may increase the risk of severe coronavirus infection. scientific american. 17 march. https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/smoking-or-vaping-may-increase-the- risk-of-a-severe-coronavirus-infection1/ [4] polosa r, o’leary r, tashkin d, emma r & caruso m (2019) the effect of e-cigarette aerosol emissions on respiratory health: a narrative review, expert review of respiratory medicine. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17476348.2019.1649146 [5] staudt mr, salit j, kaner rj, hollmann c, crystal rg altered lung biology of healthy never smokers following acute inhalation of e-cigarettes. respir res2018;19:78. doi:10.1186/s12931-018- 0778-z pmid:29754582 [6] peter hajek, ph.d., anna phillips-waller, b.sc., dunja przulj, et al. a randomized trial of e-cigarettes versus nicotine replacement therapy. n engl j med 2019; 380:629-637 doi: 10.1056/nejmoa1808779 https://bit.ly/2rwdcd0 [7] hartmann-boyce j, mcrobbie h, bullen c, begh r, stead l, hajek p. electronic cigarettes for smoking cessation. cochrane database of systematic reviews 2016 issue 9. art. no.: cd010216. doi: 10.1002/14651858.cd010216. http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/cochranelibrary/search/ [8] https://www.reuters.com/article/us-health-coronavirus-usa-vaping/smoking-or-vaping-increases- risks-for-those-with-coronavirus-nyc-mayor-iduskbn20v0z0 [9] https://nypost.com/2020/03/21/vaping-may-be-cause-of-coronavirus-cases-in-young-americans- experts-say/ https://www.dailymail.co.uk/health/article-8136069/experts-question-vaping-drives-rise-young- americans-covid-19.html http://www.msnbc.com/morning-joe/vaping-one-the-best-ways-trash-your-lungs-and-maybe-die-if-you-catch-coronavirus [10] k. farsalinos, a. barbolini, r. nyaura. smoking,vaping and hospitalization for covid-19. queios id: z69oba.2. https://doi.org/10.32388/z69o8a.2 [11] k farsalinos. smoking, vaping and the coronavirus (covid-19) epidemic: rumors vs. evidence http://www.ecigarette-research.org/research/index.php/whats-new/2020/278-corona [12]wei-jie guan et al. clinical characteristics of coronavirus disease in china. n engl j med 2020; https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmoa2002032 [13] https://twitter.com/i/topics/news/e137920411?cn=zmxleglibgvfcmvjc18y&refsrc=email [14] robertson o.h., bigg e., puck t.t., miller b.f., technical assistance of elizabeth a. appell. the bactericidal action of propylene glycol vapor on microorganisms suspended in air: i. j exp med. 1942 jun 1;75(6):593-610. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19871209 [15] puck t.t., robertson o.h., lemon h.m., the bactericidal action of propylene glycol vapor on microorganisms suspended in air: ii, the influence of various factors on the activity of the vapor. j exp med. 1943 nov 1;78(5):387-406. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19871337 [16] t.t. puck, the mechanism of aerial disinfection by glycols and other chemical agents. i demonstration that the germicidal action occurs through the agency of the vapor phase. j exp med. 1947 may 31; 85(6): 729–739. doi: 10.1084/jem.85.6.729 [17] czogala, j., goniewicz, m., fidelus, b., zielinska-danch, w., travers, m. and sobczak, a. (2013) “secondhand exposure to vapors from electronic cigarettes”. nicotine tob res (11 december 2011 (epub ahead of print). doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntt203 [18] j liu, q liang, m j. oldham, a a. rostami, k a. wagner, g gillman, p patel, r savioz, m sarkar. “determination of selected chemical levels in room air and on surfaces after the use of cartridge- and tank-based e-vapor products or conventional cigarettes”. int. j. environ. res. public health 2017, 14, 969; doi:10.3390/ijerph14090969 [19] coronavirus and vaping: can e-cigarette clouds pass on covid-19? https://www.standard.co.uk/news/world/vaping-coronavirus-ecigarette-cloud-expert-advice- a4386996.html [20] coronavirus will not spread in vape clouds unless the e-cigarette user coughs when they exhale, scientists claim. daily mail. march 23rd 2020. https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article- 8143385/coronavirus-not-spread-vape-clouds-unless-e-cigarette-user-coughs.html [21] ‘someone spitting in your face’: coronavirus: scottish expert warns of vaping dangers. glasgow evening times. 16th march 2020. https://www.glasgowtimes.co.uk/news/18309649.someone-spitting- face-coronavirus-scottish-expert-warns-vaping-dangers/ [22] j.m. macher, j. douwes, b. prezant and t. reponen, bioaerosols. chapter 12. aerosols handbook, measurement, dosimetry and health effects. second edition. edited by l.s. ruzer and n.h. harley. crc press. taylos & francis group, boca raton, london, new york 2013 [23] tongke zhao, c nguyen, che-hsuan lin, h r. middlekauff, k peters, r moheimani, qiuju guo & yifang zhu (2017). characteristics of secondhand electronic cigarette aerosols from active human use, aerosol science and technology, 51:12, 1368-1376, doi: 10.1080/02786826.2017.1355548 [24] d martuzevicius, t prasauskas, a setyan, g o’connell, x cahours, r julien, s colard, characterization of the spatial and temporal dispersion differences between exhaled e- cigarette mist and cigarette smoke, nicotine & t obacco research, 2018, 1–7 doi:10.1093/ntr/nty121 [25] van doremalen n. et al. aerosol and surface stability of sars-cov-2 as compared with sars-cov-1. the new england journal of medicine. https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmc2004973?query=toc share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 10:04 am 0 comments links to this post friday, 20 march 2020 avoid like the plague the shelves are emptying around britain as the nation prepares to self-isolate, but some products won't sell under any circumstances. via @oliviapienaar stay well and make sure your elderly friends and relatives stay home. update and another one... even in a time of panic buying, nobody wants new recipe ribena. @cjsnowdon pic.twitter.com/8tuuwogpdw — oliver johnson (@bristoliver) march 22, 2020 share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 1:09 pm 0 comments links to this post friday, 13 march 2020 are there any libertarians in a pandemic? the kind of people who say ‘if you like freedom so much, why don’t you move to somalia?’ think that libertarians have been “owned” by the coronavirus. if you oppose the nanny state but want to contain the epidemic, you are apparently some kind of hypocrite. how can libertarians ever support mandatory quarantine and nationwide lockdowns? quite easily, as it happens. i can’t speak for all libertarians (who can?) but i see libertarianism as applied economics. the government should leave businesses alone unless there are demonstrable market failures and it should leave people alone unless they are doing direct harm to others. in case it is not obvious, infecting somebody with a potentially fatal virus counts as direct harm to others. let us assume that coronavirus is far more dangerous than seasonal flu and has the potential to kill millions. if so, it is a classic public health problem. it carries serious negative externalities and can only be dealt with by collective action. there are things you can do as an individual to reduce your risk - wash your hands, cancel non-urgent appointments, etc. - but you will still be at risk. libertarians want to keep coercion to the minimum. we would prefer mass vaccination, but there is no vaccine yet. we would prefer voluntary self-isolation, but we cannot rely on people doing this even if they are aware that they have the virus. lock-downs and quarantines are economically damaging and illiberal. they might be a last resort, but they should not be off the table. they do not fall under the umbrella of ‘nanny state’ because they are designed to protect other people from you and you from other people, not you from yourself. most of what passes for ‘public health’ policy these days has nothing to do with public health in its true sense. factories pumping smoke into a congested city and travellers arriving at heathrow with coronavirus pose a clear risk of harm to others that can justify some degree of coercion. it is not the scale of the risk nor the number of people affected that turns a health problem into a public health problem. it is the lack of consent from those who are at risk and their inability to escape danger without other people taking action. by contrast, if i eat too much, it won’t make you fat. if i smoke or drink too much, it might create a private health problem for me, but it doesn’t create a public health problem for society. these are not issues for the collective and they do not require collective action to address them, led alone coercion from the state. my body, my rules. personal lifestyle habits have been redefined as ‘public health’ issues in recent decades because it gives the impression that government action is appropriate when it is not. it is a rhetorical trick. but, as we are seeing now, genuine public health crises can still arise, even in rich countries. when they do, our response should be proportionate. we want to keep restrictions on liberty to a minimum and we do not want to damage the economy, but we may have to accept a bit of both - temporarily - if we are to protect ourselves. this is not the nanny state. it is the prevention of harm from an external threat. [reposted from the telegraph] share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 9:30 am 0 comments links to this post thursday, 12 march 2020 scientists at work research in progress with the coronavirus now officially a pandemic, it's all hands to the pumps for public health groups who are desperately trying to warn people about... salt. the royal society for public health has been talking about little else - for it is salt awareness week. action on sugar/salt did their usual thing of reporting the amount of salt that is 'hiding' in various products and declaring their findings to be 'shocking'. do you realise how much salt is hiding in food? a truly shocking amount - salt is in bread, cheese, processed meat, cakes, even breakfast cereal. little wonder we have a salt-related health crisis hiding right in front of our noses @actiononsalt #saltawarenessweek #hideandseek pic.twitter.com/xbx6j8xh7y — rsph (@r_s_p_h) march 10, 2020 the george institute did likewise... find out what’s hiding in your favourite veggie snacks! new research by @georgeinstitute, @heartfoundation and @vichealth finds that veggie savoury snack options hide alarming amounts of salt that could be damaging to heath. read more: https://t.co/8dnhzqhaf5#unpackthesalt🧂🧂🧂 pic.twitter.com/iukwkoynav — the george institute for global health (@georgeinstitute) march 10, 2020 the photo in this tweet shows all too clearly how mundane this 'research' is. they buy a load of food products and look at the labels. when the salt content is shown on the packaging, it's not really 'hidden', is it? another study crossed my radar yesterday to illustrate the feeble nature of modern, deskbound 'public health' research. it looked at the amount of money 'big food' gives to various academic institutes. it doesn't show that the donations influenced results, not does it show whether these institutions produced better or worse research than those which remain 'independent'. it doesn't even show how much money is involved because the whole thing is based on a google search. this study has several limitations. our search missed donations that were not highly publicized, those on websites that had deleted older information or not disclosed such information, or donations from shell foundations and companies. another limitation of our study is that the data on the growth in donations over time may be attributable to secular trends in internet use, recent public pressure to increase transparency in industry donation practices, or removal of older donation information from websites. finally, it is possible that our google search terms produced biased search results that may have led us to miss relevant websites. for example, we used search terms such as “[company name] [synonyms for donation]” but not “[company name] endowed chair” or “[company name] hospital”, meaning our search procedures likely produced an incomplete list of the food industry’s relationships with academic programs. one for the nobel committee to consider this year. share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 12:22 pm 0 comments links to this post wednesday, 11 march 2020 brexiting the nanny state the splendid brian monteith has set up a new website called brexit watch to keep you in the loop about the opportunities and risks of britain leaving the eu. i’ve written an article for it, looking at what the government can do in the area of smoking, vaping and tobacco harm reduction. have a read. share tweet posted by christopher snowdon at 2:09 pm 0 comments links to this post older posts home subscribe to: posts (atom) latest iea publication tweets by cjsnowdon visit my website christophersnowdon.com blogs of note guido fawkes ‘interim’ leader ed davy’s tenure longer than swinson’s 3 hours ago samizdata this chicken has more freedom that anyone in britain 3 hours ago tim worstall an interesting use of the word consensus 4 hours ago left foot forward john lewis call centres remain open despite coronavirus 5 hours ago catallaxy files a wonton insult 5 hours ago head rambles ups and downs 5 hours ago science media centre expert reaction to three papers on impact of covid-19 infection on cardiovascular system 5 hours ago frank davis transmissibility 8 hours ago institute of economic affairs covid-19 will have long-term impacts on mental health. are we prepared for that? 9 hours ago ambush predator plus ca change plus c'est la meme chose 10 hours ago mark wadsworth every day feels saturday; every evening feels like friday. 10 hours ago conscienhealth bright red lines: fact, speculation, and misinformation 10 hours ago longrider the thin veneer 10 hours ago adam smith institute you get what you pay for - well, you should at least 13 hours ago underdogs bite upwards myths and facts and tinfoil hats 14 hours ago david thompson friday ephemera 20 hours ago smoking bandits smoking in new york 1 day ago taking liberties forest supporters in the news 1 day ago tobakko kontrol covid-19 and smoking: resources, research and news 1 day ago the devil's kitchen steve baker: still decent, still libertarian 2 days ago peter hitchens an interview on the coronavirus with talk radio 3 days ago the risk-monger covid-19: a failure in risk management 1 week ago points fiction points: elizabeth kadetsky 1 week ago the pub curmudgeon a case of corona 1 week ago offsetting behaviour ird and the oia 2 weeks ago anti-thr lies new glover-phillips paper: “potential effects of using non-combustible tobacco and nicotine products during pregnancy: a systematic review” 3 weeks ago coffee house in congo, the church is doing the government’s business 3 weeks ago the counterfactual new nicotine science and policy q & a published 5 weeks ago the view from cullingworth five ways to make our housing problems worse (why neil o'brien is dangerously wrong about housing) 1 month ago the science bit it’s brexit day 1 month ago the rest of the story cdc is concealing and suppressing information on youth marijuana vaping to over-hype harms of e-cigarettes 2 months ago thinking to some purpose drug policy and scientific morality 2 months ago dick puddlecote humanity is no longer a priority for the nhs 3 months ago facts do matter long read: the “evils” of nicotine, juul and the youth ‘epidemic’ 4 months ago tobacco truth opportunity for the world-wide research community: spend 15 minutes to counter falsified research in the journal of the american heart association 4 months ago gibney on food pooh poohing the obesity microbiome theory 7 months ago blog archive ▼ 2020 (59) ▼ march (15) corona-vultures in the temperance movement the corona-vultures circle vaping, smoking and coronavirus - the facts avoid like the plague are there any libertarians in a pandemic? scientists at work brexiting the nanny state 'public health' conference puts public health at r... anti-smoking loonies banning menthol cigarettes doesn't work bbc regurgitates a press release from the temperan... another minimum pricing prophecy fails last orders with andrew doyle minimum pricing travels back in time (again) minimum pricing begins in wales ► february (20) ► january (24) ► 2019 (183) ► december (13) ► november (12) ► october (16) ► september (20) ► august (13) ► july (13) ► june (14) ► may (16) ► april (16) ► march (19) ► february (12) ► january (19) ► 2018 (204) ► december (16) ► november (17) ► october (13) ► september (15) ► august (16) ► july (17) ► june (17) ► may (28) ► april (14) ► march (18) ► february (14) ► january (19) ► 2017 (186) ► december (15) ► november (17) ► october (17) ► september (12) ► august (14) ► july (16) ► june (17) ► may (18) ► april (12) ► march (16) ► february (17) ► january (15) ► 2016 (215) ► december (13) ► november (15) ► october (17) ► september (20) ► august (18) ► july (15) ► june (17) ► may (18) ► april (15) ► march (23) ► february (22) ► january (22) ► 2015 (274) ► december (17) ► november (18) ► october (25) ► september (15) ► august (25) ► july (25) ► june (25) ► may (25) ► april (26) ► march (25) ► february (29) ► january (19) ► 2014 (265) ► december (23) ► november (22) ► october (33) ► september (17) ► august (14) ► july (17) ► june (27) ► may (25) ► april (19) ► march (21) ► february (25) ► january (22) ► 2013 (236) ► december (24) ► november (21) ► october (18) ► september (21) ► august (26) ► july (16) ► june (13) ► may (17) ► april (20) ► march (22) ► february (17) ► january (21) ► 2012 (230) ► december (15) ► november (12) ► october (21) ► september (26) ► august (20) ► july (16) ► june (18) ► may (19) ► april (20) ► march (19) ► february (20) ► january (24) ► 2011 (203) ► december (25) ► november (22) ► october (17) ► september (20) ► august (13) ► july (16) ► june (12) ► may (13) ► april (10) ► march (20) ► february (17) ► january (18) ► 2010 (227) ► december (17) ► november (18) ► october (15) ► september (14) ► august (23) ► july (16) ► june (22) ► may (24) ► april (17) ► march (21) ► february (21) ► january (19) ► 2009 (80) ► december (16) ► november (16) ► october (18) ► september (30) killjoys - free download the 'public health' gravy train the 'public health' gravy train. dig deep, taxpayers! the art of suppression reason review spiked review free society review buy from amazon.com or amazon uk or on kindle velvet glove, iron fist "magnificent" "a damn good read" "simply stunning" "fascinating" "solidly researched, interesting and only occasionally strident" "this book should be in every library" amazon uk & worldwide or kindle the spirit level delusion "a devastating critique" "excellent" "will make you laugh out loud" "strongly recommended" "this year's most important publication" "an excellent critique" amazon uk and worldwide or kindle about me christopher snowdon united kingdom writer and researcher at the institute of economic affairs. blogging in a personal capacity. author of killjoys (2017), selfishness, greed and capitalism (2015), the art of suppression (2011), the spirit level delusion (2010) and velvet glove, iron fist (2009). view my complete profile "of all tyrannies, a tyranny exercised for the good of its victims may be the most oppressive. it may be better to live under robber barons than under omnipotent moral busybodies. the robber baron's cruelty may sometimes sleep, his cupidity may at some point be satiated; but those who torment us for our own good will torment us without end, for they do so with the approval of their own conscience." — c. s. lewis the hierarchy of disagreement the spirit level delusion now available as an ebook the spirit level delusion - swedish translation feedjit feedjit live blog stats how libertarians are created random quote: search this blog picture window theme. powered by blogger.