verso logo about books authors blog events login sign in email password forgot your password? don't have an account? sign up here for discounts and quicker purchasing. reading in a time of coronavirus: 80% off all ebooks and 40% off all print books 5 days left verso books 19 march 2020 comments free quarantine ebooks reading in a time of coronavirus: download your free ebooks until april 2. the current global crisis has revealed (once again) that neoliberal capitalism is not sustainable. but what lies in its wake? what might a post-capitalist world look like? in this time of quarantine, we have 80% off all our ebooks, and 40% off all our print books. see here for more detail. you can also download all the books below, for free, until april 2. click on the ebook tab below to download your free book. a deep dive into joe biden’s history and the origins of his political values. a planet to win explores the political potential and concrete first steps of a green new deal. it calls for dismantling the fossil fuel industry, building beautiful landscapes of renewable energy, and guaranteeing climate-friendly work, no-carbon housing, and free public transit. and it shows how a green new deal in the united states can strengthen climate justice movements worldwide. what is the green new deal and how can we afford it? to protect the future of life on earth, we need to do more than just reimagine the economy—we have to change everything. one of the seminal thinkers of the program that helped ignite the us green new deal campaign, ann pettifor explains how we can afford what we can do, and what we need to do, before it is too late. an exhilarating exploration into the utopias and dystopias that could develop from present society. neoliberalism is fracturing, but what will emerge in its wake? the global political, ecological, economic, and social breakdown has destroyed faith that neoliberal capitalism is beneficial to the majority. nancy fraser explores how this faith was built through the late twentieth century by balancing two central tenets: recognition (who deserves rights) and distribution (who deserves income). when these begin to fray, new forms of outsider populist politics emerge on the left and the right. taking as its inspiration the new wave of feminist militancy that has erupted globally, this manifesto makes a simple but powerful case: feminism shouldn’t start—or stop—with the drive to have women represented at the top of their professions. it must focus on those at the bottom, and fight for the world they deserve. and that means targeting capitalism. feminism must be anticapitalist, eco-socialist and antiracist. tagged versoreadinglists related books feminism for the 99% by cinzia arruzza, tithi bhattacharya, et al. the old is dying and the new cannot be born by nancy fraser yesterday’s man by branko marcetic a planet to win by kate aronoff, alyssa battistoni, et al. the case for the green new deal by ann pettifor four futures by peter frase verso logo aboutbooksauthorsblogevents terms and conditionsfrequently asked questions sign up for our email newsletter