× features install pricing demo docs forum sponsors menu latest version (sep 29): 0.9.8-26 features install pricing demo docs forum sponsors simple & clever hosting control panel it has the fine touch of softaculous auto installer that is able to install more than 439 apps with one click, we hope it would be appreciated with our not so experienced users and in general will make vesta even simpler to use and to build a web site. to get latest version you just need to get to "updates" tab and update vesta core package to release 22. it is completely safe and will perform update automatically. enjoy latest vesta! quick launch on aws get your hosting server done easily on aws ec2 with vesta control panel aws vesta intagration made by our partner fusionworks previous slide◀︎ next slide▶︎ 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 fast web interface is extremely fast and its even faster with keyboard shortcuts requires: low resources and still runs blazing fast ram 512 mb hdd 20 gb cpu 1 ghz sites powered by vesta work faster too vesta uses latest and greatest versions and depending on avaiable system resources it delivers optimized configuration for low/medium/high ram server types. nginx+phpfpm and advanced caching are available at basic install can 512mb vps handle 8k visitors per day? yep! read performance review 5k-8k visitors per day secure firewall built in firewall resolves all common issues. it’s packed with enterprise-class features. for example it comes with smart filters for various services (apache, exim, ssh, etc) in order to ban any host ip address that makes too many login attempts. linux passwords our password implementation relies on the linux pam authentication mechanism which employs sha512 hashing algorithm, to provide unique and secure passwords. you can always inspect the code and make sure it's backdoor free and has no spying modules. open source means you can modify the code yourself if you need to. or hire a freelancer that works with vestacp, there are plenty of them already. checkout source code: http://github.com internationalization web interface is adapted to 26 languages and regions around the world. vesta has trully become an essential hosting solution worldwide english french german dutch danish norwegian finnish swedish spanish portuguese brazilian portuguese italian greek chinese taiwanese mandarin japanese vietnamese indonesian romanian bosnian bulgarian hungarian czech polish ukrainian russian georgian turkish arabic persian urdu korean thai serbian and in the end, the love you take is equal to the love you make vesta native interface is english أي الشعراء أشعر translated to arabic by orwah все туй копнение в духът все туй скиталчество из път на който не съзирам края. translated to bulgarian by kronz and loderx s ledine zelene, ranjen, gledao u vječna nebesa. translated to bosnian by rumi4acc 水面初平云脚低 translated to chinese by 浩浩 and kevin tloukl jsem na štěstí brány, jako jiní na ně tlukou translated to czech by sergey sorokoletov det gamle træ, o lad det staa indtil det døer af ælde translated to danish by michal skogemann es ziehen die brausenden wellen wohl nach dem stran translated to german by nevil verdoold ηλιος ο πρώτος, παραλλαγές πάνω σε μιαν αχτίδα translated to greek by cemendur hora tras hora, día tras día, entre el cielo y la tierra translated to spanish by omar gonzalez, maksim usmanov, huloza, estratos consulting and manuel valle در بادیه سوسماری با من راه می سپرد translated to persian by foad gh, yalda and ham3d on aamu. parvekkeen kaiteelta hyppää varpune translated to finnish by ohakala, rjuho and theel0ja les oiseaux intermittents les champs toujours là en fac translated to french by nhoway ment a fő utcán az alkonyatban, hegyek ballagtak balján, kísérték, translated to hungarian by kovács ákos and kőrösi zoltán rinduku terbang menembus penyap bayang translated to indonesian by azuya sempre caro mi fu quest'ermo colle, e questa siepe, che da tanta parte translated to italian by abio cagliero 古池 / 蛙飛び込む / 水の音 translated to japanese by flat mzeo tibatvisa, mzeo tibatvisa locvad muxlmoq’rili graals ševedrebi. translated to georgian by david machakhelidze alleen in mijn gedichten kan ik wonen translated to dutch by drmacfaulty, ricardo777 and daniwinter nu tak for alt, ifra vi var små og legte sammen i skog og lage' translated to norwegian by helgesverre prędzej kto wiatr w wór zamknie translated to polish by marek pikuła and michal slepko o zé pereira chegou de caravela e preguntou pro guarani da mata virgem translated to brazilian portuguese by diego hernandes nem os dias longos me separam da tua imagem translated to portuguese by diego hernandes vreme trece, vreme vine, toate-s vechi şi nouă toate translated to romanian by bbl and demlasjr солнца струганые дранки загораживают синь. translated to russian by zond80 and alexandr loskutov utal skicklighet men med förmåga lyfter du mig ur ledsnaden translated to swedish by e.c. westgren başım köpük köpük bulut, içim dışım deniz translated to turkish by özgür bozkurt and selim can caba 霜葉紅於二月花是古代風景 translated to taiwanese mandarin by peter dave and clark's computer ви знаєте, як липа шелестить у місячні весняні ночі? translated to ukrainian by colobocman and alexandr loskutov hôm nay trời nhẹ lên cao translated to vietnamese by phuong nguyen 오늘이 오늘이소서 매일이 오늘이소서 translated to korean by hoto-cocoa وہ اک گلدستہ ہے ہم بے خودوں کے طاق نسیاں کا .. .... translated to urdu by darkworks ช่อฟ้าก็เฟื้อยกลจะฟัดดลฟากทิฆัมพร translated to thai by thatphon05 sama vrba stoji nad morem na steni translated to serbian by dpeca monitoring & logging server stats usage load average memory bandwidth apache nginx exim mysql ftp ssh realtime server state cpu memory disk network web dns mail db monthly based vesta usage report: site logs and analytics access log error log analytics data bould in web site analytics systems that provide whole range of visitors information such as: unique visitors number of visits pages hits countries visits duration operating systems browsers get full list of features at webalizer and awstats sites webalizer http://www.webalizer.org awstats http://www.awstats.org backups out of the box you have powerful backup system integrated no data will be lost you can manage backups the way you want to. you can exclude some files or directories or specific account or even domain. backup scheme number of copies or backup frequency can be easily changed. by default you get 3 backups created by cron job at night. day before yesterday yesterday today external ftp server you can enable backup upload by ftp to external server actual server state web domains dns domains mail domains databases cron user directories cli interface like to work in terminal? vesta gives you full control at your fingertips. features web interface ar bs cn cz da de el en es fi fr hu id it ja nl no pl pt ro ru se tr tw ua vi ur ko th sr firewall iptables fail2ban dns named web nginx + apache nginx + php-fpm apache web scripting languages php monitoring tools monit webalizer awstats rrdtool mail spamassasinantispam solution clamavantivirus engine dovecotimap/pop3 server exim + roundcube mail server database mysql + phpmyadmin postgresql + phppgadmin ftp vsftpd proftpd backup cron api rhel / centos 5, 6, 7 debian 7, 8, 9 ubuntu 12 . 04 - 18 . 04 vesta is free install all core functionality listed above is free. we only sell additional comfort, that you can fully operate without. 100% core functionality free file manager sftp chroot stats vesta installs every month 25000 according to alexa web stats, vestacp.com takes: 53012 place among 30 000 000 sites over internet http://www.linux.com linux.com is a product of the linux foundation. the site is currently a central source for linux information, software, documentation and answers linux.com named vestacp among "five linux-ready, cost-effective server control panels" http://www.cloudflare.com cloudflare one of industry leaders and provides a content delivery network and distributed domain name server services. cloudflare mentioned vestacp in their support documentation "restoring the original visitor ip to vestacp" http://www.digitalocean.com digitalocean internet services provider based in new york city. one of the biggest hosting and cloud servers provider. digitalocean made a how to install vestacp on their cloud hosting server "how to install vesta control panel on ubuntu 12.04 lts" features history install pricing documentation demo forum sponsors licencing: gnu general public licence version 3 the gnu general public licence is a free, copyleft licence for software and other kinds of works. its free to change, modify and redistribute source code. source codes are available: http://github.com for hosters: we have special offer for hosting companies, just contact us to start cooperation. copyright © 2019 vesta control panel. all right reserved. facebook twitter contact us: info@vestacp.com