skip to content sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the tuesday news books, arts & manners all articles authors podcasts photos games videos podcasts the editors mad dogs & englishmen give me liberty the mccarthy report victor davis hanson for life political beats constitutionally speaking the great books the bookmonger radio free california ordered liberty photos news & events cartoons culture military science & technology sports world magazine latest issue archive subscribe give nr as a gift customer care nrplus topics politics & policy elections culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business about faq about us the masthead emails & alerts wine club careers advertise donate contact us privacy policy terms of service nr institute search send a tip instagram primary menu national review large national review logo small national review logo donate the corner ... subscribe search national review search text mar. 27, 2020 subscribe ... victor davis hanson follow @vdhanson authorvdh@gmail.com get author's rss feed nro contributor victor davis hanson is the martin and illie anderson senior fellow at the hoover institution and the author, most recently, of the case for trump. read more victor davis hanson is an american military historian, columnist, former classics professor, and scholar of ancient warfare. as a national review institute fellow, he has been a commentator on modern warfare and contemporary politics for national review and other media outlets. he was a professor of classics at california state university, fresno, and is currently the martin and illie anderson senior fellow at stanford university’s hoover institution. he has been a visiting professor at hillsdale college since 2004. hanson is perhaps best known for his 2001 book, carnage and culture. hanson was awarded the national humanities medal in 2007 by president george w. bush. hanson is also a farmer (growing raisin grapes on a family farm in selma, california) and a critic of social trends related to farming and agrarianism. the latest u.s. trump’s strategic foresight is being put to the test by victor davis hanson march 26, 2020 trump will win or lose on whether he has this foresight. nr plus politics & policy the logic of pottersville by victor davis hanson march 24, 2020 it is a wonderful life. world the psychology of viral paradoxes by victor davis hanson march 22, 2020 there are a lot of known unknowns and paradoxes in these times of uncertainty. politics & policy trump the uniter? by victor davis hanson march 20, 2020 despite dire predictions, he has united the gop and governed as a centrist conservative. elections the mysterious rise, fall, and rise of joe biden by victor davis hanson march 19, 2020 as others sank in the polls, biden seemed a known quantity in comparison. politics & policy questions about the coronavirus by victor davis hanson march 18, 2020 we need answers to some basic questions in order to fight this virus. politics & policy the 2018 blue wave that wasn’t, really by victor davis hanson march 17, 2020 democrats overhyped their takeover of the house and then over-focused on impeachment. nr plus world china boomeranging by victor davis hanson march 17, 2020 its bad behavior in the wake of covid-19 will leave it in its weakest global position in memory. and the u.s. will emerge stronger. economy & business remembering who is keeping us alive by victor davis hanson march 14, 2020 millions of americans must go to work as usual, to help those of us who stay home during the pandemic. health care the great coronavirus war is upon us by victor davis hanson march 12, 2020 if we stay calm and rational, we can defeat the enemy. load more stories from this section load more top stories photo essays 2 view slide show cartoons cartoons of the day: march 27, 2020 114 view slide show news & events deserted cityscapes 58 view slide show news & events social distancing more in photos facebook twitter ... © 2020 national review donate subscribe sections the corner bench memos the morning jolt the g-file news books, arts & manners all articles all authors podcasts photos games videos topics politics & policy culture white house film & tv pc culture u.s. world immigration economy & business elections magazine latest issue archive subscribe gve nr as a gift customer care nrplus about frequently asked questions about us the masthead contact us careers privacy policy terms of service nr institute more advertise donate search e-mails & alerts send a tip newsletters morning jolt (m-f) nr daily (m-sa) breaking news (m-su) email © 2020 national review close ad close national review navigation loading...