the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: yet another land rover defender review posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker if you’re like me, and you still haven’t gotten enough coverage of the 2020 land rover defender, then you’re in luck. i ‘ve uncovered yet another video review of this new rig, which is once again put through its paces in the wilds of namibia. by all accounts, this new defender is more capable and refined than ever before, making it a serious contender to be the top adventure vehicle in the world. i know some find its redesign to be a bit controversial for a number of reasons, but i happen to really like its looks and think that it brings some impressive technology to the table along with it. my dream trip has always been to drive across africa and this looks like a great vehicle to do just that. now where do i get my hands on one? share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: