the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: testing the new land rover defender in namibia posted on march 26, 2020march 26, 2020 by kraig becker if yesterday’s review video of the new land rover defender was a bit too whimsical for you, than perhaps his one will be more to your liking. this time, we head to the wilds of namibia to put the vehicle through its paces. in preparation for the release of the updated defender, land rover brought a contingent of journalists to africa to test the capabilities of this new model. as you’ll see, most of the concerns that some defender fans had after the new model was announced are quickly put to rest. by all accounts, this version will be more than capable as an adventure vehicle. check out the tip above to get the low down. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: