the adventure blog news, commentary, and insights on adventures, and adventurers, from around the globe. menu home contact us reaching beyond boundaries menu video: unbreakable — the story of the 2010 western states ultra posted on march 27, 2020march 27, 2020 by kraig becker if you’re looking for something inspiring, uplifting, and entertaining to watch this weekend, this video ought to do the trick. it is the entire film unbreakable, which tells the tale of the 2010 western states 100 ultramarathon. in that race, a rising young star by the name of kilian jornet arrived at the ws100 where he was set to take on three of the best long-distance runners in the world. they included hal koerner, who was the two-time defending western states champion; geoff roes, who at the time had never been beaten in a 100-mile race, and anton krupicka, who was simply undefeated in every ultramarathon he had ever taken the line at. jornet was just truly starting to make a name for himself in the sport, but was seen as an emerging force to be reckoned with. this particular race proved to be his coming out party, changing the face of the sport forever. share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on whatsapp (opens in new window) click to share on telegram (opens in new window) like this: like loading... leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website notify me of follow-up comments by email. notify me of new posts by email. search for: follow me on twittermy tweets theadventureblog she’s the fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy. #s what if my favorite #outdoor #gear quotes is on th touring the #goretex facilities in maryland this w it’s been a minute or three since i posted, so h had a lovely stay in #portland for the new year! n did a little hiking in the presidential range toda more fron#anguilla a beautiful island with lots t scenes from the caribbean! anguilla to be exact! # load more... follow on instagram subscribe to the adventure blog by email! enter your email address: delivered by feedburner the adventure blog kraig@adventureblog.net follow us facebook twitter instagram rss feed apple google spotify ©2020 the adventure blog %d bloggers like this: