home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs pretty handy girl a diy blog empowering you to complete your own project. build it, fix it and do it yourself. home project tutorials. contact advertise home about my home project gallery decorating painting & antiquing techniques 31 days of handy home fixes arts & crafts build it electrical plumbing gift ideas sewing tool tutorials home & auto maintenance landscaping & gardening photography recipes phg tv my toolbox contributors diy blogs home » video millie’s remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing – oh my! october 25, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments millie's remodel: framing, electrical, & plumbing - oh my! come take a peek into the millie's remodel project house and see the progression as i start to build back after demolition. did i say demolition is finished? i thought it was, but looks like there might be a tad … [read more...] millie's remodel, video how to protect your house from termites october 11, 2019 brittany bailey 6 comments how to protect your house from termites or why i'm canceling my termite treatment you may have seen my update at the millie's remodel and how i found termite damage under the laundry room floor. i was just completing demolition and discovered the two exterior rim joists crumbled … [read more...] home maintenance, video millie’s remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions september 2, 2019 brittany bailey 8 comments millie's remodel: hazmat demolition progress and precautions it took me two weeks, but the hazmat demolition process is finally finished. truth be told, i never wanted demolition to be completed more than on this house. it seemed like every wall i opened and every piece of … [read more...] demolition, millie's remodel, video millie’s remodel: mini demolition update august 19, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments millie's remodel: mini demolition update i know it's been a few weeks since you had an update on the millie's remodel project. if you're wondering who is millie and what am i doing to her, you can read more here. otherwise, let me give you the latest update on mini demolition … [read more...] millie's remodel, video screen porch makeover with invisible mosquito screens august 2, 2019 brittany bailey 19 comments i'm incredibly excited about our screen porch makeover with invisible mosquito screens. but, i also can't wait to share with you the almost invisible insect window screen material i found to replace our old screen porch screens. it's honestly a night and day difference! read on … [read more...] home tour, video habitat for humanity bathroom renovations in a weekend july 12, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments we recently completed habitat for humanity bathroom renovations in a weekend. i don’t usually work for others, but when the executives at my local habitat for humanity office asked me to come in and take a look at their dated bathrooms, i said i could. but, i quickly stated i … [read more...] bathroom, before and after, renew, renovation, video millie’s remodel: a 1950’s ranch renovation july 5, 2019 brittany bailey 21 comments millie's remodel: a 1950's ranch renovation this is my latest home renovation project and another opportunity to use my general contracting skills to turn a dated and neglected house into a beautiful new home. follow along with millie's remodel: a 1950's ranch … [read more...] millie's remodel, video how to stretch tight shoes may 20, 2019 brittany bailey 4 comments how to stretch tight shoes have you ever bought a pair of shoes because they were super cute, but they were a tad too tight. if you're like me, you probably bought them and thought, "they'll stretch out if i wear them enough." then a year or two later you put them on and … [read more...] diy, home & auto maintenance, thrifting, trash to treasure, upcycling, video 3 ways to shorten light fixtures for low ceilings may 6, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment hey all, do you have eight foot ceilings or lower? have you lamented the fact that the light fixtures you love will be too tall for your height-challenged ceilings? well put that light fixture back in your cart because i'm here today to show you how to make light fixtures work … [read more...] electrical, video how to install privacy film on windows april 29, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments how to install privacy film on windows do you have a window in your house that puts you on full display? or maybe your neighbor’s house is very close to your’s and you feel like they can see in your window (especially a bathroom or bedroom window.) sure you can add curtains or … [read more...] before and after, diy, renew, renovation, saving etta, video fixing sagging furniture seat cushions april 12, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment fixing sagging furniture seat cushions a few years ago i gave my stepmom’s screen porch a much needed makeover. at the time we noticed the seat cushions were starting to sag, but decided they still functioned. this year, my stepmom told me they had to be fixed. boy was she … [read more...] home maintenance, video how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door april 5, 2019 brittany bailey 2 comments how to build a reclaimed wood sliding barn door earlier this week when i showed you the master bedroom in the saving etta house, you probably noticed the sliding barn door. i am in love with that door and especially excited that i was able to salvage the old bead board and … [read more...] build it, saving etta, video how to remove scratches from a cast iron sink or tub march 26, 2019 brittany bailey 20 comments while i was helping my client get her house ready to sell she said they were committed to replacing the cast iron bathtub in their boys' bathroom because it was scratched and stained. i told her to hold off because i knew how to clean cast iron sinks and bathtubs to look new … [read more...] cleaning, home & auto maintenance, video can this battery-powered lawn mower really replace a gas-powered mower? march 18, 2019 brittany bailey 3 comments can this battery-powered lawn mower really replace a gas-powered mower? i have underestimated the abilities of battery-powered mowers for years. but, recently i received the stihl rma 460 battery powered mower to test out. did it live up to the claims? would i sell my … [read more...] landscaping & gardening, product review, video diy built-in fire pit benches march 11, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment diy built-in fire pit benches these simple diy built-in fire pit benches are a simple and attractive design. the lumber costs are low and the skills required are minimal — a winning combination in my book! just think, you could have these permanent benches built around your fire … [read more...] build it, video how to drill new door knob holes march 4, 2019 brittany bailey leave a comment how to drill new holes for door knobs every once in a while, you might find yourself with a new (or old) door that needs a hole drilled into it for a door knob (or a deadbolt). today i have the perfect tutorial to ease your mind and help you learn how to drill a new hole for … [read more...] home & auto maintenance, home decor, saving etta, video 1 2 3 next page » hi, i'm brittany aka pretty handy girl. i like the smell of coffee and sawdust in the morning. i live to break stereotypes and empower you to take on your own diy project. email facebook instagram pinterest twitter youtube subscribe to our mailing list email facebook google+ instagram pinterest twitter privacy policy affiliate link disclosure: pretty handy girl is a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. copyrighted content permission all images and tutorials on this blog are copyrighted material. please contact me if you would like to borrow any media (photos, video or audio files), tutorials, or ideas from this blog. 99% of the time i would be happy to allow you to use one photo with appropriate credit and link back to prettyhandygirl.com (preferably to the same post it was borrowed from.) i can be contacted via email: prettyhandygirl (at) gmail.com. © 2020 · pretty handy girl · we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok