kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about video see also... covid-19 medicine science music movies food how to trailers tv sports time lapse kurzgesagt mathematics sight & sound: the cinema of walter murch posted by jason kottke mar 27, 2020 from jon lefkovitz, sight & sound is a feature-length documentary film about the legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch, who edited and did sound design for films like the godfather, apocalypse now, and the conversation. this feature-length documentary, viewed and enjoyed by legendary film editor and sound designer walter murch himself (“the conversation”, “apocalypse now”), was culled by jon lefkovitz from over 50 hours of murch’s lectures, interviews, and commentaries. that’s the whole film embedded above, available online for free. here’s the trailer in case you need some prodding. i haven’t watched the whole film yet, but i’m definitely going to tuck into it in the next few days. see also worldizing — how walter murch brought more immersive sound to film. more about... film school jon lefkovitz movies sight & sound video walter murch ads via carbon coldplay’s tiny desk concert posted by jason kottke mar 27, 2020 maybe i’m gonna get some guff for this, but i believe that coldplay is an underrated band. oh sure they’re popular, but they are also good, better than their reputation suggests. brian eno doesn’t work with just anyone after all. their recent tiny desk concert at npr bears this out. backed by a fantastic nine-person choir (who previously performed with the band at a prison-reform benefit), coldplay frontman chris martin and guitarist jonny buckland joyously perform a few of their songs (like viva la vida and champion of the world) as well as a rousing cover of prince’s 1999. more about... coldplay music video how to shop safely in a pandemic posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 note: please check the updates below for some important corrections to some of the information in this video. from dr. jeffrey vanwingen md, a video on how to ensure that your grocery shopping experience is as safe as possible and to avoid potential covid-19 infection from plastic and metal surfaces. i’m going to be honest with you: a lot of this seems like overkill (as it should — see the paradox of preparation). however, this is also pretty much what i’ve been doing after grocery shopping for the past 2 weeks because i am a fastidious motherfucker1 with plenty of time to wipe down groceries. if it comes down to a choice between watching 7 more minutes of the mandalorian or wiping down my groceries before putting them in the fridge, i’m gonna wipe them groceries. baby yoda can wait. see also this pdf from crumpton group about how to keep your household free of the outside effects of the covid-19 pandemic. household members should understand that their principal effort should be directed towards isolating the inside of the home from the pandemic effects outside. all physical thresholds of the home will serve as a cordon sanitaire. strive to decontaminate everyone and everything to the best practical degree before entering. many of dr. vanwingen’s recommendations mirror those in the pdf. see also expert guidance on covid-19 and food safety. (thx, meg) update: i have not had a chance to read it yet (was attending to some other things this evening — family, trying to have some normalcy), but i’ve been told that this thread is a good response to the video above. i’ll have a closer look at it tomorrow. update: ok, i’ve read don schaffner’s thread criticizing this video. at least i think this is the video he’s referring to because he never says it outright — which i’ll get to in a minute. (schaffner is a professor in the food science department at rutgers who i linked to the other day in my post on covid-19 and food safety.) as he notes, there are a couple of factual errors and vanwingen does offer some dubious advice, particularly about washing food with soap (which i didn’t take seriously). i do not believe, however, that vanwingen was suggesting that people leave frozen items and perishables in a warm garage for 3 days and that the normal rules of food safety are somehow countermanded by potential coronavirus contamination. if you want to leave that box of cheerios that you don’t need in the car for 3 days, go right ahead. he definitely should have been clearer on that point though. but the bulk of vanwingen’s video was about how to handle your groceries and takeout food coming into your house to minimize the chance of infection. (and as i mentioned, much of it mirrors the advice in this document and in dr. michael lin’s document from a couple of weeks ago — this isn’t just his opinon or my opinion.) if we are to take seriously a) the assumption that anyone could have covid-19 (including yourself & grocery workers) that we are operating under w/r/t to handwashing & keeping a 6-foot distance, b) the preliminary results that suggest that sars-cov-2 can last on some surfaces for days, and c) that person-to-surface-to-person transfer of sars-cov-2 might result in infection (i.e. the reason we are doing all this handwashing and face not-touching), then we should be disinfecting surfaces that other people have been touching recently. right? we should assume that all surfaces are contaminated. this doesn’t seem outlandish, especially when grocery stores are restocking shelves continuously — that bag of chips that you put into your cart may have been placed on the shelf only 30 minutes before. how is disinfecting your oreos package when you get home from the store a bad idea? sure, wash your hands before you eat, but if you have kids, you know how futile that can be sometimes, especially when oreos are involved. so why not just clean the package? ditto with transferring takeout food to new containers and giving it a blast in the microwave to warm it up. schaffner’s stance is that most surfaces aren’t contaminated to a high degree, which is undoubtably true. having watched the video & read schaffner’s advice (and other advice by other experts), where your personal comfort level with making sure the surfaces you and your family come into contact to are disinfected is up to you. ultimately, advice from experts is still advice and you have to figure out whether it works for you. it’s easy to believe you should wash your hands frequently because that’s universal advice. but “you should disinfect surfaces you touch” and “you don’t have to worry too much about disinfecting your grocery packages” are genuinely conflicting bits of advice from well-meaning experts! you’ve gotta use your noggin and make up your own mind, based on your personal idea of risk and safety. it’s gonna land differently with different people. finally, i’m going to get a little cranky here, but i found schaffner’s overall tone in the first few tweets of that thread mocking, ungenerous, and unhelpful. instead of gently offering alternative authoritative advice, he subtweeted (by refusing to link to the video and calling dr. vanwingen not by his name but referring to him as “the video md”) and made fun of vanwingen’s outfit. i know it must be frustrating to see what you perceive as misinformation out there, but we do not need doctor vs doctor battles here. everyone’s just going to get defensive and dig their heels in. </cranky> hey, if you don’t know what you should be doing in a certain situation w/r/t to coronavirus, just ask your most detail-oriented friend. you know, the one who shows up to things on time and is usually a fussy pain in your ass. they’ll have a plan all ready to go and will be happy to share it with you because they’ve been waiting years for some shit like this to happen. now is our time to shine!↩ more about... covid-19 don schaffner food how to jeffrey vanwingen medicine science video stream ken burns’ baseball documentary series for free on pbs posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 it would have been opening day for baseball here in the us. since we’re without the actual thing due to covid-19, ken burns asked pbs to allow people to stream his 18-hour documentary series on baseball from 1994 for free (us & canada). here’s part one: (via open culture) more about... baseball ken burns pbs sports tv video surreal drone tour of a pandemic-emptied san francisco posted by jason kottke mar 26, 2020 this is a short drone tour of san francisco with the shelter-in-place order in effect — it looks abandoned. fisherman’s wharf, downtown, market street, the haight — i think i saw like 8 people total during the whole video. heartening to see that people are taking shelter-in-place seriously. more about... covid-19 drones san francisco video time lapse of a sunflower growing from seed to flower posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 starting from a seed, a sunflower plant grows, flowers…and then wilts. i’ve always thought these kinds of videos were wonderful, but given recent events, they are hitting with an extra poignance. or maybe hope in a strange sort of way? i don’t know what one is supposed to be feeling about anything these days. in this other sunflower time lapse, you can more clearly see the little seed helmets worn by the tiny plants soon after sprouting. cute! more about... time lapse video stream helvetica & other design documentaries for free posted by jason kottke mar 23, 2020 thinking that some people might need high quality entertainment while shut inside due to the covid-19 pandemic, filmmaker gary hustwit is streaming his films online for free, one film per week. first up (from mar 17-24) is helvetica, his documentary on typography and graphic design. here’s the trailer: click through to watch the whole film. (via daring fireball) more about... design gary hustwit helvetica movies trailers typography video recently discovered comet might put on a show posted by jason kottke mar 23, 2020 back in late december, a new comet called comet atlas (or c/2019 y4) was discovered by a robotic astronomical survey on the lookout for objects that may strike the earth. don’t worry, comet atlas isn’t going to hit us, but it has a chance to put on quite a show.1 it didn’t seem like much at first, but since its discovery comet atlas has gotten brighter much faster than scientists have expected. when astronomers first spotted comet atlas in december, it was in ursa major and was an exceedingly faint object, close to 20th magnitude. that’s about 398,000 times dimmer than stars that are on the threshold of naked-eye visibility. at the time, it was 273 million miles (439 million kilometers) from the sun. but comets typically brighten as they approach the sun, and at its closest, on may 31, comet atlas will be just 23.5 million miles (37.8 million km) from the sun. such a prodigious change in solar distance would typically cause a comet to increase in luminosity by almost 11 magnitudes, enough to make atlas easily visible in a small telescope or a pair of good binoculars, although quite frankly nothing really to write home about. except, since its discovery, the comet has been brightening at an almost unprecedented speed. as of march 17, atlas was already magnitude +8.5, over 600 times brighter than forecast. as a result, great expectations are buzzing for this icy lump of cosmic detritus, with hopes it could become a stupendously bright object by the end of may. but the brightening could also be a sign that the comet is ejecting a lot of material because it’s burning itself out, so grain of salt. but if keeps brightening at a good pace, it could be visible during the day in the northern hemisphere. if atlas manages to remain intact, some in the field have suggested it could grow from magnitude +1 to possibly -5. at the brightest extreme, it could be visible even during the day. the location of the comet is also notable-unlike more recent comets, it will be best viewed in the northern hemisphere. chuck ayoub recently captured the comet arcing across the night sky with his backyard astrophotography rig: oh i hope comet atlas can keep it together. i vividly remember going outside in rural wisconsin darkness to see the tail of comet hyakutake stretch halfway across the sky. one of the most amazing things i’ve ever seen. although i guess comet atlas is good news if you’re looking for signs of the apocalypse too. pandemic: check. bright new light in the sky: check.↩ more about... astronomy chuck ayoub comets science space video picking up glowing hot space shuttle tiles with bare hands posted by jason kottke mar 20, 2020 space shuttle thermal tiles conduct heat so poorly that after being in a 2200 °f oven for hours, you can pick them up with your bare hands only seconds after they come out, still glowing hot. more about... science space shuttle video a kid-friendly explanation of how hand washing with soap clobbers coronavirus posted by jason kottke mar 19, 2020 i don’t know if they specifically had this in mind when making it, but this video from vox about the importance of hand washing with soap to kill coronavirus is very kid-friendly. from my pals at the excellent the kid should see this wash your hands for 20 seconds with soap and water. this is the very best way to kill viruses like coronavirus. but why? what’s happening on our hands when we use soap and water? and why do we have to wash with soap for 20 seconds? why not ten? the glow-in-the-dark explanation of the 20-second rule was extremely convincing. see also how to wash your hands properly and washing your hands is important because soap “absolutely annihilates” coronavirus. (via tksst) update: mark rober did an experiment with a powder that glows under uv and can be transferred from surface to surface (or hand to surface). you can see the germs spreading from person to person and all over that classroom. yikes. more about... covid-19 mark rober medicine video an explanation of how coronavirus damages your body posted by jason kottke mar 19, 2020 this morning kurzgesagt released their video about covid-19 that they’ve been working on for a week, and it is excellent, particularly the first part where they explain exactly what the sars-cov-2 virus does to a human body and why it can be so dangerous. i hadn’t heard that described before, especially in such relatively simple terms. the virus has not caused too much damage yet, but corona is now going to release a real beast on you: your own immune system. the immune system, while there to protect you, can actually be pretty dangerous to yourself and needs tight regulation. and as immune cells pour into the lungs to fight the virus, corona infects some of them and creates confusion. cells have neither ears nor eyes — they communicate mostly via tiny information proteins called cytokines — nearly every important immune reaction is controlled by them. corona causes infected immune cells to overreact and yell bloody murder. in a sense, it puts the immune system into a fighting frenzy and sends way more soldiers than it should, wasting its resources and causing damage. kurzgesagt always provides a list of scientific sources used to produce their videos, and the one for this video is particularly extensive and they are going to keep it updated. update: for more information on the coronavirus itself, sars-cov-2, see ed yong’s piece in the atlantic and how the coronavirus could take over your body (before you ever feel it) from new york magazine. more about... covid-19 kurzgesagt medicine science video modifying hospital ventilators to work with multiple patients posted by jason kottke mar 19, 2020 one of the key shortages in areas overwhelmed by covid-19 patients (like italy) is ventilators in hospitals. covid-19 is a respiratory illness and respirators are essential in treating patients with acute symptoms. in the us and other countries, experts are warning of ventilator shortages and manufacturers say it will be difficult to ramp up production quickly enough to meet demand. so healthcare providers are looking for other solutions. one potential solution is modifying ventilators to work for more than one person at a time. based on feasibility research published in 2006, the simple technique uses inexpensive parts that hospitals already have on hand to modify machines to work with 4 patients at a time (with important caveats). one of the authors of that research paper, dr. charlene babcock, explains how to hack the ventilators in this video: some notes from the video: the initial study used test lungs (not actual humans) you need to make sure the lung size and resistance of all four patients hooked up to a single ventilator are the same. no mixing adults and kids, for instance. make sure the ventilator tubes leading to and from the patients are all the same length. this technique has been used successfully in the field, during the aftermath of the 2017 las vegas shooting. they did not investigate cross-contamination effects, so you have to make sure all the patients connected to one machine are covid-19 patients in order to mitigate the risk. in closing, babcock says: now here’s my disclaimer. this is off-label use of the ventilator. the ventilator is made for one person and i’m using it here in a simulation of four patients. i always hope that you would never need to use it in this way, but you can never predict what’s going to happen in a disaster. and if it was me and i had four patients and they all needed intubation and i only had one ventilator, i would simply have a shared discussion meeting with all four families and say “i could pick one to live or we could try to have all four live”. but this is clearly off-label and likely would only be used in dire circumstance, which we may see with covid-19. other people are working on designing and deploying open source ventilators and ventilators made from parts of other machines. all this reminds me of that scene in apollo 13 where nasa engineers design a modified co2 scrubber using only parts available on the spacecraft. a similar “failure is not an option” spirit might be called for in this case as well. more about... charlene babcock covid-19 medicine science video fox news moves closer to the truth as covid-19 crisis deepens posted by jason kottke mar 18, 2020 the washington post made this short video that shows how fox news personalities were talking about the covid-19 pandemic a week or two ago — it’s a democrat hoax!! — compared to their more recent coverage that aligns closer with the truth. for weeks, some of fox news’s most popular hosts downplayed the threat of the coronavirus, characterizing it as a conspiracy by media organizations and democrats to undermine president trump. fox news personalities such as sean hannity and laura ingraham accused the news media of whipping up “mass hysteria” and being “panic pushers.” fox business host trish regan called the alleged media-democratic alliance “yet another attempt to impeach the president.” it has never been more plain that fox news is not journalism but conservative propaganda. they, along with trump, some conservative members of congress, and conservative talk radio, were just straight up lying, misleading the public, and peddling conspiracy theories until it became overwhelmingly clear that this is a serious situation, as experts had been saying for weeks. the video shows completely contradictory statements made by the same people days apart; as andrew kaczynski says, “what a damning indictment”. i’ll go further than that: fox news endangered the lives of americans with their false and misleading coverage. people will suffer and die unnecessarily because of it. i’d urge you to show this to your red state relatives and ask them to defend fox news as journalism, but i don’t think it will actually do any good. the whole point of propaganda is to deprive people of, as hannah arendt puts it, the “capacity to think and to judge”. the moment we no longer have a free press, anything can happen. what makes it possible for a totalitarian or any other dictatorship to rule is that people are not informed; how can you have an opinion if you are not informed? if everybody always lies to you, the consequence is not that you believe the lies, but rather that nobody believes anything any longer. this is because lies, by their very nature, have to be changed, and a lying government has constantly to rewrite its own history. on the receiving end you get not only one lie-a lie which you could go on for the rest of your days-but you get a great number of lies, depending on how the political wind blows. and a people that no longer can believe anything cannot make up its mind. it is deprived not only of its capacity to act but also of its capacity to think and to judge. and with such a people you can then do what you please. more about... andrew kaczynski covid-19 fox news hannah arendt journalism video italy sings together during coronavirus lockdown posted by jason kottke mar 14, 2020 people under quarantine lockdown in italy due to the country’s covid-19 outbreak have been singing and playing music out their windows and on their balconies to keep their spirits up while social distancing. here’s a twitter thread with more videos from salerno, turin, naples, siena, florence, etc. no matter how much fear and panic and anxiety and negativity are on display during a crisis, it also brings out the best in people. humans are social animals and we can’t help sharing with our neighbors, comforting one another, and coming together even when we’re physically apart. more about... covid-19 italy music video a joyful flash mob plays beethoven’s symphony no. 9 posted by jason kottke mar 12, 2020 this is an oldie but a goodie. watch as a single busking bass player grows into the vallès symphony orchestra and a pair of choirs to perform a rousing rendition of beethoven’s symphony no. 9 (ode to joy) in front of a delighted crowd. (via @victoriamia) more about... crying at work ludwig van beethoven music video surreal video of a soccer match played in an empty stadium posted by jason kottke mar 12, 2020 yesterday i watched a bit of the champions league match between psg and borussia dortmund, played at the parc des princes stadium in paris, which has a seating capacity of almost 48,000 under normal circumstances. but for yesterday’s game, the game was played in a completely empty stadium in order to help prevent the spread of covid-19. without the chants, jeers, and cheers of the crowd, you can clearly hear the actual sounds of the game like the players talking to each other and the ball being kicked. here’s another video from a borussia monchengladbach & fc koln match played under similar circumstances. this shot from just before kickoff really underscores just how huge and empty these stadiums are. i’m not sure how much the empty stadium hampered the potential spread of the virus though — psg fans gathered in huge numbers outside parc des princes to cheer on their team during the match and celebrate the win afterwards. the nba was considering playing their games in front of empty stadiums, but then utah jazz player rudy gobert tested positive for covid-19 (after touching all the microphones as a way to mock coronavirus fears — life comes at you fast!) and now the nba has suspended its season for at least a month. mlb and the nhl have done likewise. more about... covid-19 nba pasketball soccer sports video why do new diseases like covid-19 appear first in china? posted by jason kottke mar 12, 2020 this video from vox is a few days old but is still a good look at why diseases like sars and covid-19 originate in china. it involved the designation of wild animals as “natural resources” by the chinese government, which caused a large increase in wildlife farming, with many more and different kinds of animals being put into contact with humans and each other on a regular basis. add illegally trafficked animals into the mix, and you’ve got the right conditions for diseases to jump from the animals to humans. then potentially infected animals and their meat, accompanied by potentially infected humans who raised those animals and butchered that meat, are then brought to the wet markets for sale to the public. it’s important to note, as christopher st. cavish says in the la times, “most wet markets are not wildlife markets, and confusing the two is dangerous”: “wet” markets are what china calls its fresh food markets, the kind you see all over the developing world and in many parts of europe, where small stalls sell fresh vegetables and butchers sell meat, primarily pork. they are the daily market for tens of millions of chinese who prefer to talk to the people who sell them produce, meat, seafood and tofu, and in small cities, are often the only outlet for small-scale farmers who can’t meet the supplier requirements for supermarkets. i couldn’t find any up-to-date information on which animal is suspected of passing the coronavirus responsible for covid-19 along to humans, but bats are a prime suspect with a possible pangolin intermediary. (via open culture) more about... china christopher st. cavish covid-19 food video exponential growth and epidemics posted by jason kottke mar 10, 2020 from 3blue1brown’s grant sanderson, this is an excellent quick explanation of exponential growth and how we should think about it in relation to epidemics like covid-19. depending on how rusty your high school math is, you might need to rewind a couple of times to fully grasp the explanation, but you should persevere and watch the whole thing. the most important bit is at the end, right around the 7:45 mark, when he talks about how limiting person-to-person exposure and decreasing the probability of exposures becoming infections can have a huge effect on the total number of people infected because the growth is exponential. if large numbers of people start doing things like limiting travel, cancelling large gatherings, social distancing, and washing their hands frequently, the total number of infections could fall by several orders of magnitude, making the exponential work for us, not against us. small efforts have huge results. if, as in the video, you’re talking about 100 million infected in two months (at the current transmission rate) vs. 400,000 (at the lowered rate) and if the death rate of covid-19 is between 1-3%, you’re looking at 1-3 million dead vs. 4-12,000 dead. so let’s start flattening that exponential curve. south korea and china both seem to have done it, so there’s no reason the rest of the world can’t through aggressive action. (thx, david) update: vox has a nice explainer on what epidemiologists refer to as “flattening the curve”. yet the speed at which the outbreak plays out matters hugely for its consequences. what epidemiologists fear most is the health care system becoming overwhelmed by a sudden explosion of illness that requires more people to be hospitalized than it can handle. in that scenario, more people will die because there won’t be enough hospital beds or ventilators to keep them alive. a disastrous inundation of hospitals can likely be averted with protective measures we’re now seeing more of — closing schools, canceling mass gatherings, working from home, self-quarantine, avoiding crowds - to keep the virus from spreading fast. epidemiologists call this strategy of preventing a huge spike in cases “flattening the curve”. here’s the relevant graphic explanation from our world in data’s covid-19 package: more about... covid-19 grant sanderson mathematics medicine video the long goodbye posted by jason kottke mar 09, 2020 british rapper and actor riz ahmed released an album last week called the long goodbye. it’s a breakup album with a twist — ahmed is not breaking up with a partner but with a racist, post-brexit britain. a guardian review describes it as “a conceptual work based around the idea that british asians are locked in an abusive relationship with the uk and that the rising tide of racism spawned by brexit might represent the moment at which they’ve finally been dumped”. to accompany the album, ahmed collaborated with director aneil karia to make a short film (embedded above). it starts out with a typical british domestic scene but after a few minutes, it becomes something else entirely. be warned: this film is quite intense & dystopian. (via dunstan) more about... aneil karia brexit music racism riz ahmed uk video here’s what a googol-to-one gear ratio looks like posted by jason kottke mar 05, 2020 to celebrate being alive for a billion seconds, daniel bruin built a machine with 100 gears with a 10-to-1 gear ratio…meaning that the overall gear ratio is a googol-to-one. (a googol is 1 with 100 zeros.) this machine has a gear reduction of 1 to 10 a hundred times. in order to get the last gear to turn once you’ll need to spin the first one a google [sic] amount around. or better said you’ll need more energy than the entire known universe has to do that. that boggles my mind. you can watch the machine spin for an hour — it’s kinda relaxing: bruin says his machine was inspired by arthur ganson’s machine with concrete, a contraption whose gears spin so slowly that the final gear is embedded in concrete. (via digg) more about... daniel bruin video remaking the spider-verse trailer with traditional animation techniques posted by jason kottke mar 05, 2020 animator pinot ichwandardi, designer/illustrator dita ichwandardi, and their three young children decided to remake some of the iconic scenes from the spider-man: into the spider-verse trailer using traditional animation techniques. you can see some of the process and the impressive results in the video above. they drew the scenes by hand, built their own multiplane camera setup (a la disney), and constructed a camera rig using lego. you can read more about their process in these two twitter threads: one, two. after they were done, sony animation invited the family to visit their california campus to meet some of the team that worked on the movie, including producers phil lord and chris miller. see also how animators created spider-verse. more about... animation dita ichwandardi movies pinot ichwandardi remix spider-man trailers video sit-skier trevor kennison drops into corbet’s couloir posted by jason kottke mar 03, 2020 with a mandatory steep drop into a narrow chute with rock walls on two sides, corbet’s couloir at jackson hole in wyoming is one of america’s most challenging ski runs. during the annual kings & queens of corbet’s event, skiers from all over converge to huck themselves over the cornice, doing backflips, spins, and grabs of all kinds. i’d heard that sit-skier trevor kennison, who has been paralyzed from the waist down since a snowboarding accident in 2014, had dropped into corbet’s during the 2019 kings & queens event but i’d never sat down to watch the video. do yourself a favor and check this out: from an rei blog post about kennison: trevor kennison imagined skiing corbet’s couloir — jackson hole, wyoming’s iconic and nearly vertical chute with a dicey, dramatic entrance — six times in his head while waiting at the top. he closed his eyes, took three fast breaths, then visualized it: ride the ramp at just the right speed, hit the takeoff, hug the rocks on skier’s left, then stick the landing into the chute. if he could picture it going perfectly in his head, he knew he could pull it off. he’d wanted to ski this line for years and finally, the day had come. kennison, who’s paralyzed from the waist down, says he wasn’t scared. “i knew what i had to do. i was ready,” kennison, 26, said. “everything i do is calculated risk. i think, where is it going to go wrong? i learn so much from the people around me.” so great. i finally went down this rabbit hole because kennison skied at our local ski area yesterday here in vt and dropped a couple of cliffs. i didn’t get over there to hang out, but i did see a friend of my son’s skiing with him in his insta stories. more about... disability skiing trevor kennison video recycling used hotel soaps posted by jason kottke mar 02, 2020 clean the world is a non-profit organization that works with hotels to recycle used soap & other toiletry products left behind by their customers into new, sanitized soap that is then distributed to people without easy access to soap to prevent disease. here’s how it works: since 2009, clean the world has distributed 53 million bars of soap and saved 20 million pounds of waste from being discarded. their hotel partners include hilton, hyatt, best western, marriott, and other prominent hotel groups. more about... recycling video why don’t blue whales get cancer? posted by jason kottke mar 02, 2020 even though larger animals like elephants and blue whales have up to 100 billion more cells than humans in their bodies — and therefore many more chances for harmful mutations to develop — they are much more immune to cancer. this is called peto’s paradox the subject of kurzgesagt’s latest video. scientists aren’t sure why this happens, but one hypothesis is that in order to have grown so large, the evolutionary process that resulted in these animals provided built-in defenses against cancer that other animals didn’t need. further reading on the topic is available here. more about... cancer kurzgesagt medicine science video cycling through all the streets of london posted by jason kottke mar 02, 2020 over a period of four years, davis vilums cycled every street in central london. a map and a time lapse of his journeys: including some irregular times off, overall it took me four years to visit every single road on the map. when i started this hobby, it took me 30 to 40 minutes to do the route. later it expanded to 2 hours to get to the office when i tried to reach the furthest places on my map. one of the main goals was never to be late for work. from the beginning, i planned to visit not only the main roads but every single accessible mews, yard, park trail, and a path that was possible to go through. i used endomondo app to have a proper record of my journeys and proof that i have been there. after every trip, i prepared my next route in google maps where it was easy to adjust streets to the next ones and mark points to revisit if i missed something. more about... cycling davis vilums infoviz london maps time lapse video mug posted by jason kottke feb 28, 2020 this slow and meditative video features a potter making a mug from scratch. there’s no dialogue but don’t skimp on the sound…headphones are best. i could have watched this for an hour. (via @craigmod) more about... video trailer for season 2 of ugly delicious posted by jason kottke feb 25, 2020 chef david chang, who i guess is in the process of being not a chef now in the way that bourdain became not a chef, is back for season 2 of ugly delicious, a food/travel/culture show on netflix. from eater: like the first season, this one promises to “use food as a vehicle to break down cultural barriers, tackle misconceptions and uncover shared experiences,” per a press release. the four episodes — only half the number of episodes as season 1 — will focus on food made for babies and children (“kids’ menu”), the vast world of indian food (“don’t call it curry”), the appeal and mystique of steak (“steak”), and the varied cuisines that encompass what’s generalized as “middle eastern” cooking (“as the meat turns”). i really liked season 1 of this show and i am not going to lie, i would love to somehow be involved in season 3. david, i have a passport, love to eat, and can talk about *gestures around at website* almost anything. hit me up! more about... david chang food trailers travel tv video how to make aleppo soap using traditional methods posted by jason kottke feb 24, 2020 since 1945, syrian company pearl soap has been using traditional centuries-old methods of making “aleppo soap” from olive oil and laurel oil. here’s how they do it (i love the contraption they use to cut the soap): after cutting, the soap is stacked and aged: the cubes of soap are then stacked in staggered cylinders to allow maximum air exposure. once they have dried sufficiently, they are put into a special subterranean chamber to be aged for one year. you can’t buy pearl’s soap directly from their website and i couldn’t find it anywhere else, but aleppo soap from other makers is widely available on amazon and etsy. (via huit denim) more about... how to syria video the last video store posted by jason kottke feb 24, 2020 from director arthur cauty, a short documentary film about the oldest video rental store in the world, bristol’s 20th century flicks, which has been operating continuously since 1982. says cauty: it’s an ode to the video shop experience and a bygone way of watching movies. with studios like disney launching their own streaming services and joining industry kingpins such as netflix and hulu, we have an almost endless flow of entertainment available at the click of a button. it’s amazing to me that a little independent video store can survive the netflix cull and even outlive blockbuster. drop into the shop next time you’re in bristol for a dose of movie nostalgia, have a chat about film and go home with a vhs rarity and a bag of popcorn. from a 2014 guardian piece about the shop as they were attempting an ultimately successful move & crowdfunding campaign: the shop was never what you’d call high street, sandwiched as it was between bristol university’s monstrous student’s union and the clifton wine bar, but was always somewhere bristolians were willing to travel to. in the 1990s there may have been a blockbuster in every district, but if you wanted to rent fitzcarraldo, flicks was your only option. the shop’s all-time greatest hit is withnail and i, and the current top of its chart is calvary. its policy of not disposing of titles when rentals slowed has resulted in an enviable off-site archive for requests — including a core of vhs movies that were never released on dvd and are still regularly taken out. the owners say the store has a collection of more than 20,000 different titles, “about five times more than netflix”. see also memory power, a short doc about a pennsylvania video store that’s also hanging in there. more about... arthur cauty video russian multiplication: a different way to multiply posted by jason kottke feb 24, 2020 i’ve loved math since i was a kid. one of the big reasons for this is that there’s always more than one way to solve a particular problem and in discovering those solutions, you learn something about mathematics and the nature of numbers.1 in this video, math fan johnny ball shows us a different method of multiplication. in russian multiplication (also called ethiopian multiplication and related to ancient egyptian multiplication), you can multiply any two numbers together through simple addition and doubling & halving numbers. the technique works by converting the numbers to binary and turning it into an addition problem. i loved learning about this so much that i scribbled an explanation out on a napkin at brunch yesterday to show a friend how it worked. we’re friends because she was just as excited as i was about it. (via the kid should see this) i’ve probably told this story here before, but for an assignment in a quantum mechanics class in college, we had to derive an equation using two different techniques. after much struggle at the whiteboard on a saturday morning, a friend and i got the results of these two approaches to converge on the same answer and it felt like we had unlocked a deep secret to the universe.↩ more about... how to johnny ball mathematics video older posts kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives