events resource center magazine contact us march 27, 2020 flipboard youtube pinterest linked in twitter facebook small business trends news • resources • advice home marketing social media retail trends sales marketing tips local marketing management management employment business books book lists humor small business operations technology product lists technology trends product reviews finance economy taxes vc & angel capital small business loans finance advice startup franchise handmade business green business interviews research motivational quotes resources search trending: marketing 101 small business growth coronavirus biz advicetaxes about us | advertise vidreach launches a new email video marketing app for small businesses published: mar 27, 2020 by rob starr in small business news 0 0 shares | email this article 0 shares email this article a new simple plug-n-play mobile app is making video email accessible for digital face to face communication. vidreach individual focuses on personalized video email for small businesses. it also lets users take advantage of this kind of marketing through their mobile devices. small business trends contacted sean gordon, ceo of vidreach, to find out more about why this new tool matters to smb’s video email marketing app “vidreach is a video email and sales tool helping businesses engage prospects, bring in more leads and close more deals,” he writes. “the goal is to help small businesses reach their full potential.” personal message another benefit is there’s no lag in getting your message out in a personal way. “this is a quick and easy solution that helps small businesses rehumanize tech-driven communication with video via email or text. video provides real-time communication to customers, employees, or prospects. it helps small businesses differentiate themselves, no matter what space they operate in.” there are a variety of interesting features like unlimited video emails and templates that are available. small businesses will find integration with salesforce, outlook and gmail handy. there’s also useful engagement analytics available on important metrics like clicks and opens. having metrics at your fingertips is always a great way of finding out what works and what doesn’t. tech wizard you don’t need to be a tech wizard to use this tool or have one on staff to get it up and running either. “we developed the vidreach individual to be used anytime, anywhere, on any device. the process is easy and intuitive regardless of a user’s level of tech experience,” gordon says. “if you can hit ‘record’, you can use vidreach.” this is another example where tech meets a more personalized approach. video has always been informative and engaging. vidreach individual streamlines the process and puts it in the palm of a businesses’ hand. a face on communications with covid 19 raging around the planet, this tool puts a face on your communications when you can’t be there. or even when you’re on the go. “video helps you get face-to-face, boosts engagement, differentiates you from the competition, and personalizes your communication on all levels. it helps you stay relevant and personal when you can’t be face-to-face with your audience.” there is also an individual license with no contracts and a screen capture feature. customer service is another big strong suit since this tool offers unlimited one-on-one support. there is also a free 14-day trial. small businesses can find out more about vidreach individual by visiting here. the mobile applications are also available from the google play store and the apple app store. image: vidreach.io comment ▼ 2020-03-27 editor's picks zoho launches a small business emergency subscription assistance program small business owners lack confidence but not revenue hello alice launches business for all and covid-19 business resource center rob starr linkedin facebook twitter rob starr is a staff writer for small business trends. rob is a freelance journalist and content strategist/manager with three decades of experience in both print and online writing. he currently works in new york city as a copywriter and all across north america for a variety of editing and writing enterprises. leave a reply cancel reply your email address will not be published. required fields are marked * comment name * email * website subscribe follow @smallbiztrends rss linkedin pinterest itunes subscribe to our newsletter submit report this ad coronavirus biz advice zoho launches remotely, a remote collaboration and productivity platform view all report this ad small business trends founded in 2003, small business trends is an award-winning online publication for small business owners, entrepreneurs and the people who interact with them. our mission is to bring you "small business success... delivered daily." more motivational quotes small business news cartoon gallery small business spotlight contact advertise contact us support privacy terms about company media kit editorial calendar resource center site map newsletter our other site bizsugar facebook twitter linked in pinterest rss © copyright 2003 - 2020, small business trends llc. all rights reserved. "small business trends" is a registered trademark. powered by subscribe to our newsletter submit