got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... viral ‘bbc dad’ returns to explain the struggles of working from home with his kids during quarantine! home › tv news › viral ‘bbc dad’ returns to explain the struggles of working from home with his kids during quarantine! if anyone can make us smile during these hectic times, it’s bbc dad and his rambunctious af kids! for those who don’t know what we’re talking about, political science professor robert e. kelly became the internet’s sweetheart in 2017 when his two sprightly young children crashed his live television interview that was being conducted from his home office. now, kelly is working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic, so bbc news thought it would be the perfect time to catch up with him — and his kids, of course! photo: bbc dad’s daughter becomes an unlikely fashion icon! just after the three-year anniversary of bbc dad’s genesis, kelly, his wife kim jung-a, daughter marion, and son james returned to bbc news for another live interview to talk about the global covid-19 crisis. naturally, his children stole the show yet again. in the video (below), kelly tried to keep it cool while marion tussled his hair as jung-a answered a question about parenting at home during the coronavirus quarantine. she said: “it’s very difficult to stay in the house for a long time.” marion made that clear later in the interview when she turned getting up from her seat into a game with dad while kelly was being asked a question about the state of south korea, where his family lives. despite the distractions, kelly managed to stay focused and reply: “i think south koreans have actually dealt with it really well. i think social compliance here has been pretty high. you don’t see the kind of stuff that you’ve seen in the united states, with like people crowding beaches and people refusing to stay off the subways and stuff like that. south koreans have actually really responded really well, and that’s why the curve has flattened now to only 100 a day. so it’s actually been pretty successful.” while south korea was never under an official lockdown, officials still asked citizens to stay inside their homes and not to congregate. the strictest of the country’s guidelines have since been lifted, meaning they can go outside, kim said, but they’re still following orders to stay away from other people. she added: “a couple times a week, we hike a hill. this is spring season in korea, so we try to go see the flowers and trees — and they can shout and scream.” gotta let all that energy out somewhere! ch-ch-check out the family’s full interview (below) to see the triumphant return of bbc dad. [image via bbc news] related posts khloé kardashian claps back after fans call out ‘hypocrisy’ over forgiving tristan thompson & exiling jordyn woods! ariana grande, victoria justice, & victorious castmates reflect on 10th anniversary! wendy williams shading lamar odom & his fiancée on youtube is a return to form! the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on kuwtk! click click click next article next article mar 26, 2020 1:09pm pdt share this categories coronavirus perezcious parenting perezitos tv news viral: news view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy