skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar eric kim blog start here street photography equipment masters composition philosophy stoicism motivation aesthetics entrepreneurship productivity motivation creativity cinema shop products cart amazon books workshops ars beta show search search this website hide search virtue flexing i always get very suspicious when people engage in “virtuous” acts of valor, and highly broadcast it, and also sort of make you feel bad for not acting as virtuously as them. nassim taleb calls it “virtue signaling”. i call it “virtue flexing”. is there anything wrong with virtue flexing? not necessarily. but i’d encourage you the following: don’t let others make you feel bad about yourself for not acting like them. ignore others when someone tries to virtue flex on you, just smile, nod, and walk away. no need to give them any unnecessary attention. it’s like what they say: don’t feed the trolls. why help other people? a suspicion: when we try to help “the helpless poor people”, isn’t this disrespectful? inherent in this, we see ourselves superior to the poor. but is this fair? what if they don’t want your pity and help? what if some poor people actually see themselves as superior to you? then who are we to feel “pity” for the poor, or those who are in a “lesser” socio-economic class? why do people virtue flex? i think it is because they want to somehow be rewarded for their virtuosity. but this is base. to desire some sort of pat on the back for virtuous behaviors is downright despicable. it strips away all honor from the virtuous act. also from a pragmatic perspective: if you do something virtuous, and virtue flex, and nobody congratulates you, you’re gonna feel dumb, bitter, and shitty. who does virtue flexing actually benefit? sometimes i virtue flex, or tell others about my virtuous acts. why? i’d like to inspire them to also do the same. but when i do it, i try my best not to put myself on some moral pedestal or high horse. i just try to say the facts and why i did it. it’s not useful to tell others that they should do as you did. enough to just share what you did… that’s it. henri neck strap (mark iii) shoot fearless > haptic industries creative tools to empower you. haptic industries on amazon > eric kim newsletter free motivation: email address eric kim workshops conquer your fears and meet new peers: april 25-26: chicago conquer composition workshop september 19-20: boston discover your unique voice in photography workshop (new date) november 4-8: havana, cuba travel street photography workshop experience – register intent join ars: the anti-social social media for photographers what do people really think about your photos? arsbeta.com primary sidebar cart street starter kit master street photography for yourself > muse by kim discover your new muse > henri shoulder strap instant classic > suits own a piece of photo history > eric kim case just in-case > eric kim neck strap mark ii ricoh mafia > haptic magazine read our haptic magazine: issue 1 “our story” > haptic makes creative tools to empower visual artists. from educational tools, art platforms, to camera equipment, haptic is driven by a spirit of experimentation and creative collaboration. we are a majority women led, family operated industry, and have great pride in everything we make. see the haptic shop > (we ship worldwide from california) see all our products on amazon > haptic industries haptic mission: we believe in disrupting the production market for photography, art, and creative tools. we are transparent about the labor practices behind haptic because we are proud and love everything we make. we support honest and beautiful work with respectful wages to our artists, artisans, and collaborators. we are not anonymous. our products are a story. haptic products are printed, prepared, shipped from california with creative collaborators from saigon. read more about our values and collaborations with artists and artisans > see all products in haptic shop > haptic industries on amazon > haptic industries haptic industries: creative tools to empower you > see haptic on amazon > footer all is open-source start here shop books workshops ars beta