skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search vishnu this author has written 38 articles home » archives for vishnu top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 march 27, 2020 vishnu plugins 7 comments looking to integrate google maps into your website? these popular google maps plugins for wordpress will help you to get started in no time. it is quite easy to include an interactive map on your website. just submit your location… read more→ awesome woocommerce extensions to extend functionality: part iii march 27, 2020 vishnu plugins 0 comments woocommerce is a popular platform for building and running an online store. it comes with a whole range of functions to run a business of any size. there are many extensions made especially for woocommerce, either to add functionality or… read more→ 16 useful landing page plugins for wordpress to improve conversion rates march 18, 2020 vishnu plugins 2 comments do you have an online store? do you offer any services online? are you looking to increase the number of members subscribing to your service? then, you must have heard of landing pages. if you haven't, it is time to… read more→ 16 efficient event calendar plugins for wordpress 2020 march 18, 2020 vishnu plugins 1 comment event calendar plugins are popular and installed on many websites. they can be used for a number of purposes, such as displaying events, showing upcoming events, inviting and receiving registrations, accepting bookings, and scheduling events. from simple calendars that merely display… read more→ 14 awesome drag-and-drop plugins for building wordpress pages march 17, 2020 vishnu plugins 4 comments how often have you felt the need to make improvements to your website? perhaps you want to give it a brand-new look or feel? ever felt like trying it out on your own? is programming not on the list of… read more→ awesome ad banner management plugins for your wordpress march 16, 2020 vishnu plugins 5 comments monetizing is a big part of website management. while some bloggers keep their sites ad-free to retain focus on the content, many blogs and websites start as business ventures with profit as the goal. space on the website is made… read more→ 17 essential plugins for wordpress multisite 2020 march 16, 2020 vishnu plugins 2 comments wordpress multisite allows you to install wordpress just once and to add as many wordpress sites as you want. manage your network from a single wordpress dashboard with the same username and password. others can sign up and create their… read more→ 13 super plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site 2020 march 16, 2020 vishnu plugins 0 comments below are 10 plugins to clone or duplicate your wordpress site in the simplest way possible. do you want to give your website a makeover and add some special features? do you want to try out new stuff, vary it… read more→ popular alternatives to wordpress content management system (cms) 2019 december 6, 2019 vishnu inspiration 7 comments wordpress as a content management system has a great many advantages going for it. it is versatile, customizable and is compatible with thousands of themes and plugins. it has a searchable database and a vast community that supports it. wordpress… read more→ 30 beautiful websites using the popular uncode wordpress theme november 29, 2019 vishnu inspiration 2 comments wordpress is a marvelous platform on which to build your website. but to add an aesthetic appeal to the website, to personalize and brand it, you need a great theme to go with it. one such awesome theme is uncode.… read more→ cool domain & blog name generators for your website 2019 november 13, 2019 vishnu tools 2 comments looking to start a blog but can't come up with a name for it? these blog name generators will help you to find a short and catchy name for your blog alongside domain name for it. a rose, by any… read more→ 25 beautiful blogs using brixton wordpress theme 2019 june 21, 2019 vishnu inspiration 0 comments brixton is the third best selling wordpress blog theme on themeforest in 2015. it is a perfect platform for sharing stories, experiences and news, and a reader can spend many pleasant hours on the blog. the design is creative, almost… read more→ 30 neat & popular websites using visual composer wordpress plugin 2019 june 19, 2019 vishnu inspiration 2 comments a page builder is an indispensable tool for a website developer (especially newbies). it helps in figuring out the layout of a website and determine which component goes into which slot. it is also useful in preparing what can be… read more→ 30 marvelous websites using woocommerce ecommerce plugin for wordpress 2019 june 19, 2019 vishnu inspiration 0 comments got a product to sell or a service to offer? whether it’s to the local community or the world, on-line stores are the easiest way to introduce a product or service. one source is capable of displaying all information about… read more→ 30 top websites & blogs that are powered by wordpress june 19, 2019 vishnu inspiration 22 comments wordpress is one of the most user-friendly content management systems, especially for the non-tech savvy. i've boasted on several occasions that you can create wordpress sites and handle a reasonably high amount of traffic. apart from its remarkable user friendliness,… read more→ 25 beautiful and popular blogs built with wordpress 2019 june 14, 2019 vishnu inspiration 11 comments we live in a tech-savvy world where the spoken word is no longer the only means of communication. many forms of media have taken over, and one among them is blogging. blogging is a platform for anyone who wants to… read more→ page 1 page 2 page 3 next disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×