got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos fashion smashion featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... vote: who was best dressed at the 2020 grammys?? home › grammys › vote: who was best dressed at the 2020 grammys?? just like that, music’s biggest night has come and gone! while the grammys had its fair share of snubs and surprises, those who were nominated certainly turned heads on sunday night! related: grammys 2020 — the complete winner list! between lizzo and ariana grande‘s grand gowns, there was plenty of drama on the red carpet! and just because dua lipa opted for a silky number didn’t mean she was looking her best! take a look (below) to see who else was looking good as hell last night! plus, up and downvote your faves to find out who was on top! [image via adriana m. barraza/wenn & wenn/avalon] related posts legendary country music artist kenny rogers dead at 81 demi lovato opens up about being ‘super nervous’ to come out to her parents: ‘i just felt overwhelmed’ noah cyrus & machine gun kelly spark romance rumors after pda-filled appearance at grammys after party! nick jonas acknowledges what was in his teeth during grammys performance — oops! click click click next article next article jan 27, 2020 7:02am pdt share this categories alicia keys ariana grande bebe rexha best dressed bts camila cabello cocoperez dua lipa fashion smashion grammys lizzo photos! priyanka chopra red carpet view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy