got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos play with perez featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... vote: is holding hands cheating? home › justin timberlake › vote: is holding hands cheating? justin timberlake didn’t have a great weekend down in the big easy! just a few days ago, as we’ve been reporting, pictures surfaced of the (married!) man of the woods performer getting uncomfortably handsy with single costar alisha wainwright, with whom he’s currently filming palmer down in new orleans. the pair was at a bourbon street bar with fellow cast and crew members when paparazzi pics and video caught the two of ’em getting very touchy-feely throughout the night. related: justin’s team is saying what about the incident?!?! well, now timberlake and wife jessica biel are dealing with the inevitable public fallout from the now-published photo and video evidence, which really doesn’t make the social network star look good. amid the controversy itself, though — and not to mention all the chatter on social media — we got to thinking about jt’s actions, and whether they technically constitute cheating. it’s not sex, obviously, but it still seems way out of line, no?! well, you tell us! vote (below) on whether you think holding hands is cheating: as you know, biel and timberlake have long been one of hollywood’s most successful high profile couples. the pair has been together for about 11 years (!), first dating on and off for several years after they met at a party in 2007. eventually, in 2012, they were married in a memorable ceremony in the italian countryside. now, they share four-year-old son silas together, as well. the two haven’t been shy about sharing their love for each other on social media, either, and by all accounts things between them had been going as well as ever ahead of this controversy. now, they have to deal with the aftermath of one of the most significant recent hiccups in their relationship, after what had been remarkably smooth sailing for some time both before and after the birth of their son in 2015. related: justin hints at giving up music for good — would he really do it?! so there you have it, perezcious readers. do u have any more thoughts or opinions on the matter?! can justin and jessica survive all this new hand-holding drama, or will it prove to be too much to handle?? and how pissed are y’all at justin for doing something so thoughtless and stupid?? what about wainwright — how much responsibility does she bear having been an apparently consensual part of this controversy? share all of your opinions on the matter with us in the comments (below)!!! [image via apega/fayesvision/wenn] related posts justin timberlake talks being unable to ‘erase’ the past: ‘you can improve the next path’ justin timberlake is craving ‘some alone time’ with jessica biel on a ‘beach vacation’ jessica biel gets birthday love from justin timberlake — after being spotted without her wedding ring over the weekend! coronavirus! beyonce’s diva ways at kobe bryant’s memorial! ariana grande slammed by pete davidson! and…| perez hilton click click click next article next article nov 26, 2019 10:35am pdt share this categories controversy film flickers jessica biel justin timberlake love line oops! play with perez polls view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy