bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr next-gen vps hosting our virtual private servers are built from the ground up using all ssd storage. enjoy increased power, flexibility, and control for your websites. choose plan standard ca$26.81/mo* normally ca$40.23 select 2 cores 30 gb ssd storage 2 gb ram 1 tb bandwidth 1 ip address enhanced ca$40.23/mo* normally ca$80.46 select 2 cores 60 gb ssd storage 4 gb ram 2 tb bandwidth 2 ip addresses ultimate ca$80.46/mo* normally ca$160.94 select 4 cores 120 gb ssd storage 8 gb ram 3 tb bandwidth 2 ip addresses features additional features optional features raising the bar unprecedented features bring remarkable power to everyone. free domain name for 1st year one year of domain registration is included with each new vps. after the initial year, the domain can be renewed at market price. 30-day money-back guarantee if you are unhappy for any reason within the first 30 days of service, you can cancel for a full refund of hosting fees; restrictions apply. 24/7 support our team is specially trained to not only solve technical issues, but to help you with all aspects of getting online. call us at any time. free ssl certificate an ssl provides a secure connection to your website, allows for ecommerce, and protects personal information for added security. root access for advanced users, our enhanced cpanel control panel offers full access to centos, giving you complete control of your server. extreme performance using open source technology, like openstack and kvm, we offer vps that is both powerful and easy to use. and, by building our servers with state-of-the-art components, we unlock truly breakthrough speed. instant provisioning get up and running in seconds. where most vps hosting solutions take hours or days to activate, we designed our vps servers to provision immediately. use your server the very second you need it. guaranteed resources by utilizing only high-performance components, your websites always perform at optimal levels. and thanks to our implementation of kvm hypervisor, your resources are guaranteed to be available at all times. dynamic resources add additional storage on the fly. with our enhanced cpanel, our server expansions are competitively priced and enabled without requiring admin assistance. coming soon: additional cpu and ram. enhanced control panel every vps configuration includes our improved cpanel interface. it features everything found in our shared solution, along with special tools for vps management and whm control. more features choose a plan powerful, flexible hosting our customizable and scalable platform delivers everything your website needs. multi-server management need more than one server? you can add more vps, or even shared and dedicated hosting services to your account and effortlessly manage everything in one place. access control create passwords that grant access to specific aspects of your account. issue one for ownership information, one for server administration, and/or one master password for everything file management use file transfer protocol (ftp) to upload, download, or modify files on your virtual server. create as many ftp accounts as you'd like. advanced capabilities our vps servers are designed from the ground up to support everything you could need, like secure shell (ssh) access, server-side includes, log file access and web-based managers for files, databases, and email. customize your own .htaccess files, cron jobs, and php.ini files. database management easily organize, edit, and manage databases directly on the server with our custom-designed database manager. more features choose a plan optional add-ons enhance your account with marketing, security, email upgrades, and more. additional resources instantly add storage to your dedicated server without requiring any delay or work by our administration team. domain privacy + protection help to prevent identity theft, spam, and phishing attacks by masking the personal information associated with your domain name. receive sms alerts (message and data rates may apply) for changes to your domain and avoid domain blacklists with domain privacy + protection. sitelock defend your websites against attacks and malware by detecting and fixing vulnerabilities and threats before they cause problems. choose a plan experts are standing by we know cloud technology inside and out. after all, we built it. get help and advice from our vps team anytime. 24/7 855-738-8839 chat frequently asked questions what is vps hosting? virtual private server hosting, aka vps hosting, is a website hosting environment that allows for resources such as ram and cpu to be dedicated to your account. this is achieved by virtualizing a dedicated server and splitting the resources amongst the users on that server. what are vps hosting benefits? users are guaranteed the resources on their vps web hosting account. this means that your account will always be allocated the set amount of ram, cpu, and disk space you've chosen regardless of what other users on the server are doing. this allows for greater stability and performance of your website. you also do not share the operating system with any other users, providing better security for your website files. what is the difference between shared vs vps hosting? users of shared hosting all share the resources on the server their websites are on. there is no guarantee of ram or cpu with shared hosting. shared hosting also does not provide full root access to the server, as opposed to vps package where users are given full root access to perform commands and make configuration changes to their hosting environment. how do i get started with vps hosting? getting started with vps hosting is easy with bluehost as your vps hosting provider. simply choose from our standard, enhanced, or ultimate vps hosting packages based on the amount of resources your website needs and follow the sign up instructions. once you have an account, you can easily upgrade to more resources from within your customer dashboard. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 855-503-0450 international - +1 801-765-9400 vps hosting solutions starting at ca$26.81/month* get started × free domain policy if you register a domain with bluehost when signing up for a hosting account, there is a domain fee that is non-refundable. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. regardless of the status of your hosting service, you'll be free to manage it, transfer it after any required lock periods, or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you elect to extend it. * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. * 30-day money-back guarantee does not extend to domain names. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.