live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → vps hosting dedicated control & functionality in a scalable hosting environment! snappy 2000 now 75% off! 2 gb ram 2 cores cpu 120 gb disk space 1.5 tb bandwidth starting at $19.95/mo* buy now! snappy 4000 now 75% off! 4 gb ram 2 cores cpu 165 gb disk space 2 tb bandwidth starting at $29.95/mo* buy now! snappy 8000 now 73% off! 8 gb ram 4 cores cpu 240 gb disk space 3 tb bandwidth starting at $39.95/mo* buy now! got questions? we can help. call us now at (855) 684-8171(855) 684-8171 or request a call back features compare all plans faqs complete customization without the expense full root access allows total control over your hosting environment, including custom installs and configuration with your virtual private server hosting the completely autonomous virtual server is fully allocated to your site vps hosting has all the benefits of dedicated resources without the cost of a dedicated server increased reliability with secure vps hosting multiple layers of network security and several bandwidth providers are utilized to ensure maximized server reliability from your vps hosting provider all virtual private servers are housed in a state-of-the-art data center featuring redundant power and hvac units a raid 10 disk configuration provides maximum data protection fully scalable to grow with you custom vps hosting scales up at the click of a button to easily add resources as your website grows in audience or complexity easy scalability means never paying for more resources than you actually need start small and grow your hosting along with your business with our vps hosting services vps hosting features flexible software options full root access gives you more control over your environment, allowing for custom script or application installs on your virtual private server. advanced functionality host unlimited domains, create unlimited sub domains, email addresses, databases, ftp accounts, and private nameservers with our easily managed vps hosting. powerful hardware we work with industry leaders like intel and amd to continually evaluate our vps platform to maintain optimal performance. our packages are among the fastest vps hosting available. award-winning support we are here for you 24/7/365 via phone and live chat to assist with any questions you may have regarding your virtual private server hosting plan. full suite of tools all vps hosting plans include website development tools, thousands of free website templates, a powerful script installer, and much more! weekly off-site backups helping to ensure your data remains safe, we automatically perform a courtesy off-site backup of your private server data each week. plans for everyone. get started today! snappy 2000 $19.95/mo* buy now! included with hosting cpu 2 cores ram 2 gb disk space 120 gb bandwith 1.5 tb ip addresses 2 ips advanced server features full root access (64-bit) optional cpanel with whm control panel apache web server (must be installed by semi-managed plans) supports: mysql, php, perl, python (django), ruby (on rails), ffmpeg multiple layers of security free ip table firewall centralized ddos protection secured vps firewall cutting edge server hardware supermicro servers intel processors fault-tolerant raid disk arrays top of the line network state-of-the-art data center with backup power generators and hvac units gigabit uplink with a guaranteed 20mbit connection fully redundant network with no single point of failure multiple bandwidth providers (abovenet, att, comcast, global crossing, level (3), ntt) snappy 4000 $29.95/mo* buy now! included with hosting cpu 2 cores ram 4 gb disk space 165 gb bandwith 2 tb ip addresses 2 ips advanced server features full root access (64-bit) optional cpanel with whm control panel apache web server (must be installed by semi-managed plans) supports: mysql, php, perl, python (django), ruby (on rails), ffmpeg multiple layers of security free ip table firewall centralized ddos protection secured vps firewall cutting edge server hardware supermicro servers intel processors fault-tolerant raid disk arrays top of the line network state-of-the-art data center with backup power generators and hvac units gigabit uplink with a guaranteed 20mbit connection fully redundant network with no single point of failure multiple bandwidth providers (abovenet, att, comcast, global crossing, level (3), ntt) snappy 8000 $39.95/mo* buy now! included with hosting cpu 4 cores ram 8 gb disk space 240 gb bandwith 3 tb ip addresses 2 ips advanced server features full root access (64-bit) optional cpanel with whm control panel apache web server (must be installed by semi-managed plans) supports: mysql, php, perl, python (django), ruby (on rails), ffmpeg multiple layers of security free ip table firewall centralized ddos protection secured vps firewall cutting edge server hardware supermicro servers intel processors fault-tolerant raid disk arrays top of the line network state-of-the-art data center with backup power generators and hvac units gigabit uplink with a guaranteed 20mbit connection fully redundant network with no single point of failure multiple bandwidth providers (abovenet, att, comcast, global crossing, level (3), ntt) already a hostgator customer? upgrade now already a hostgator customer? upgrade now snappy 2000 $19.95/mo* buy now! snappy 4000 $29.95/mo* buy now! snappy 8000 $39.95/mo* buy now! power at the right price with vps snappy 2000 $19.95/mo* buy now! snappy 4000 $29.95/mo* buy now! snappy 8000 $39.95/mo* buy now! cpu 2 cores 2 cores 4 cores ram 2 gb 4 gb 8 gb disk space 120 gb 165 gb 240 gb bandwith 1.5 tb 2 tb 3 tb ip addresses 2 ips 2 ips 2 ips advanced server features full root access (64-bit) optional cpanel with whm control panel apache web server (must be installed by semi-managed plans) supports: mysql, php, perl, python (django), ruby (on rails), ffmpeg multiple layers of security free ip table firewall centralized ddos protection secured vps firewall cutting edge server hardware supermicro servers intel processors fault-tolerant raid disk arrays top of the line network state-of-the-art data center with backup power generators and hvac units gigabit uplink with a guaranteed 20mbit connection fully redundant network with no single point of failure multiple bandwidth providers (abovenet, att, comcast, global crossing, level (3), ntt) frequently asked questions when should i go with a virtual private server (vps) server? a vps server is an excellent choice when you are looking for more control/flexibility around your website. whether it is the ability to scale resources to meet the needs of your growing business or the ability to install a custom application or custom configuration that makes your site run just the way you want. will my vps perform better than my shared account does? this answer will vary based on your site and the vps option you select. the entry level vps nodes are targeted towards customers looking for more flexibility and will likely not result in a performance improvement, while the higher end vps nodes should provide both flexibility and performance improvements. will you migrate my site for me? hostgator offers unlimited free cpanel to cpanel migrations to our vps offering. for sites that require a manual migration due to complexity or a different control panel, we support up to 90 migrations based on the vps package you select. what type of technical skills do i need to manage a vps server? for our fully managed vps server we include an easy to use custom cpanel control panel that offers many administrative tools but basic knowledge of file transfer and application management are beneficial. our semi-managed offering does not include the control panel and will require a more in depth technical expertise to keep your website running smoothly. how many emails can i send out per hour from my vps server? on a vps server, there is no default setting within cpanel on outbound email per hour but we strongly recommend that you set it to 500 emails per hour to avoid getting your ip blacklisted by an errant or compromised script within your site. experience the power of a vps! our industry-leading experts are here to assist 24/7/365, every step of the way. call now at (855) 684-8171(855) 684-8171. ×close contact request name* phone number* email address* best time to call time of day morning afternoon evening *required fields *prices reflect discount on first term, vat not included. experience the power of a vps! starting at only $19.95/mo* get started! hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.