programs back to menu programming and development back to menu programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence back to menu programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing back to menu programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science back to menu programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business back to menu programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems back to menu programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career back to menu career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise back to menu overview our approach solution about us sign in get started programs programming and development programs front end web developer full stack web developer java developer cloud developer cloud devops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms data engineer introduction to programming ios developer react blockchain developer android developer android basics artificial intelligence programs ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow ai product manager intro to machine learning with pytorch data structures and algorithms machine learning engineer ai programming with python deep learning artificial intelligence for trading computer vision natural language processing deep reinforcement learning artificial intelligence cloud computing programs cloud developer cloud devops engineer data science programs data streaming data visualization data structures and algorithms programming for data science with r data engineer marketing analytics data analyst predictive analytics for business data scientist business analytics programming for data science with python business programs product manager ai for business leaders ux designer ai product manager data visualization marketing analytics predictive analytics for business digital marketing business analytics autonomous systems programs sensor fusion engineer c++ data structures and algorithms self driving car engineer intro to self-driving cars robotics software engineer flying car and autonomous flight engineer career full catalog career career prep get hired hire our grads student success become a mentor become an instructor for enterprise overview our approach solution about us sign in get started new! nanodegree program vr mobile 360 become a vr developer with mobile 360 combine a specific focus on mobile 360 media with learning core unity game engine and c# skills, and advance your vr expertise. in collaboration with we are not taking enrollments at this time we have many other nanodegree programs focused on web development and programming skills, which are always relevant to a vr career. please explore should take a look at those offerings in our school of programming. school of programming all our programs include real-world projects from industry experts with real world projects and immersive content built in partnership with top tier companies, you’ll master the tech skills companies want. technical mentor support our knowledgeable mentors guide your learning and are focused on answering your questions, motivating you and keeping you on track. personal career coach and career services you’ll have access to career coaching sessions, interview prep advice, and resume and online professional profile reviews to help you grow in your career. flexible learning program get a custom learning plan tailored to fit your busy life. learn at your own pace and reach your personal goals on the schedule that works best for you. effective & engaging content advance your mobile 360 skills through interactive content like quizzes, videos, and hands-on projects. our learn-by-doing approach is the most effective way to learn vr developer skills. beneficial and supportive project review advance quickly and successfully through the curriculum with the support of expert reviewers whose detailed feedback will ensure you master all the right skills. engaging community join a community of learners committed to shared learning goals. our graduates consistently cite community as one of the most valuable features of their nanodegree program. build a portfolio of resume-worthy projects build real projects that demonstrate your skills mastery. these projects will populate a portfolio that can be shared with prospective employers. our hiring partners regularly review these portfolios when seeking qualified candidates. learn with the best christian plagemann curriculum developer christian co-founded the vr team at google, started the vr nanodegree program at udacity, and developed this vr curriculum together with our partners and the team. matt sonic product lead matt is a serial entrepreneur, artist, engineer, and founder of sfvr. his specialties are: virtual reality, computer graphics, interaction design, and high-performance programming. austin mccasland content developer austin is a virtual reality user experience designer. his background is in interactive sculptural new media, and he has a masters degree in human-computer interaction from carnegie mellon university. suzanne leibrick content developer suzanne is an independent vr designer. she is also a cofounder of arvr academy, a non-profit that teaches women vr and ar development at low cost, and aims to create gender parity in the vr and ar industry in 5 years. what you will learn syllabus vr mobile 360 master the latest tools and technologies, and put your tech skills to work in the exciting field of vr! learn from industry experts like google, unity, and htc, and become a virtual reality developer.focus on the fundamentals of using the unity game engine to build beautiful and performant vr scenes, and learn how to make your vr experience more dynamic and responsive by using c# programming in the unity interface. here is where you are transformed from vr generalist to in-demand specialist as a mobile 360 developer. learn vr design best-practices for proper ergonomics, user testing, interface design, and more. dive deep into mobile performance & 360 media. hide details 4 months to complete prerequisite knowledge intermediate computer skills, meaning you are comfortable with file management, installing software, working with zip archives, etc. working knowledge of unity. beginning to intermediate experience with object-oriented programming.see detailed requirements. vr design learn vr design fundamentals such as ergonomics, user testing, and interface design, and build a solid foundation to approach any vr design task.puzzler mobile performance from mitigating heat issues to analyzing inefficient algorithms, learn the three most important considerations in mobile vr: performance, performance, and performance!tic-tac-toe 360 media pre-production in this project, you'll do everything you need to prepare for a 360 shoot. you'll write the script, produce the storyboard, and then finally plan the logistics surrounding the shoot. by the end, you'll be prepared to make a great 360 film.the protagonist's journey 360 media production master 360 video stitching and learn audio capture options. edit with adobe premiere, and use unity for interactions, effects, and controls.the storyteller’s revenge mobile 360 capstone create a vr project of your choosing, using any hardware, then complete a series of vr challenges, winning points as you advance towards your goal.mobile 360 capstone need to prepare? you'll need to understand unity scene creation, basic 3d math, how to create and deploy vr applications using cardboard, and how to write c# scripts for unity. the partnership with udacity is central to our efforts to disseminate critical information on samsung technologies to the developer community. within this framework, the udacity vr developer nanodegree program is an excellent vehicle to engage developers and strengthen the gear vr ecosystem.— mihai pohuntu, vp, emerging platforms, samsung electronics america program details program overview - why should i take this program? why should i enroll? mobile 360 vr experiences represent some of the most compelling and cutting-edge content being created today, and in this program, you’ll learn the skills, tools, techniques, and concepts necessary to start creating your own mobile 360 vr content. adding these specialized skills to your vr toolkit is an excellent way to advance your career in a field that offers the opportunity to combine creative and technical skills in unique ways. plus, demand for skilled vr developers and designers is growing at an unprecedented rate—vr developer job openings are up 800% year-over-year—and there has never been a better team to enter the field. what jobs will this program prepare me for? we believe that vr will power transformative change across a number of industries. graduates of this program will be valuable additions to any team working in the domains of gaming, web development, app development, social media, film, e-commerce, and marketing. opportunities also exist in healthcare, architecture, finance, retail, media, advertising, education, and more. specific roles include: ar/vr developers, unity developers, web, android & ios developers, 3d graphics programmers, game designers, user experience and interaction designers, graphic designers, 3d artists, interactive media developers, and creative directors. how do i know if this program is right for me? if you are interested in vr technology, have working knowledge of a programming language like c#, and want to advance a career in virtual reality, this is the perfect program for you! vr developers who possess advanced experience creating mobile 360 content are especially in demand, making this program an excellent choice for any vr developer eager to build a great career in an advanced field. what is the difference between the vr foundations, the vr mobile 360 developer, and the vr high immersion developer nanodegree programs? the vr foundations program is an entry-level program. you’ll learn the core skills, tools, techniques, and concepts you’ll need to pursue more advanced studies, and get on the path to a career as a vr developer. there are no prerequisites required to enroll. the vr mobile 360 developer and vr high immersion developer nanodegree programs are both advanced, career-ready programs. to enroll, you must meet certain prerequisites, and have either completed our vr foundations program, or acquired equivalent skills and experience. each of these two advanced programs focuses on a different specialization within the larger field of vr, and which you should choose is dependent on your ultimate learning and career goals, and the kind of creative content you want to develop. enrollment and admission do i need to apply? what are the admission criteria? no. this nanodegree program accepts all applicants regardless of experience and specific background. what are the prerequisites for enrollment? intermediate computer skills, meaning you are comfortable with file management, installing software, working with zip archives, etc. working knowledge of unity. beginning to intermediate experience with object-oriented programming. tuition and term of program how is this nanodegree program structured? the vr mobile 360 nanodegree program is comprised of one (1) term of four (4) months. the term has fixed start and end dates. for each project, you will have the opportunity to apply the skills you’ve learned in the lessons. each project will be reviewed by one of the qualified project reviewers in the udacity reviewer network. your reviewer will give you detailed feedback on your work and let you know where your project needs improvement if necessary. if you do not pass the project, you will be asked to submit again until you pass in order to successfully complete the term. in addition, students in this program receive career services to support their job-finding process. how long is this nanodegree program? access to this nanodegree program runs for the period noted in the term length section above and the faqs. see the terms of use and faqs for other policies around the terms of access to our nanodegree programs. how much does the program cost? the full program consists of comprised of one (1) term of four (4) months at a cost of usd 999. payment is due before the term begins. can i switch my start date? can i get a refund? please see the udacity nanodegree program faqs found here for policies on enrollment in our programs. i have graduated from the vr mobile 360 program but i want to keep learning. where should i go from here? congratulations! if you'd like to continue pursuing vr development, please see our vr high-immersion program. software and hardware - what do i need for this program? what software and versions will i need in this program? for this nanodegree program, you will need to the minimum equipment requirements outlined here: https://www.udacity.com/tech-requirementsshow less featured programs product manager ai for business leaders intro to machine learning with tensorflow data streaming ux designer java developer ai product manager sensor fusion engineer data visualization cloud developer cloud dev ops engineer c++ data structures and algorithms marketing analytics data engineer android basics android developer ios developer business analytics data analyst front end web developer full stack web developer intro to programming intro to machine learning with pytorch machine learning engineer predictive analytics for business programming for data science with python react only at udacity artificial intelligence deep learning digital marketing flying car and autonomous flight engineer intro to self-driving cars machine learning engineer robotics software engineer self-driving car engineer udacity schools school of artificial intelligence school of autonomous systems school of business school of data science school of programming school of cloud computing resources catalog career resource center career services hire talent get hired student success udacity talks scholarships what is ai? talk to an advisor programs veterans georgia tech company about blog in the news jobs become an instructor udacity intersect enterprise udacity for enterprise hire talent support contact us help and faq service status tech requirements © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. legal & privacy site map united states china "nanodegree" is a registered trademark of udacity. © 2011–2020 udacity, inc. udacity is not an accredited university and we don't confer traditional degrees. udacity nanodegree programs represent collaborations with our industry partners who help us develop our content and who hire many of our program graduates. we use cookies to optimize site functionality, personalize content and ads, and give you the best possible experience. learn more accept cookie preferences