kottke.org ♥ home of fine hypertext products homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! aboutarchivesshopmembership! aboutarchivesmembers! kottke.org posts about waffle house see also... restaurants food even waffle house is closed for covid-19 posted by jason kottke mar 25, 2020 when america wants to know how bad things are in a crisis, they look not to the president or fema, they look to waffle house. the “waffle house index,” first coined by federal emergency management agency director w. craig fugate, is based on the extent of operations and service at the restaurant following a storm and indicates how prepared a business is in case of a natural disaster. for example, if a waffle house store is open and offering a full menu, the index is green. if it is open but serving from a limited menu, it’s yellow. when the location has been forced to close, the index is red. because waffle house is well prepared for disasters, kouvelis said, it’s rare for the index to hit red. for example, the joplin, mo., waffle house survived the tornado and remained open. at last count (as of 10:42am on 3/25), 418 waffle house restaurants across the country were closed, an unprecedented event. the remainder, from what i can gather from social media and news reports, are operating on a carry-out basis only. kudos to them for doing the right thing in trying to keep their employees and patrons safe. more about... covid-19 food restaurants waffle house ads via carbon how does waffle house stay open during disasters? posted by jason kottke sep 03, 2019 waffle house is prepared to make you breakfast at all hours of the day in any kind of weather. the restaurant chain is so widely respected for its severe weather preparedness that a former director of fema started using their stores as an indicator of how bad a particular storm or disaster was: the “waffle house index,” first coined by federal emergency management agency director w. craig fugate, is based on the extent of operations and service at the restaurant following a storm and indicates how prepared a business is in case of a natural disaster. for example, if a waffle house store is open and offering a full menu, the index is green. if it is open but serving from a limited menu, it’s yellow. when the location has been forced to close, the index is red. because waffle house is well prepared for disasters, kouvelis said, it’s rare for the index to hit red. for example, the joplin, mo., waffle house survived the tornado and remained open. annie blanks recently visited the “waffle house storm center” in advance of hurricane dorian’s predicted landfall in florida. when any of the stores are in danger of being hit by severe weather, so-called “jump teams” are activated to be ready to deploy wherever needed. jump teams are made up of waffle house contractors, construction workers, gas line experts, restaurant operators, food providers and other associates who are assembled and ready to go wherever needed at a moment’s notice. their purpose is to help relieve local waffle house operators and employees who need to evacuate, be with their families or tend to their homes when a storm hits, and help make sure restaurants are able to open quickly after a storm or stay open during a storm. on twitter, blanks shared a photo of the four different pared-down menus that waffle house prepares for disasters. (via @lauravw) more about... annie blanks business food restaurants waffle house the waffle house index posted by jason kottke jul 23, 2015 the waffle house index is an informal metric used by fema administrator craig fugate to evaluate how bad a storm is. basically, whether the waffle house in town is open or serving a limited menu can tell you something about how bad the storm was and how much recovery assistance is necessary. if you get there and the waffle house is closed? that’s really bad. that’s where you go to work. see also the economist’s big mac index and other odd economic indicators. (via @naveen) more about... economics fema food odd economic indicators restaurants waffle house the end of the waffle house posted by jason kottke nov 05, 2013 from the indiana daily student, the last days in the life of a waffle house in bloomington, indiana. most of the students had stopped visiting years ago. the smoking ban forced out the puffers. many of the regulars grew so old that they died or went to nursing homes. once bud decided to close, it all slipped away even faster. some of his staff had taken other jobs. the gumballs emptied out of the shiny red machine. no one bothered to mark the white board with the daily special. they would close at precisely 3 p.m. bud checked his watch, ignoring the broken wall clock, its hands frozen for more years than he could remember, stuck in time. it suited the place. care of google maps, here’s the waffle house before it got torn down. (via unlikely words) more about... food restaurants waffle house the waffle house index posted by jason kottke sep 01, 2011 how do you know a natural disaster is really bad? the waffle house is closed. when a hurricane makes landfall, the head of the federal emergency management agency relies on a couple of metrics to assess its destructive power. first, there is the well-known saffir-simpson wind scale. then there is what he calls the “waffle house index.” green means the restaurant is serving a full menu, a signal that damage in an area is limited and the lights are on. yellow means a limited menu, indicating power from a generator, at best, and low food supplies. red means the restaurant is closed, a sign of severe damage in the area or unsafe conditions. “if you get there and the waffle house is closed?” fema administrator craig fugate has said. “that’s really bad. that’s where you go to work.” (via @buzz) more about... restaurants waffle house kottke.org, loving you since 1998homeaboutarchives + tagsshopmembership! homeaboutarchivesshopmembership! homeaboutarchives