home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads the body politic electric: walt whitman on women’s centrality to democracy the best of brain pickings 2018 favorite books of 2018 labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks walt whitman on democracy and optimism as a mighty form of resistance “i can conceive of no better service… than boldly exposing the weakness, liabilities and infinite corruptions of democracy.” by maria popova “progress is never permanent, will always be threatened, must be redoubled, restated and reimagined if it is to survive,” zadie smith wrote in her spectacular essay on optimism and despair. the illusion of permanent progress inflicts a particularly damning strain of despair as we witness the disillusioning undoing of triumphs of democracy and justice generations in the making — despair preventable only by taking a wider view of history in order to remember that democracy advances in fits and starts, in leaps and backward steps, but advances nonetheless, on timelines exceeding any individual lifetime. amid our current atmosphere of presentism bias and extreme narrowing of perspective, it is not merely difficult but downright countercultural to resist the ahistorical panic by taking such a telescopic view — lucid optimism that may be our most unassailable form of resistance to the corruptions and malfunctions of democracy. that is what walt whitman (may 31, 1819–march 26, 1892) insisted on again and again in specimen days (public library) — the splendid collection of his prose fragments, letters, and diary entries that gave us his wisdom on the wisdom of trees, the singular power of music, how art enhances life, and what makes life worth living. walt whitman (library of congress) shortly before his sixtieth birthday and a decade after issuing his immensely prescient admonition that “america, if eligible at all to downfall and ruin, is eligible within herself, not without,” whitman writs under the heading “democracy in the new world”: i can conceive of no better service in the united states, henceforth, by democrats of thorough and heart-felt faith, than boldly exposing the weakness, liabilities and infinite corruptions of democracy. having lived and saved lives through the civil war, having seen the swell of “vast crops of poor, desperate, dissatisfied, nomadic, miserably-waged populations,” having witnessed the corrosion of idealism and the collapse of democratic values into corruption and complacency, whitman still faces a dispiriting landscape with a defiant and irrepressible optimism — our mightiest and most countercultural act of courage, then and now and always: though i think i fully comprehend the absence of moral tone in our current politics and business, and the almost entire futility of absolute and simple honor as a counterpoise against the enormous greed for worldly wealth, with the trickeries of gaining it, all through society in our day, i still do not share the depression and despair on the subject which i find possessing many good people. zooming out of the narrow focus of his cultural moment — as we would be well advised to do with ours — whitman takes a telescopic perspective of time, progress, and social change, and considers what it really takes to win the future: the advent of america, the history of the past century, has been the first general aperture and opening-up to the average human commonalty, on the broadest scale, of the eligibilities to wealth and worldly success and eminence, and has been fully taken advantage of; and the example has spread hence, in ripples, to all nations. to these eligibilities — to this limitless aperture, the race has tended, en-masse, roaring and rushing and crude, and fiercely, turbidly hastening — and we have seen the first stages, and are now in the midst of the result of it all, so far. but there will certainly ensue other stages, and entirely different ones. in nothing is there more evolution than the american mind. soon, it will be fully realized that ostensible wealth and money-making, show, luxury, &c., imperatively necessitate something beyond — namely, the sane, eternal moral and spiritual-esthetic attributes, elements… soon, it will be understood clearly, that the state cannot flourish, (nay, cannot exist,) without those elements. they will gradually enter into the chyle of sociology and literature. they will finally make the blood and brawn of the best american individualities of both sexes. three years later, and ten presidencies before a ruthless government began assaulting and exploiting nature as a resource for commercial and political gain, whitman revisits the subject under the heading “nature and democracy—mortality”: american democracy, in its myriad personalities, in factories, work-shops, stores, offices — through the dense streets and houses of cities, and all their manifold sophisticated life — must either be fibred, vitalized, by regular contact with out-door light and air and growths, farm-scenes, animals, fields, trees, birds, sun-warmth and free skies, or it will morbidly dwindle and pale. we cannot have grand races of mechanics, work people, and commonalty, (the only specific purpose of america,) on any less terms. i conceive of no flourishing and heroic elements of democracy in the united states, or of democracy maintaining itself at all, without the nature-element forming a main part — to be its health-element and beauty-element — to really underlie the whole politics, sanity, religion and art of the new world. specimen days remains one of the most timelessly insightful books i have ever encountered. complement this particular portion with iris murdoch on why art is essential for democracy, rebecca solnit on lucid optimism in dark times, and amanda palmer and neil gaiman’s animated tribute to leonard cohen’s anthem to democracy, then revisit whitman on the essence of happiness and his advice on the building blocks of character. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published july 26, 2018 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2018/07/26/walt-whitman-specimen-days-democracy/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturephilosophypoliticswalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.