home about contact donating = loving newsletter view full site every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 need to cancel a recurring donation? go here. archives browse by subjectculturebooksartpsychologysciencephilosophyhistorydesignillustrationchildren's booksall subjects surprise me sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: about contact support subscribe newsletter rss connect facebook twitter instagram tumblr also the universe in verse art prints bookshelf sounds bites figuring a velocity of being favorite reads the best of brain pickings 2019 favorite books of 2019 favorite children’s books of 2019 how kepler invented science fiction and defended his mother in a witchcraft trial while revolutionizing our understanding of the universe 13 life-learnings from 13 years of brain pickings emily dickinson’s electric love letters to susan gilbert rebecca solnit’s lovely letter to children about how books solace, empower, and transform us fixed vs. growth: the two basic mindsets that shape our lives in praise of the telescopic perspective: a reflection on living through turbulent times a stoic’s key to peace of mind: seneca on the antidote to anxiety the courage to be yourself: e.e. cummings on art, life, and being unafraid to feel the writing of “silent spring”: rachel carson and the culture-shifting courage to speak inconvenient truth to power timeless advice on writing: the collected wisdom of great writers a rap on race: margaret mead and james baldwin’s rare conversation on forgiveness and the difference between guilt and responsibility the science of stress and how our emotions affect our susceptibility to burnout and disease mary oliver on what attention really means and her moving elegy for her soul mate rebecca solnit on hope in dark times, resisting the defeatism of easy despair, and what victory really means for movements of social change the lonely city: adventures in the art of being alone see more related reads walt whitman, bohemian dandy: the story of america’s first gay bar and its creative coterie the body politic electric: walt whitman on women’s centrality to democracy anne gilchrist’s beautiful and heartbreaking love letters to walt whitman labors of love famous writers' sleep habits vs. literary productivity, visualized 7 life-learnings from 7 years of brain pickings, illustrated anaïs nin on love, hand-lettered by debbie millman anaïs nin on real love, illustrated by debbie millman susan sontag on love: illustrated diary excerpts susan sontag on art: illustrated diary excerpts albert camus on happiness and love, illustrated by wendy macnaughton the holstee manifesto the silent music of the mind: remembering oliver sacks walt whitman on what makes life worth living “tone your wants and tastes low down enough, and make much of negatives, and of mere daylight and the skies.” by maria popova “do you need a prod?” the poet mary oliver asked in her sublime meditation on living with maximal aliveness. “do you need a little darkness to get you going?” a paralytic prod descended upon walt whitman (may 31, 1819–march 26, 1892) in his fifty-third year when a stroke left him severely disabled. it is a peculiar kind of darkness to be so violently exiled from one’s own body — a cascade of exiles, for it forced whitman to leave his home in washington, where he had settled after his noble work as a volunteer nurse in the civil war that first taught him about the connection between the body and the spirit, and move in with his brother in new jersey. still, he kept reaching for the light as he slowly regained corporeal agency — a partial recovery he attributed wholly to being “daily in the open air,” among the trees and under the stars. but as his body healed, the experience had permanently imprinted his mind with a new consciousness. like all of our unexpected brushes with mortality, the stroke had thrust into his lap a ledger and demanded that he account for his life — for who he is, what he stands for, what he has done for the world and how he wishes to be remembered by it. as nature nursed him back to life in her embrace, whitman found himself reflecting on the most elemental questions of existence — what makes a life worth living, worth remembering? he recorded these reflections in specimen days (public library) — the sublime collection of prose fragments, letters, and journal entries that gave us whitman on the wisdom of trees and music as the profoundest expression of nature. walt whitman (library of congress) writing to a german friend on his own sixty-third birthday, a decade after his paralytic stroke, whitman reflects on what the limitations of living in a disabled body have taught him about the meaning of a full life: from to-day i enter upon my 64th year. the paralysis that first affected me nearly ten years ago, has since remain’d, with varying course — seems to have settled quietly down, and will probably continue. i easily tire, am very clumsy, cannot walk far; but my spirits are first-rate. i go around in public almost every day — now and then take long trips, by railroad or boat, hundreds of miles — live largely in the open air — am sunburnt and stout, (weigh 190) — keep up my activity and interest in life, people, progress, and the questions of the day. about two-thirds of the time i am quite comfortable. what mentality i ever had remains entirely unaffected; though physically i am a half-paralytic, and likely to be so, long as i live. but the principal object of my life seems to have been accomplish’d — i have the most devoted and ardent of friends, and affectionate relatives — and of enemies i really make no account. above all, however, whitman found vitality in the natural world — in what he so poetically called “the bracing and buoyant equilibrium of concrete outdoor nature, the only permanent reliance for sanity of book or human life.” looking back on what most helped him return to life after the stroke, whitman echoes seneca’s wisdom on calibrating our expectations for contentment and writes: the trick is, i find, to tone your wants and tastes low down enough, and make much of negatives, and of mere daylight and the skies. […] after you have exhausted what there is in business, politics, conviviality, love, and so on — have found that none of these finally satisfy, or permanently wear — what remains? nature remains; to bring out from their torpid recesses, the affinities of a man or woman with the open air, the trees, fields, the changes of seasons — the sun by day and the stars of heaven by night. “broken/hearted” by maria popova. available as a print. specimen days remains a kind of secular bible for the thinking, feeling human being. complement this particular fragment with dostoyevsky’s dream about the meaning of life, tolstoy on finding meaning when life seems meaningless, and the forgotten genius alice james — william and henry james’s brilliant sister — on how to live fully while dying, then revisit whitman on why literature is central to democracy and his timeless advice on living a vibrant and rewarding life. donating = loving every week for more than 13 years, i have been pouring tremendous time, thought, love, and resources into brain pickings, which remains free (and ad-free) and is made possible by patronage. it takes me hundreds of hours a month to research and compose, and thousands of dollars to sustain. if you find any joy and solace in this labor of love, please consider becoming a sustaining patron with a recurring monthly donation of your choosing, between a cup of tea and a good lunch. your support really matters. monthly donation ♥ $3 / month ♥ $5 / month ♥ $7 / month ♥ $10 / month ♥ $25 / month start now one-time donation you can also become a spontaneous supporter with a one-time donation in any amount: give now bitcoin donation partial to bitcoin? you can beam some bit-love my way: 197usds6asl9wdkxtgm6xawjmr5ejgqem7 sunday newsletter brain pickings has a free sunday digest of the week's most interesting and inspiring articles across art, science, philosophy, creativity, children's books, and other strands of our search for truth, beauty, and meaning. here's an example. like? claim yours: midweek newsletter also: because brain pickings is in its twelfth year and because i write primarily about ideas of a timeless character, i have decided to plunge into my vast archive every wednesday and choose from the thousands of essays one worth resurfacing and resavoring. subscribe to this free midweek pick-me-up for heart, mind, and spirit below — it is separate from the standard sunday digest of new pieces: — published december 20, 2017 — https://www.brainpickings.org/2017/12/20/walt-whitman-specimen-days-meaning-of-life/ — www.brainpickings.org print article email article share article tweet pocket filed under booksculturediariesphilosophypsychologywalt whitman view full site brain pickings participates in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn commissions by linking to amazon. in more human terms, this means that whenever you buy a book on amazon from a link on here, i receive a small percentage of its price. privacy policy.