our mission about resources journal videos offers contact 9/17/18 3:25 pm wandering log | august 2018 in august, we made it full "circle" back to the east coast, but not before enjoying denver and kansas city! it's surreal to be writing this in wompatuck state park, where we have spent many weeks camping over the past three years. we have experienced so much of the country in the past six months... we were just baking in the moab sun not long ago. being here now, though emotions are mixed, makes us feel how accessible the country really is. whenever we have a wild hair, we know we can easily go exploring. total miles wandered: 3,211 denver, co overview: we stayed in denver for a week while visiting friends. it is surprisingly difficult to find free camping anywhere near denver and the surrounding towns, like golden and boulder. we ended up parking on the street outside our friend's apartment complex while we stayed on her couch, moving dot every 24 hours. it was technically legal, though we got a fun passive-aggressive text the last day asking why we were still parked in that neighborhood. we understand; people just want to make sure you aren't sleeping in your unit. recommendations: visit red rocks amphitheater, even if just to hike around, but preferably for a concert. we did a bit of exploring, but were so busy that week that we did not see nearly as much as we wanted. here is a list of some cool districts of denver to check out if you're looking to get out of downtown. where we camped: street parking; stayed with friends. remote worker ready? yes, we had four bars of verizon cell service. kansas city, mo overview: justin hosted another workshop in kansas city, so we spent a few days in this hip midwestern city. what we love about kc is the mix of genuine midwestern charm with a small city vibe. recommendations: the power and light district is where it's at. bars, restaurants, and often free live music. see live jazz or blues at the phoenix. eat and listen to live blues at b.b.'s lawnside bbq eat kc's best bbq at q39 or joe's. where we camped: walmarts in olathe, kansas and overland park, mo remote worker ready? yes, we had four bars of verizon cell service. asheville, nc overview: asheville is hands-down one of our favorite places in the country. we got engaged and have spent a few vacations here. it just happened to be on our way to raleigh, so we happily spent a couple of days soaking up its weirdness. recommendations: visit the river arts district and take a photo with the good vibes sign. go to new belgium, sierra nevada, wicked weed, or any of the dozens of breweries in the city. visit the biltmore estate, tour the grounds, and go to their winery. for a more local vibe, go to west asheville. while you're there, grab a beer at one world brewing (on haywood rd.) and cross the street to eat dinner at zia taqueria (drool). where we camped: on a friend's property. it was pouring rain that night when we arrived and we had a "fun" time trying to turn around on a dead end gravel road. remote worker ready? yes, at least two bars of verizon cell phone service. raleigh, nc overview: we lived in raleigh for a few years and justin's family still lives here, as well as many of our dear friends. so it's always a fun time coming back! we feel like when we lived here, we did not appreciate it nearly as much. this was before we moved to boston and bought our first camper, so we still had the wild bud in us that hadn't bloomed; we were still searching for more. that being said, there is so much that this area has to offer! recommendations: explore father and son antique store and/or the weekend flea market at the nc state fairgrounds. go to poole's diner and get the mac n' cheese (enough for a meal for two!). grab a drink at raleigh times bar. eat breakfast at yellow dog bakery. take a bike ride or stroll on the tobacco trail that runs from raleigh to durham. where we camped: parked at friend's houses in wake forest and downtown raleigh. remote worker ready? yes, we had four bars of verizon cell service. buffalo, ny overview: after spending a few days with ariele's family in virginia (must sees: tour dinosaur land and browse mountain mystic company), we cruised up to buffalo for another content marketing workshop. our truck ended up dying in the parking lot of the event. ultimately, we were really fortunate to be in a safe space and for the problem to only be a failed starter. recommendations: grab a drink made with liquor distilled on site at buffalo distilling co. eat buffalo wings at gabriel's gate. visit the canadian side of niagara falls (we did not have time to do this, but will be back!) where we camped: in the parking lot of justin's event due to car troubles. remote worker ready? yes, we had four bars of verizon cell service. boston, ma overview: we don't think we've ever written about boston! we could write an entire blog post about this city and unique things to do. when we visit, we stay at wompatuck state park and hop on the ferry in hingham that takes us right into the city. recommendations: visit the north end and get dinner at pomodoro for a fantastic meal and romantic ambiance. then get a dessert at bova's bakery; our favorite is the chocolate florentine cookie and the vanilla brick. get a lobster roll at yankee lobster and a beer at harpoon. if you're still hungry, get a pretzel at harpoon brewery – it's made from their hops! go to bleacher bar for lunch when the red sox aren't playing. they have a garage door that opens up to an amazing view of fenway park. hike the 2.5 mile long freedom trail. where we camped: wompatuck state park remote worker ready? yes, we had two bars of verizon cell service. introducing our digital nomad documentary our friend and fellow wanderer, jesse, joined us for a road trip in the pacific northwest to help us document the digital nomad lifestyle. watch our short documentary below: product of the month got that ramblin' fever? our custom ramblin' man and ramblin' woman shirts, designed by the talented amanda sides of the calligraphy bar, are the perfect road trip attire. check out the styles below and click each one to shop! women's men's topics: digital nomading, full-time rving written by justin and ariele speak your mind check out our other articles 8/17/18 11:50 am wandering log | july 2018 read more 7/7/18 2:04 pm wandering log | june 2018 read more 6/5/18 12:08 pm wandering log | may 2018 read more 5/1/18 2:50 pm wandering log | april 2018 read more follow our journey keep up with us and our travels! want to live a life of adventure? transform now our mission about resources contact wild we wander llc