skip to content college info geek want to earn better grades? menu close mobile navigation menu close start here topics: studying & learning productivity career skills life skills view all articles free studying book about contact impossible list study music affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer start here topics icons new studying & learning ace your tests, hack studying, and become an academic superstar. icons new productivity get organized, become more efficient, and reclaim your time. icons new career skills learn how to network, crush interviews, and land your dream job. icons new life skills build confidence, make friends, budget your money, and more. icons new view all posts book courses icons new productivity masterclass learn how to create a system that works and reorganize your life. habit-building essentials learn how to build habits that last and become the you you've always wanted to be. listen icons new the college info geek podcast learn how to be a more effective student, even while you're doing your laundry. icons new study music playlist get a concentrated dose of focus for your ears. resources icons new tools manage your money, stay focused, and get things done. icons new college packing list show up to your next semester ready for anything. icons new essential books for students fill your library, then fill your brain. icons new merch wear shirts, drink from mugs, and have even more of our eternal gratitude. newsletter stay up to date with the cig content universe. impossible list search want to earn better grades? if you’re reading this website, you clearly care about being awesome at college. and a big part of that is getting the grades you want. however, it can be hard to know where to start when you’re looking to improve your grades. plus, i bet you have other things you’d rather do than spend hours studying each night. thankfully, it’s possible to improve your grades and spend less time studying. you just need to approach your studies the right way. in my book 10 steps to earning awesome grades (while studying less), you’ll learn how to do just that. and to thank all of you for reading and supporting the blog, i’ve decided to offer the book completely for free. to get the book, just let me know where i should send it: here’s what you’ll find within the book’s 100+ pages: getting more out of your classes – how to pay attention, get to know your professor, and stay active. taking better notes – the best note-taking systems, shorthand hacks, etc. reading more effectively – dealing with huge textbook assignments and using active reading strategies. building the optimal study environment – location, study music, apps and gear, etc. defeating procrastination – how to hack your motivation, build great habits, and make sure you get things done on time. writing better papers – research tips, how to get over writer’s block, editing strategies. that’s a sneak preview — there are four other sections waiting as well (see, i can do math). you’ll also find some of the lessons i learned as a student, plus graphics, diagrams, and links to amazing resources. i’ve worked incredibly hard on this book and can’t wait to hear what you think of it. once you get it, i’ll also send you an email each tuesday called tuesday tools and tips. in it, i’ll let you know about all the new books, apps, and other productivity resources i’ve discovered recently — and keep you up-to-date on new cig content. if you want to be extra awesome, you can share this page with friends and help them earn awesome grades too 🙂 more links about contact impossible list archive cig elsewhere youtube twitter facebook store get to work study with me ultimate study music playlist boring legal junk affiliate disclaimer and terms of use privacy policy cookie disclaimer home podcast best articles icon-courses courses search © 2020 college info geek. you’re cute.