the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop great job internet scott aukerman and pamela adlon solve the mystery of whether patrick swayze was in grease 2 you may also like news jeremy renner offers sick world a treatment it hasn't asked for with new ep, the medicine reid mccartertoday 12:26pm tv club meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit latoya fergusonyesterday 9:40pm news here's the trailer for a new crocodile dundee movie, which actually seems like a really nice thing right now britt hayeswednesday 11:50am more from g/o media read on what you need to know about your federal government relief check [updated] read on sega's new mascot is the son of sega's old mascot read on the truth of coronavirus might be worse than the conspiracy theories read on coronavirus is exposing how backward car buying is subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe randall colburn today 11:19am • filed to:film filmgrease 2patrick swayze 6 save screenshot: grease 2 (youtube), photo: aaron rapoport (getty images) there’s a lot of important questions in the air right now. who will save us? that’s one. but self-quarantining has our brains spinning in other directions, too. why are triscuits called triscuits? we ask in these isolated times. what are rian johnson’s favorite movie musicals? what do the goop people think about the coronavirus? was that patrick swayze in grease 2? because that sure looks like patrick swayze. this last question was posed on thursday by comedy bang! bang! host scott aukerman, who activated twitter’s grease 2 hive after posting a clip of a spinning back-up dancer who resembles the late actor. while it might seem random, swayze did play danny zuko on broadway and, in the same year that grease 2 was released, appeared as a dancer in toto’s video for “rosanna.” advertisement aukerman’s query, however, was met with a resounding “no” by the grease 2 fanbase, which exists because, believe it or not, grease 2 is cool as hell. advertisement a definitive answer came from better things star pamela adlon, who made her screen debut in grease 2 when she was 16. “it’s not him,” she replied. “i can’t remember the name of the dancer. but when we shot it was a bunch of brilliant dancer/singers. old school. who indelibly made an impression on this young teenager. discipline. and talent all.” advertisement others did remember the name of the dancer: dennis daniels, who is currently a practitioner of the healing arts. advertisement now, as you can see, is truly the time to ask your most inconsequential burning questions. we’re all looking for distractions right now. advertisement send great job, internet tips to gji@theonion.com randall colburn posts twitter randall colburn is the a.v. club's internet culture editor. he lives in chicago, occasionally writes plays, and was a talking head in best worst movie, the documentary about troll 2. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine please, we’re begging, make this patrick stewart/ian mckellen gardening detective show a reality someone's suing mandy moore for $150,000 for posting a photo of...herself from justin to terrible: 21 unfortunate cinematic pop-star vehicles share tweet