editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. muckraker / scandal and investigations latest 40 mins ago crowds at parks, beaches and trails force closures as covid-19 spreads 41 mins ago ‘last on the food chain’: equipment shortages, coronavirus-infected bodies shaking funeral industry 44 mins ago police investigating deadly nyc subway fire as a crime washington has an innovative way to fund its covid response – if it can get trump’s ok a stretcher is moved from an amr ambulance to the life care center of kirkland where one associate and one resident were diagnosed with the novel coronavirus (covid-19) in the facility in kirkland, washington on febr... a stretcher is moved from an amr ambulance to the life care center of kirkland where one associate and one resident were diagnosed with the novel coronavirus (covid-19) in the facility in kirkland, washington on february 29, 2020. (photo by jason redmond/afp via getty images) more less by josh kovensky | march 25, 2020 2:16 p.m. editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. washington state petitioned the trump administration on tuesday for a nearly unprecedented change to its medicaid program, tailored to respond to the state’s climbing number of covid-19 patients. the ask would see the state create a covid-19 disaster relief fund, allowing private philanthropists and local governments to finance much-needed emergency services targeted at getting control of the pandemic. the move comes as washington continues to battle the epidemic, with nearly 2,500 cases in the state and 123 deaths, almost two months after the first case appeared in the state. the request to centers for medicaid & medicare services notes the urgency, saying that “covid-19 now threatens the lives of millions and places extraordinary strain on washington state’s healthcare system,” adding that “ongoing response efforts and a clear-eyed projection of what is ahead have made it clear” that the state needs the federal approval it seeks. jason mcgill, assistant director for medicaid at washington state’s department of health, told tpm that the request would allow “local dollars and philanthropy dollars to pay for non-traditional medicaid services” that the federal program currently does not cover. that includes quarantine isolation tents, disease screening centers, and shelters for the covid-positive homeless, among other things. “that’s our big ask,” mcgill added, saying that it remains to be seen whether the federal government would determine that “the financing makes sense, and if they have the wherewithal to approve that.” the request was issued to cms by asking for what is known in medicaid parlance as a 1115 waiver, in which the federal government can approve temporary changes to its health-care programs in response to a crisis. washington state already petitioned the federal government with a different 1115 waiver last week, and also asked for emergency medicaid changes under a separate waiver that was issued pursuant to president trump’s emergency declaration. the trump administration partially approved that request, and washington has come back for more in response to what it describes in the tuesday waiver request as an “ever-escalating” crisis. mcgill told tpm that the state made the request under a template that cms issued over the weekend as part of a bid to standardize the process through which dozens of states are asking for emergency changes to their government-run health insurance programs. cms approved a similar waiver in 2006, mcgill said, for louisiana following hurricane katrina. that program allowed the state to forego budgetary requirements to expand its medicaid coverage in the aftermath of the hurricane. it’s not clear what private philanthropies would contribute to the disaster relief fund, should it be approved. money from the fund, the state says, would finance quarantine sites, the purchase of ventilators, personal protective equipment, and the establishment of a statewide tracking center to standardize and monitor covid-19 cases. tierney sneed contributed to this report. read the document here: josh kovensky is an investigative reporter for talking points memo, based in new york. he previously worked for the kyiv post in ukraine, covering politics, business, and corruption there. have a tip? send it here! includes: coronaviruscovid-19medciaidwashington state more in muckraker 2 days ago covid-19 spikes calls to suicide hotlines nationwide 3 days ago how do we solve this without knowing who is already immune? 1 week ago covid-19’s frontline fighters face wrenching decisions on who to treat comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy