editors' blog / analysis & opinion news live blog cafe / outside voices & analysis muckraker / scandal & investigations podcast prime / member exclusives feature series memberships view options get tpm merch shop now follow tpm send comments and tips about contact careers faq terms of use site status © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. live blog live coverage watch live: wh coronavirus task force holds briefing at 5:30 pm et by matt shuham | march 27, 2020 editors' note: tpm is making our covid-19 coverage free to all readers during this national health crisis. if you’d like to support tpm's reporters, editors and staff, the best way to do so is to become a member. president donald trump and members of the white house coronavirus task force are scheduled to hold a press conference on friday at 5:30 p.m. et. trump is likely to discuss his decision to finally use the defense production act to ramp up the production of necessary medical supplies. ahead of the briefing, trump signed further authorizations under the defense production act, the wartime law that allows the federal government to order corporations to prioritize the production of certain supplies deemed essential to the covid-19 response. “[i]t is the policy of the united states to expand domestic production of health and medical resources needed to respond to the spread of covid-19, including personal protective equipment and ventilators,” trump said in an executive order. “accordingly, i am delegating authority under title iii of the [defense production] act to guarantee loans by private institutions, make loans, make provision for purchases and commitments to purchase, and take additional actions to create, maintain, protect, expand, and restore domestic industrial base capabilities to produce such resources.” have a tip? send it here! includes: covid-19donald trumpwhite house coronavirus task force comments advertisement masthead masthead founder & editor-in-chief: josh marshall executive editor: david kurtz managing editor: john light senior editor: david taintor special projects editor: nicole lafond investigations desk: tierney sneed josh kovensky reporters: matt shuham kate riga newswriters: cristina cabrera summer concepcion editor at large: john b. judis general counsel: millet israeli publisher: joe ragazzo head of product: derick dirmaier director of technology: matt wozniak publishing associate: jackie wilhelm front-end developer: jacob harris senior designer: christine frapech follow tpm send comments and news tips about contact careers faq advertise terms of use california consumer privacy act notice site status membership options published since 2000 © 2020 tpm media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy