/ david pescovitz / 10:21 am fri mar 27, 2020 watch johnny carson joke about the toilet paper shortage follow us twitter / facebook / rss no, that isn't a deepfake. in 1973, the stock market crashed and an arab oil embargo resulted in a gas crisis. with that as the context, a (false) rumor of a toilet paper shortage emerged and spread like wildfire via news outlets before it was further fueled by johnny carson (who later apologized). it's a fascinating story of shortage psychology and panic buying. from priceonomics: in november of 1973, several news agencies reported a tissue shortage in japan. initially, the release went unnoticed and nobody seemed to put much stock in it -- save for one harold v. froelich. froelich, a 41-year-old republican congressman, presided over a heavily-forested district in wisconsin and had recently been receiving complaints from constituents about a reduced stream of pulp paper. on november 16th, he released his own press statement -- “the government printing office is facing a serious shortage of paper” -- to little fanfare. however, a few weeks later, froelich uncovered a document that indicated the government’s national buying center had fallen far short of securing bids to provide toilet paper for its troops and bureaucrats. on december 11, he issued another, more serious press release: “the u.s. may face a serious shortage of toilet paper within a few months...we hope we don’t have to ration toilet tissue...a toilet paper shortage is no laughing matter. it is a problem that will potentially touch every american.” in the climate of shortages, oil scares, and economic duress, froelich’s claim was absorbed without an iota of doubt, and the media ran wild with it. wire services, radio hosts, and international correspondents all sensationalized the story; words like “may” and “potentially” were lost in translation, and the shortage was reported as a doomed truth. television stations aired footage from the scott paper company -- one of the ten largest producers in the u.s. -- of toilet paper rolls shooting off the production line. the ground had been set for a consumer panic; all it needed was a spark to ignite it. when johnny carson cracked a joke about toilet paper on his television talk show, things got serious. (via r/obscuremedia) share / tweet / 1 comments panic / psychology / shortages / television / toilet paper get the boing boing newsletter an oral history of the office andy greene literally wrote the book on the office. his book the office: the untold story of the greatest sitcom of the 2000s: an oral history is released today! vulture has an excerpt from the book telling the behind-the-scenes story of “stress relief,” the two-part “fire drill” episode. here’s a snip: ben silverman [producer]: the […] read the rest watch 80 joyous minutes of newly discovered seinfeld bloopers at r/seinfeld, mrjonlott writes: at the raynham flea market 2 years ago i found a dvd with 80 minutes of previously unseen seinfeld bloopers. these are different from the official dvd bloopers, which are already on youtube. this dvd was in a bootleg case with a bootleg design, and a simple unvarnished disc inside. i […] read the rest dallas theme tune had french lyrics dallas, the prime-time soap opera that ran from 1978-1991 and 2012-2014, is as famous for its catchy theme tune as for j.r. ewing’s machinations. in france, i today learned, that theme tune was modified so that it could include lyrics. dallas, ton univers impitoyable dallas, glorifie la loi du plus fort dallas, et sous ton […] read the rest keep your mind sharp and your options open with over 600 expert-led online workforce courses many americans are facing unexpected changes in their professional lives that have left them with quite a bit of downtime. it’s stressful and frustrating, but the best thing to do is focus on controlling what you can control. if you have extra hours on your hands, you can be productive with them. use them to […] read the rest these 20 headphone offers should help bring peace and quiet to the home office odds are, you picked your home as the best location to hang up your business outfits so you could relax and enjoy your off-hours in peace and comfort. unfortunately, worlds are now colliding. in many cases, your home is now also your place of business. and trying to finish reports or make calls doesn’t always […] read the rest this tech-powered renter's and home insurance cuts through red tape fast you probably have a lot of items in your home that you’d hate to lose to theft or damage. while certainly no one ever hopes to fall victim to a natural disaster or home invasion, you need to be prepared just in case it does happen. when it comes to choosing a reliable renters insurance, […] read the rest read the rules you agree to by using this website in our terms of service. we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. boing boing uses cookies and analytics trackers, and is supported by advertising, merchandise sales and affiliate links. read about what we do with the data we gather in our privacy policy. who will be eaten first? our forum rules are detailed in the community guidelines. boing boing is published under a creative commons license except where otherwise noted. mark frauenfelder david pescovitz xeni jardin rob beschizza carla sinclair editors jason weisberger publisher ken snider sysadmin about us contact us advertise forums shop report a bad ad shop support