home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library holidays latest articles money travel prevnext ways you can save money on flight tickets for your next family holiday leyla preston sun 24th dec 2017 18shares share tweet pin the next big seasonal holiday is coming up over the christmas period and flight tickets can grow sky-high in the space of just a short few weeks, especially when you are forking out for a whole family. momondo, a free and inspirational global travel search site that compares millions of cheap flights, hotels, and car hire deals, brings out a study every year that aggregates data from billions of flights to give you the best ways to save money. it is worth looking at the results of their annual flight study, but here is a rundown of what momondo found, based on 13 billion fares across the top 100 routes. table of contents best time to book your ticket is… the best day to fly is… the best time to fly is… other budget-friendly tips for saving money on your flights best time to book your ticket is… … if you book 56 days in advance, which will save you around 28% on your ticket. the worst day to book is on the day you plan to fly, where prices can sometimes triple in value. to stay on top of price fares, create a ‘fare alert’ with momondo so you can receive notifications of up to twice a week about any noticeable changes in price. this way you do not miss out on the best deals again. the best day to fly is… on a tuesday. tuesday is the day you can get the best airfare deals, saving you around 11% on your ticket fee, while saturday is the worst day to fly. also, flying on a tuesday means that when you get back you only endure 3 days of work before it is the weekend again. the best time to fly is… in the evening. after sunset to sunrise is the best time to fly. what time you arrive obviously depends on where you are heading to, but travelling overnight can also help with tired kids and get them to sleep during the journey which is a bonus. other budget-friendly tips for saving money on your flights search for flights everywhere on the net, so you can be sure to get the best bang for your buck. expedia offers access to the very best deals available when you need to travel and they have partnered with groupon coupons, so you can save even more money flying indirect may seem a little more cumbersome and time-consuming, but it does shave pounds off your overall flight tickets travel out of season. travelling off-peak means you will find better bargains and beautiful countries with their long seasonal weather, so you do not have to miss the summer sun or the winter snow just because you’re not travelling during christmas or the summer season. find small airports that offer cheaper fares. even though there may be an airport right next to you, travelling to an airport further away might help to slice those flight fees. bring your own food on board. flight food is expensive and a luxury that you do not need to include with your fare tickets. preparing snacks for the plane can ensure you know what the family is eating and you can make it as healthy or as ‘naughty’ as you want. i would not recommend the latter unless you want sugar-crazed children running up and down the aisles of the plane… for more great ways to save money on your flight tickets, visit momondo’s website here. click here for more travel-related articles click here for more holiday posts click here for more ways to save money for your family “collaborative feature post* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:airportfamilyfamily holidayfareflightsholidaymomondosaving money related posts feeling guilty as a parent? don’t! 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... why disneyland paris should be the numbe... 7 reasons why you should take the family... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... 5 reasons to take the kids to mauritius ... financial planning tips for new parents teach your kids to save and manage their... 5 minute interview with daniel alexander... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... ten half-term activities you can do on a... how will your family watch wimbledon thi... ghostly cork 5 exciting days in for rainy days with t... everyone loves a good bargain! top 5 tip... looking after your money after christmas what it feels like to be overdue… should you stay or should you go: 4 marr... a-z relaxation techniques during early l... top 6 things to do with the kids this ha... 4 expert laundry hacks for mums avoid holiday disasters – a guide ... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... a toddler guide to tenerife the best holiday destinations for new pa... brantano clarks ballerina shoes – ... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... planning a child’s birthday party on a b... how to shop smart and save online with h... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 18shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok