home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style sign in welcome!log into your account your username your password forgot your password? password recovery recover your password your email search sign in welcome! log into your account your username your password forgot your password? get help password recovery recover your password your email a password will be e-mailed to you. we and the color home design branding graphic design interior design product design packaging design web design art photography architecture illustration motion fashion recommendations fonts templates books art/posters/prints technology interior style home we and the color, it’s all about art & design we and the color, it’s all about art & design what we are at we and the color… we and the color was founded by dirk petzold in 2010 as a project dedicated to promote the most outstanding creative ideas of artists and designers from around the world. you can call it an art & design blog, a web magazine for the creative crowd or whatever. we want to inspire people and show that creativity has no bounds. with a focus on diverse fields such as art, design, illustration, photography, architecture, fashion, animation and filmmaking, we and the color is a website for professionals as well as people intested in art and design. in addition to the abundance of inspiration that you can find on we and the color, we also present useful tools and gadgets for the creative crowd such as fonts, graphics, books, website themes, templates or mockups. dirk petzold, owner and founder of we and the color, a blog for art and design inspiration. with a degree as designer for digital & print media, dirk petzold started his professional career as freelance graphic designer and illustrator back in 2004. through countless projects for clients from different business areas, he gained experience in the fields of creative direction, branding, advertising, illustration, graphic design for web and print, etc. in may 2010, he has started we and the color as an art & design project on tumblr. the site received a lot of attention and it quickly became one of the most popular design blogs on tumblr. in 2012, we and the color was relaunched as an independent website. if you would like to contact us or if you want to submit a project for review, please write to: meandyou@weandthecolor.com you can follow we and the color on: email by continuing, you accept the privacy policy editor picks 10 free fonts to create amazing designs in 2020 10 cool fonts graphic designers will love in 2020 top graphic designers on instagram to follow for creative inspiration popular posts central park infrared/aerochrome photos i am an actor by franck bohbot lane coder – underwater photography popular category design4038 graphic design2565 recommendations1479 branding1427 illustration1384 fonts895 photography892 art880 templates548 about us we and the color is a web magazine for your daily art and design inspiration. we feature outstanding projects of various creative fields. in addition, you can find trendy graphics, templates, and fonts for download. read more here. contact us: meandyou@weandthecolor.com follow us legal information privacy advertisement © copyright 2019 we and the color – all rights reserved this website uses cookies to improve your experience. by continuing, you are agreeing to our terms of use.accept read more privacy & cookies policy close necessary always enabled