call us today: 0113 829 3465 home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact home about services equity release estate planning insurance investments mortgages buy to let mortgages self employed mortgages right to buy mortgages high net worth mortgages remortgage advice protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services coverage life events contact wealth management as an independent financial advisers we have access to a whole range of products and can pick them using multiple criteria, rather than pushing your aspirations through a sausage machine to just a small number of pre-determined outcomes. freedom advice regularly engage with clients who have been let down by their banks and building societies, having received poor service and empty promises. we can provide you with a bespoke range of products designed to your complicated needs. we have many years experience working with individuals who need help with: large pension funds property portfolios inheritance tax planning setting up trust arrangements we are truly independent, and have a transparent charging structure, so there are no hidden fees and no charges built into opaque and limited investment plans. to speak to a member of our team in complete confidence and with no obligation, please call us on 0113 829 3465 or complete the enquiry form below to request a call back. your name (required) your email (required) subject your message call us today: 0113 829 3465 freedom advice llp trading as freedom advice is authorised and regulated by the financial conduct authority, registration no. 775854. freedom advice - independent financial advisers 22 castle grove drive leeds ls6 4bp 0113 829 3465 services mortgage advice buy to let mortgages equity release estate planning insurance investments protection retirement planning wealth management will writing services equity release what is equity release? what you need to consider regarding equity release is equity release safe? do i qualify for equity release? alternatives to equity release how much equity can be released from my home? how does equity release work? copyright 2019 freedom advice ltd. all rights reserved. the guidance and or advice contained within this website is subject to the uk regulatory regime and is therefore primarily targeted to customers in the uk.