skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about web development shopify tutorial: how to quickly build a professional online store by jamie when the time comes to build your own online store, you’ll have your choice of ecommerce website builders and tools. one of the most popular and easy-to-use tools is shopify. it’s a subscription product that’s built for beginners who want to create their very first online store and start an online business. it’s very easy … read moreshopify tutorial: how to quickly build a professional online store categories web development history of women in computing by jamie from programming languages to robotics to interaction designs, women have been pioneers in the evolution of computing. but what’s surprising is that only a few women enter computing as a career today. before the 1980s, many women undertook computer science degrees, but with the advent of the home computer (early 1980s), this number steadily dropped. … read morehistory of women in computing categories web development women in computer science – get involved in stem careers by jamie photo by thought catalog computer science is a very promising field. the internet of things (iot) along with its many vestiges has a bright future and tight grasp on how our world functions. despite the recent growth and exciting career prospects, you still do not find a lot of women in this industry. some wonder why … read morewomen in computer science – get involved in stem careers categories web development what is a parked domain? – guide to parked domain names by jamie in our connected digital ecosystem, your domain name is a valuable commodity. the quality of your domain name can have a big effect on your website’s overall success. your domain can also affect how your business is viewed. to novice web developers and internet entrepreneurs, choosing a domain is a simple task that’s often reserved … read morewhat is a parked domain? – guide to parked domain names categories web development web hosting companies that accept paypal payments – 2020 guide by jamie to create a professional presence on the web without limitations you have to make use of paid web hosting rather than free hosting. making payments using a credit card can be uncomfortable to some people. for those individuals, paypal is an alternative payment method with security that might not be present using a credit card. … read moreweb hosting companies that accept paypal payments – 2020 guide categories web development 22 places to learn to code for free in 2020 by jamie [ last updated – 28th october 2019 – new addition: code avengers] are you a computer geek who likes the technical part of web development? do you like to take control of things, while converting your application idea or website idea into reality? are you a blogger who likes to reach out to people through quality … read more22 places to learn to code for free in 2020 categories web development free ssl certificate with bluehost hosting for wordpress by jamie bluehost is one of the most popular hosting companies for wordpress blogs and websites. with affordably priced tiers and a simple-to-use interface, it’s no surprise that bluehost hosts more than two million websites from its headquarters in provo, utah. one of the most popular features that bluehost offers customers is issuing a free ssl certificate. … read morefree ssl certificate with bluehost hosting for wordpress categories web development the cost of a website: how much does a website cost in 2020? by jamie the cost of designing a website can vary wildly, from totally free, to thousands of dollars. the amount you spend will very much depend on the type of site you want to create and the platform you use. in this guide to the cost of a website, we will discuss the numerous web design options … read morethe cost of a website: how much does a website cost in 2020? categories web development simple step by step dreamweaver tutorial – 2020 by jamie there are tons of different tools and platforms you can use to build out your website. some are more beginner friendly than others. but, no matter your experience level you’ll be able to find a site builder that’s perfect for your needs. if you’ve never heard of dreamweaver before it’s an application from adobe that … read moresimple step by step dreamweaver tutorial – 2020 categories web development free domains – where & how to get your hands on them by jamie whether you’re a shoestring startup or a wannabe blogger, an effective domain name is what brings people to your website. it’s like a street address. choose the right one and traffic could be beating down your door. choose the wrong one and you’ll be nearly invisible. so, without a warehouse full of equipment and a … read morefree domains – where & how to get your hands on them categories web development best ssl testing tools for your website by jamie if you are a website owner, you know the importance of testing your site. there are some different things you should test for. user-friendliness, mobile compatibility, and ux are a few of the components you should check. in addition to this, you should test for more technical aspects that involve the backend functions of your … read morebest ssl testing tools for your website categories web development 40 of the weirdest websites on the internet 2020 by jamie if you’re looking for pointless, weird and irrelevant websites, then be prepared to have your mind blown with this unruly bunch. i’m here to bring you to the world’s most useless websites. the internet really is a wonderful place. it caters for all our curiosities, interests and hunger for knowledge. there are social media and … read more40 of the weirdest websites on the internet 2020 categories web development the best website monitoring services 2020 by jamie in the offline world, all types of security monitoring services are used by companies who wish to make sure that their facilities remain secure, their secrets are left untouched, and that nothing stops the business from operating at peak efficiency. in the online world, website monitoring services provide similar peace of mind. to guard against … read morethe best website monitoring services 2020 categories web development where to find free node.js hosting by jamie as an application programmer, it is difficult not to love javascript, right? the reason for this is due its simplicity. even if you are not a professional app developer, you can still understand javascript code. and, the node.js open-source platform (for javascript) just makes it even simpler to build great applications on the web. if … read morewhere to find free node.js hosting categories web development 5 best ftp clients by jamie in this post we will show you our top 5 best ftp client software for bloggers. the products we have listed have been tested by myself over the years, and i truly do recommend them. a file transfer protocol (ftp) client is a must for anyone who works on websites or runs a server. an … read more5 best ftp clients categories web development post navigation older posts 1 2 … 4 next → best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub