0802.343.1861 0803.352.7121 home » about » courses » website design training everything put together to arrive at a website solution is secondary to the visual representation which is the most part of what the website design scope entails. web application development training there comes a time when a company will need to make a technology leap into incorporating its business online, either for a business to business operation.. online marketing & advert training the essence of owning a website is not just for a business to be available to its local audience, it is better as a business tool to target a global market niche. corporate or private training in today's jet age, it becomes imperative for you to expose your professional team to knowledge and skill inputs, if you want to maintain high-quality productivity. mobile application development training mobile platform is the gold rush of this technology age, because of its ease of use, portability and adaptability. the new mobile devices such as the tablet computers.. distance elearning solutions as we aspire to achieve more in life, our schedules becomes stricter and we may never have time to learn a new skill especially if you are on paid employment. alumni » register » tutorials » contact » larry page & sergey brin. google.com mark zuckerberg. facebook.com bill gates. bing.com jerry yang & david filo. yahoo.com jack dorsey. twitter.com jimmy wales. wikipedia.com matt mullenweg. wordpress.com join the lords of the web. why go mobile? with 5.2 billion subscribers, it is the largest consumer group on the planet. where would you rather be? conducive learning environment. you only need to come with your laptop, every other tool will be provided including softwares, manuals etc. our courses has been grouped into six categories namely: website design, web application development, online marketing, corporate/private training, mobile application development and distance elearning solutions. you can use the button menu above to locate each of them in order to understand them to help you make a better choice. certificate will be awarded after each training plus lots of benefits too. web design training ₦30,000 with basic computer skill & browsing you're welcome xhtml css dreamweaver fireworks explore web apps. training ₦50,000 you're required to have done web design training javascript jquery php mysql explore emarketing training ₦50,000 with a browsing experience you're good to go with us s e o content marketing social networking online advertisement explore beyond the classroom walls. after training, we shall take you step-by-step thru the uphill tasks to the downhill of web business success. welcome to web academy website design training explore details web app. development training explore details online marketing training explore details corporate or private training explore details enroll now » tutorials © 2020 web academy® nigeria developed by web academy parent company magnate muscles limited