about work articles get in touch menu articles work contact home about careers work charlottesville ale trail everactive the high line articles contact menu web developer storyware is looking for a web developer to work on the next generation of digital experiences for some of the world’s greatest brands. what to expect who we seek apply what to expect the opportunity to work with a small team of passionate professionals, who always strive for the best. we all work on a variety of projects, so you can rest assured that there will never be a dull workday. we value hard work, but we also value flexibility. our team often works remotely, and it’s fairly common for team-members to check out for a mid-day run, or to get the kids off of the bus. please read more about our values and our work before you apply. here is what you can expect in terms of your daily tasks as a web developer at storyware: build new features for a variety of applications, from the back-end to the front-end. leverage the themosis framework, and storyware’s wp-fluent library to build enterprise-level wordpress applications. work with storyware’s content block system to deliver a flexible cms to clients. troubleshoot existing applications when the need arises. develop api integrations with an emphasis on object-oriented programming. leverage wordpress’ rest api to develop interactive experiences in wordpress. work with the cto to develop creative solutions that meet the needs and budget of the client. who we seek the person in this role will work to build and evolve advanced applications built primarily on wordpress with the themosis framework. these are not your average wordpress sites; our architecture closely resembles modern laravel applications. in other words, our workflow includes modern technologies and best practices that you would not typically find in other wordpress roles. you may also have the opportunity to work on projects outside of wordpress, i.e. alexa skills, laravel applications, custom php applications, and more. job requirements: ability to translate designs into code with clean and scalable html, css, javascript, and php. understand project requirements and collaborate with our development team and stakeholders to deliver the perfect solution for our clients. develop, and deploy web based solutions using common standards and frameworks. work independently and with other team members. meet deadlines and produce quality work. required qualifications: experience developing wordpress themes and /or plugins. ability to write scalable css. experience with scss/sass, javascript, and jquery. ability to clearly communicate your technical ideas, concepts, and solutions to team members with varying degrees of technical knowledge. ability to work on multiple projects in a fast paced, rapidly changing environment. ability to occasionally communicate with clients. provide code samples or project examples demonstrating recent work and capabilities. high school diploma or equivalent. strong understanding of git and version control. strong attention to detail. general knowledge of ux and accessibility best practices. preferred qualifications: 3-5 years of experience in web and application development. strong php experience. familiarity with javascript libraries and frameworks (vue.js, react, or equivalent). familiarity with the laravel php framework and blade templating. experience with suit, bem, or other similar css methodology. experience interfacing with rest/soap apis. strong understanding of oop. knowledge of how to manage dependencies with tools such as composer and npm. familiarity with using laravel valet for local development. active github account and contributions. we are entertaining full and part-time applications for this role. the ideal candidate would be near central virginia, but we are open to speaking with remote candidates who would be working outside of our immediate area. applicants must be located in the us. compensation is based on candidate experience. full-time employment includes health, dental, vision, and disability insurance, plus a simple ira plan that we contribute to, and 5 weeks of time off (between pto and holidays). web developer application first name* last name* are you located in the us?* yes no while this is a remote position, you must be located in the us. where are you located? phone* email* linkedin profile* github profile* resume & cover letter feel free to share your resume, a cover letter, portfolio, or anything else that will impress us! drop files here or accepted file types: pdf, doc, docx, jpg. anything else you want us to know? how did you learn about us? it's super helpful to know who refers us so that we can thank her or him. would you like to subscribe to our newsletter? heck yes no, thank you email this field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. this iframe contains the logic required to handle ajax powered gravity forms. medium instagram facebook linkedin spotify twitter 826 b hinton avenue charlottesville, virginia 22902 help@storyware.co 434.381.3095 about work articles careers contact privacy policy terms & conditions © 2020 business bullpen, llc. all rights reserved.