bluehost if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the bluehost website, or otherwise have difficulties using the bluehost website, please call 855-435-0973 and our customer service team will assist you. wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates cad usd eur gbp aud inr chat call login wordpress wordpress hosting wp pro ecommerce hosting shared hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting domains professional services services blue sky email affiliates chat call call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 login cad usd eur gbp aud inr the perfect place to host your website from shared hosting, to your very own dedicated server, we've got everything you need to bring your website to life. compare plans now which plan is right for you? there's no one-size-fits-all solution for web hosting. so we've got specific plans to fit your specific needs. shared our most popular solution provides everything you need to get started. ca$5.30/mo* normally ca$10.72 select great for a new website or blog easy-to-use customer dashboard fully managed solution vps power, control, and flexibility. run a server the way you want. ca$26.81/mo* normally ca$40.23 select great for moderate to high traffic scalable with on-demand resources full root access for additional control dedicated dedicated hosting provides improved security and complete customization. ca$107.29/mo* normally ca$160.94 select great for websites with high traffic for resource-intensive needs ultimate security and performance looking for wordpress? bluehost provides special hosting options for wordpress and woocommerce websites. get your wordpress website started right with site analytics, traffic management, security, and backups all together in a complete wordpress bundle.learn more online stores everything you need from a hosting service to sell online. plus additional bells and whistles such as: shopping carts, inventory management, paypal processing, and more. learn more have questions? we're here 24/7 to answer your questions and offer advice to help you get started. 888-401-4678 chat faqs what makes bluehost different from other website hosting providers? bluehost has remained one of the top trusted website hosting providers since 2005. with over 2 million websites utilizing our platforms, we have maintained our commitment to providing the best in website hosting services and management tools. bluehost distinguishes itself from competitors by focusing on innovation at all levels; including customer support, infrastructure, security, and our suite of web tools. does bluehost provide domain names with web hosting? shared web hosting services receive a free domain name upon new account creation. customers of bluehost can select a .com, .org, or .net domain name as part of creating their website with us. do i get an email address with my web hosting account? yes, regardless of what platform you choose with bluehost, email is included. you can create an email address that is directly tied to your domain name. [yourname]@[yourdomain].com can i transfer my existing domain name to bluehost? yes, transferring your existing domain to bluehost is easy to do within the customer dashboard. simply navigate to the domain management section of the dashboard and follow the on-screen instructions to begin the transfer of your domain records. how do i migrate to bluehost? bluehost provides a concierge migration service to help ensure your site and all its files are transferred correctly and securely. site migration can be time consuming and complex, however bluehost makes migrating your site easy. complete a site migration form located on this page, and our team of experts will reach out to you to begin the process. call us anytime we are available 24/7 to help answer questions and solve your problems. united states - 888-401-4678 international - +1 801-765-9400 complete hosting solutions starting at ca$5.30/month* get started * the promotional price is for the first term only and renews at the regular rate. products shared hosting wordpress hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting reseller hosting hosting features programs wordpress affiliates marketing services wordpress guide professional email bluetopia blueprint blue sky support chat knowledge base do not sell my info company about careers contact terms of service privacy blog sitemap © 2002-2020 bluehost inc. all rights reserved. 888-401-4678 × 30-day hosting money-back guarantee the promotional price is for the first term only and plans renew at the regular rate. your satisfaction is our top priority and we're confident you'll be pleased with our services. still, if you try us and decide your account does not sufficiently meet your needs, you can cancel within 30 days for a refund as follows. if you cancel within 30 days you receive a full refund on your hosting service only. the money-back guarantee does not apply to most add-on products, such as domains, given the unique nature of their costs. if you cancel within 30 days and your plan includes a free domain, bluehost will deduct a non-refundable domain fee of $15.99 from your refund. this not only covers our costs, but ensures that you won't lose your domain name. you may transfer it to another registrar or simply point it elsewhere at your convenience. please note newly registered domains cannot be transferred to another registrar during the first 60 days of the registration period. you retain ownership of your domain until the end of its registration period unless you renew it. bluehost does not offer any refunds for cancellations that occur after 30 days. x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.