evernote uses cookies to enable the evernote service and to improve your experience with us. to learn more, check out our cookie policy. by clicking ok or continuing to use our site, you agree that we can place these cookies. ok click "ok" to return to yinxiang.com ok evernote plans basic take great notes premium unclutter your life business bring your team together compare plans find the evernote solution that fits your needs features sync and organize keep your notes handy web clipper a save button for the web templates make better notes, faster pdf & doc search find information anywhere spaces bring your team together search handwriting find text in any note document scanning go paperless with evernote integrations connect your favorite apps help & learning about us about us learn about the company careers opportunities at evernote why evernote save, sync and share it all contact us need help? get in touch download or log in evernote download or log in plans basic premium business compare plans features sync and organize web clipper templates pdf & doc search spaces search handwriting document scanning integrations help & learning about us about us why evernote careers contact us web clipper save website screenshots directly to your evernote account. get web clipper save web pages, articles, and pdfs when you find useful information online, clip it to evernote. save full page screen captures or just the parts you want to remember, without the clutter of ads and headlines. better than a bookmark no more searching from scratch. no more dead links. clipped content is always available in your evernote account, whenever and wherever you need it. discover more on the evernote blog get started with web clipper and discover more ways to get the most out of evernote web clipper: how to improve your browsing experience forever read blog 9 different ways to save stuff in evernote read blog annotate screenshots take a screenshot of a webpage, then add text, callouts, or annotations to highlight important information so you never forget why you saved it. organize on the fly add tags and remarks, edit titles, and save content to any notebook you choose so it’s easy to find it again later. capture ideas and inspiration from anywhere and manage tasks with ease. get started for free product why evernote evernote basic evernote premium evernote business compare plans student discount download app features web clipper templates spaces integrations notes sync pdf & doc search search handwriting document scanning notebooks & tags community our community certified consultants beta program developers events forum support help & learning troubleshooting blog company about us careers contact us sign up or log in choose a language: english (us) bahasa indonesia bahasa melayu dansk deutsch english (us) español español (américa latina) français italiano nederlands polski português (brasil) português (portugal) suomi svenska tiếng việt türkçe русский العربية ภาษาไทย 한국어 中文（简体） 中文（繁體） 日本語 facebook twitter medium instagram youtube linkedin © 2020 evernote corporation. all rights reserved. security legal privacy