live chat 24/7/365 support toll free: customer login | support | affiliates toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. web hosting website builder wordpress hosting vps dedicated domains pricing support affiliates need help? call us! customer login toggle navigation if you are using assistive technology and are unable to read any part of the hostgator website, or otherwise have difficulties using the hostgator website, please call 855-435-0974 and our customer service team will assist you. menu sign into hostgator portal sign into website builder give us a ring at (866) 96-gator hosting shared hosting easy, affordable and awesome. website builder all you gotta do is drag and drop. wordpress hosting their flexibility + our amazing hosting. compare all features pro hosting dedicated hosting the best in both power and performance. vps hosting complete control without the expense. reseller hosting work for a boss you trust: you. compare all features domains register domains claim your perfect name. transfer domains bring your name over to our game. what's a domain name? support live chat have a question? we're here 24/7/365 call us give us a ring at (866) 96-gator knowledge base know what the pros know. commonly asked questions how do i purchase an ssl and what type is it? how do i point my domain to hostgator? hostgator website transfers? affiliates become an affiliate call 24/7/365 at (866) 96-gator sign in → portal head to the customer dashboard. website builder go right into the builder live chat → earn money with the hostgator affiliate program sign up for hostgator's affiliate program and work with a team of experts to get you earning right away! sign up free! already have an account? log in we offer flexible payouts starting with a progressive tiered payout! a dedicated team of affiliate specialists are available to assist you with our affiliate program. there is absolutely no cost to you to be a hostgator affiliate, and the earning potential is substantial! signups per month: 1-5 .................$65 /signup 6-10 ..............$75 /signup 11-20 .............$100 /signup 21+ ................$125 /signup let's do the math... if you send us 21 signups in any month, you will get $125 x 21 = $2,625 1-2-3 program overview utilizing our tools to create custom coupon codes and tracking links, you acquire new signups for hostgator services and then receive a commission of up to $125 per qualifying signup! as you can see, our domain hosting affiliate program is an easy way of making some extra cash. 1. sign up for our affiliate program signing up is free and easy - click here to apply now! 2. share your affiliate link use your custom coupon code, your affiliate link, and dozens of banners to refer your clients! 3. earn commission from hostgator once a referral uses your link or coupon code to make a valid purchase, you'll earn a commission! affiliate disclosure requirements & examples affiliate program faqs what is impact (impact radius)? impact provides the technology and payment processing platform we have selected to power the backend of our affiliate program. we have found this to be the best platform to provide you the ability to see reports and earnings, provide links and banners, and view important announcements within the program itself. can i get a discount coupon for my clients? absolutely! once logged into impact, you'll see "resource links" on your dashboard page. locate "request a custom promo code" and you'll be provided step-by-step instructions, screenshots included. what are the affiliate program's commission payout terms? our payout turnaround for qualified sales is 2 months + 10 days after the month the sale occurred in. this is to account for hostgator's amazing 45 day money-back guarantee which makes our hosting easy to try, at no risk! to learn more about the details of our program please consult our terms of service. how do you track sales? we have the ability to track referrals via both affiliate links and custom coupon codes. the affiliate is welcome to use both means, either of which results in a credited sale when the signup otherwise meets all of the terms and conditions. have more questions? - check our knowledge base with tons more information or email us at affiliates@hostgator.com! sign up and start making money today! sign up free! hostgator hosting web hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting reseller hosting vps hosting dedicated hosting application hosting windows hosting website builder domains register domains transfer domains manage domains services codeguard web design ppc seo affiliates become an affiliate affiliate portal support customer portal support portal video tutorials network status live chat company about hostgator awards & reviews press & media company blog contact us careers partners do not sell my info global directory sitemap terms of service privacy copyright 2016 hostgator.com llc. all rights reserved. *prices reflect discount on first term x the browser version you are using is no longer supported. please upgrade for the best site experience.