see help scout in action get a demo features shared inbox manage conversations at scale knowledge base instant answers for customers in-app messaging engage people on your website customer management know your vips reporting real-time data at your fingertips live chat make your website more helpful integrations connect the tools you already use company plan designed to grow with teams of 25+ resources blog culture, learnings, and product updates success stories see how other teams use help scout get a demo help scout tips, best practices, and q&a help center how-to articles about using help scout contact us get in touch with our team education helpu learn how to create exceptional customer experiences playlists customer service insights, organized by theme guides deep dives spanning the customer lifecycle webinars live and recorded sessions with industry experts pricing get a demo free trial see help scout in action get a demo shared inbox knowledge base messaging customer management reporting live chat integrations company plan pricing success stories get a demo blog helpu guides webinars free trial already a customer? login webinars helpu playlist icon playlists guides webinars help scout webinars educational webinars from the help scout team and experts in the customer service industry. upcoming webinar taking your team remote: live q&a march 27th, 12pm pt / 3pm et join help scout ceo, nick francis, and head of people ops, morgan smith-lenyard, for a live discussion on the unique aspects of taking your team remote. we will share best practices, tips from our team and give you the chance to ask questions about a way of working which been part of our company dna for nearly a decade. register now can't attend live? register anyway! we’ll send out the recording and other resources to all registrants after the webinar. we’ll also send you new essays every week; unsubscribe anytime. explore recent webinars check out our jumpstart videos, in-depth help scout webinars, and best practice deep dives to up your support game! all customer service customer experience help desk business and brand customer service creating customer flow customer service is about more than answering incoming support email, or being responsive on live chat. join help scout's ceo nick francis and wildbit's justine jordan for a live discussion of customer messaging. 41:10 customer service essentials of customer reporting join help scout’s mat patterson for this 30-minute webinar, and learn how to effectively use your reports. 31:28 customer service proactive customer service: from solving problems to supporting success join jacob lewis and erin lowell from you need a budget, along with mat patterson of help scout, for a live discussion about how to deliver proactive customer service that generates real results. 56:55 customer service customer service: delivered by people, enhanced by ai benoit gagnon, ceo and co-founder at miuros and nick francis, ceo and co-founder at help scout discuss how ai tools can join forces with human-powered service to deliver excellent customer experiences. 56:55 customer service read between the lines: understanding what customers are really asking join leslie o’flahavan, founder of e-write and help scout’s customer evangelist mat patterson as they discuss the skill of analytical reading, and share advice on how to improve your team’s critical reading. 58:35 customer service support-driven growth: elevating support teams to drive business results join nick francis, ceo at help scout, mo mckibbin, support-driven growth at help scout, and simon ouderkirk, marketing data at automattic, in a conversation about how elevating support teams to proactively drive growth can lead to both more rewarding careers for support professionals, and a better bottom line for the business. 59:07 customer service understanding support operations mat patterson, grace antonio, denise twum, and andrew spittle have a discussion on the structure, purpose and implementation of support operations. 1:00:38 customer experience measuring support quality: beyond csat & nps join beth trame, shervin talieh, and mathew patterson, as they chat about how to tell if you’re really doing support well. 58:34 customer experience building a customer support funnel learn about the 4 stages of the customer support funnel and how you can improve customer experience at every level. 59:25 customer experience best practices for adding live chat support learn the “right” way to launch and manage live chat customer support. 55:41 help desk switching help desks without the headaches we teamed up with experts in the space to discuss tips and best practices for switching to a new support help desk. 39:40 business and brand how to hire the best customer support team learn how to find and hire stellar support candidates in this 45-minute webinar hosted by mat patterson of help scout, sarah judd welch of loyal and chase clemons of basecamp. 56:25 business and brand how to use customer service to stand out from the competition join shep hyken, customer service and experience expert, and nick francis, ceo of help scout, as they discuss the role of support teams and departments in creating consistently great customer experiences. 31:14 customer service how to quickly scale your customer service join katherine pan of kickstarter, veronica armstrong of lovepop, and mat patterson of help scout to learn about the best practices for delivering exceptional customer service at scale. 60:51 customer experience deliver exceptional service during the seasonal rush join adrian swinscoe, customer experience consultant and expert, and nick francis, ceo of help scout, for a chat on preparing for your busiest customer service periods. 35:25 help desk q&a: switching from salesforce desk.com to help scout join us for an interview on making the switch from desk.com to help scout with rhoda meek, customer service director at olark. 38:27 help desk easy automation for busy support teams join thomas hils and andra roston of zapier, and mo mckibbin of help scout, for a nuts and bolts live chat on using zapier to deepen existing integrations. 42:41 customer service customer service reporting with real impact join chase clemons of basecamp and nick francis, ceo of help scout, for a live chat on how support teams can be more effective in their reporting. 34:20 business and brand the art of customer loyalty in a subscription business join krista atwell from dollar shave club, and mat patterson of help scout, for a chat on customer loyalty tactics for creating return customers. 54:00 business and brand can’t buy me love: taking customer service beyond satisfaction join antonio king from shinesty, michael labrecque-jessen from trello, and mat patterson of help scout, for a chat on creating customer connections that go beyond 'good enough'. 55:48 customer service the right kind of self-service join jeff toister customer service author, and nick francis, ceo of help scout, for a live discussion on the roles of self-service and humans in customer-centered companies. 36:24 customer service working successfully in a collaborative support model abigail phillips, head of support at help scout, and nancy baron, customer success coach at help scout, discuss the best way to successfully help customers in a collaborative support model. 61:23 business and brand turning customer conversations into actionable product insights join mary jantsch of tuff, jake bartlett of atlassian statuspage, and mat patterson, customer service evangelist at help scout, as they discuss the best ways to track, collect, and deliver customer feedback to improve product decisions. 57:24 customer experience reduce your support load through better product writing join sara culver, senior manager, product writing at slack, carlee potter, head of technical writing at campaign monitor, and mathew patterson, customer evangelist at help scout, for a live chat on the value of product writing, and how to make every word count. 57:01 recurring live classes if you're new to help scout, join us for a full tour of the app. we'll go through the basics to set you up for success in our free demo, so bring your questions! save your seat tools for the world's most customer-centric businesses features shared inbox knowledge base live chat messaging customer management new reporting integrations ios & android more features learn customer service skills intro to knowledge bases live chat support 101 working remotely customer support benchmarks company about us careers help scout for good startup program brand handbook terms & privacy get help developers help docs free training contact sales status 99.99% made by hand in over 75 cities around the world. © 2020 help scout