webinars forum guides & videos back english webinars webinare auf deutsch webinars english webinars webinare auf deutsch forumguides & videos scroll webinars looking for webinars in german? join us for a free squarespace webinar where you’ll learn the basics and refine your squarespace skills. these one-hour sessions will help you get ready to set up your site and get comfortable with the squarespace features, all without leaving your desk. new customers are welcome—no website required. the squarespace community team will stand by to answer your questions live. subjects what version of squarespace am i using? note: if you started your trial after jan. 13th, you're on version 7.1. for more information, see squarespace version 7.1 vs. version 7.0. getting started with squarespace v7.1 learn more getting started with squarespace v7.0 learn more launching your online store (v7.0) learn more growing your audience (v7.0) learn more get to know squarespace scheduling learn more webinars faq what do i need to sign up for a webinar? an email address you can access to receive the join link, and a browser that meets zoom's technical requirements. zoom is the platform we use to broadcast webinars. you don’t need a squarespace account to sign up, so this is a great way to see if squarespace is right for you. will there be a recording of the webinar? yes. after the webinar, we’ll email you a link to the recording that you can watch at your convenience, as long as you signed up in advance. is closed captioning available? while we explore how to best offer closed captioning in our webinars, we recommend watching our related help videos which have closed captioning available. how do i join the webinar? you’ll receive an email with the link to join once you have registered for the session. clicking this link on the day/time of the session will automatically download zoom to your computer and open the webinar. to watch webinars on your mobile device, download the zoom app. i can't see or hear anything. what should i do? to fix the issue, quit the zoom application, and then log back in by clicking the link in the invite email. if you still can’t see or hear anything, contact the community team at community@squarespace.com. are webinars available in other languages? currently, squarespace webinars are available in english and german. our customer support team and help center offer assistance in all of squarespace’s supported languages. banner webinar offerings webinar faq banner webinars faq support help site contact us service status @squarespacehelp squarespace 5 community forum hire a designer blog instagram youtube linkedin facebook twitter developers api docs circle developer platform resources website templates website design domain name search logo maker online stores website marketing terms of service privacy policy