skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about webmaster resources on this page, you will find some super useful tools and guides for web designers and online marketers to make your lives easier and more productive. infographic embed code generator easily create an embed code for your infographics, images and files with this really handy embed code generator. fill out all the fields and it will generate the code that you can then copy and paste into your own site. blog idea generator beat writers block with our blog idea generator. simply input keywords and topics and we will give you some ideas for great blog posts. .htaccess generator quickly generate an .htaccess file with many functions including www rewrite, hotlink prevention, custom error pages, caching, and redirects. regex cheat sheet the days of being confused by regular expressions are gone with this clear guide to the topic. wordpress theme detector easily find out the wp themes, plugins and web hosts powering your favorite wordpress websites regex tester the days of being confused by regular expressions are gone with this easy to use free regex tester cheat sheets check out my huge library of cheat sheets for web designers, developers, social media geeks and general website owners. html5 mobile compatibility checker check whether your web app is compatible with this guide to mobile compatibility. leave a comment cancel reply commentname email save my name and email in this browser for the next time i comment. best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub