website performance and availability monitoring | pingdom productpricingresourcessupporttools product uptime-smallcreated with sketch. uptime monitoring test your site’s availability from all over the world. alerting-small alerting effective alerting for when you need to be the first to know. pagespeed-small page speed monitoring examine and optimize the load performance of your website. performance-small visitor insights (rum) enhance your site performance with data from actual site visitors. transactions-small transaction monitoring help ensure your most vital site interactions function smoothly. server-small server monitor the easier way to monitor servers and web applications. product overview resources api-small pingdom api automate your pingdom interactions with our rest api using pingdom resources tutorials & guides mobile apps downloads brand assets webhooks don't take our word for it! read some of our customer stories who are we? read our story pricingsupport tools pagetest-small full page test analyze your website load speed. livemap-small live map see a live broadcast of the state of the internet. server-small appoptics dev edition free apm tool to use in test, pre-production. pingdom website speed test enter a url to test the page load time, analyze it, and find bottlenecks. url test from the internet is fragile. be the first to know when your site is in danger.start your free 14-day trial nobody likes a slow website we built this website speed test to help you analyze your website load speed. the test is designed to help make your site faster by identifying what about a webpage is fast, slow, too big, and so on. we have tried to make it useful both for experts and novices alike. in short, we wanted it to be an easy-to-use tool built to help webmasters and web developers everywhere optimize their website performance. about pingdom pingdom offers cost-effective and reliable uptime and performance monitoring for your website. we use more than 70 global polling locations to test and verify our customers' websites 24/7, all year long. with pingdom you can monitor your websites' uptime, performance, and interactions for a better end-user-experience. your customers will thank you. state colors the following colors are used in the chart bars to indicate the different stages of a request. dns web browser is looking up dns information ssl web browser is performing an ssl handshake connect web browser is connecting to the server send web browser is sending data to the server wait web browser is waiting for data from the server receive web browser is receiving data from the server blocked web browser is not ready to send content types the following icons are used to indicate different content types. html html document javascript javascript file css css file image image file text/plain plain text document other any other unknown content type warning the request got a 4xx, 5xx response or couldn’t be loaded redirect the request got a 3xx response and was redirected server response codes to make it easy for you to differentiate between the http response codes in the chart, we’ve added color-coded dots beside each url. 2xx the server responded with a successful code 3xx the request was redirected to another target 4xx a client error occurred, for example 404 page not found 5xx a server error occurred, for example 500 internal server error product uptime performance transaction monitoring alerting page speed pingdom tools pricing company why pingdom contact brand assets jobs customers using pingdom api tutorials webhooks downloads mobile apps pingdom help solarwinds solarwinds cloud appoptics papertrail latest from our blog our improved page speed reports... introducing threshold alerting pingdom announces new server... visit royal pingdom copyright © 2020 solarwinds worldwide, llc. all rights reserved. software service agreement, trademarks, terms of use, privacy policy or cookie policy. get in touch with our support team or give us a call at +1 (802) 242-4077 (8am - 8pm utc).