main navigation wordpress.com products features resources plans & pricing log in get started menu blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise overview themes plugins google apps support news expert tips navigation menu close menu get started add a new site › sign up › log in › about plans & pricing products blogs websites domains ecommerce self‑hosted solutions enterprise features overview themes plugins google apps resources news support expert tips powerful website building features to help you publish anything, anywhere. choose a plan that works for you customize as much or as little as you want get help when you need it tell your story get started get started create a robust website … or a blog, or a combination of both. personal blog, portfolio, business site — it’s up to you. plans for any budget start for free. upgrade for advanced customization, security, and seo tools. or stay free! custom domains add a custom domain to carve out your own space on the web, and manage it right from wordpress.com. you’re in good company over 36% of the web runs on wordpress. wordpress.com is home to everyone from brand new bloggers and entrepreneurs, to major brands like time, ted, and spotify. realize your vision dozens of themes choose from hundreds of customizable themes, with new additions weekly. mobile-friendly create a mobile-friendly site with a click, or choose from a selection of responsive themes that look great everywhere. fast, friendly support get expert help — our team of happiness engineers is standing by. help when you want it support is available 24/7 via email and our community forums. for folks with a paid plan, happiness engineers are available via live chat for real-time assistance. tell your story write without worry our editor is fast, intuitive, and saves your work every few seconds, so you never miss a word. upload or embed media drag-and-drop images into posts and pages. create designer-worthy photo galleries. embed audio, video, and more. mobile and desktop apps update your site from anywhere with mobile and desktop apps for ios, android, mac, windows, and linux systems. own your content whatever you create on wordpress.com is yours to keep. export your content at any time — wherever life takes you, your content follows. find your fans built-in social sharing automatically send new posts to twitter, facebook, and more, and add social tools to help readers share. in-depth stats learn more about your visitors — where they’re from, what they read, when they visit — with rich stats. search engine optimized make it easy for new fans to find you with built-in sitemaps and other seo tools. all you have to do is publish. the biggest community of online publishers wordpress.com has millions of users. the wordpress.com reader helps them find you — and lets you find fascinating new reads. create a feature-rich blog or website today get started themes features blog stats vip terms of service privacy policy language: en an automattic mambo