skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about website cms best free web hosting sites – 2020 – ten of the best by jamie whether you’re looking to start a blog or you want to establish a solid internet presence for your company, creating a website can be a costly endeavor. most people are unaware of the expenses involved. not only do you need to purchase the domain, but you also need to host it on a server if … read morebest free web hosting sites – 2020 – ten of the best categories website cms wix alternatives 2020 – a guide to other website builders away from wix.com by jamie a web presence can be an invaluable marketing tool, and thanks to website building platforms like wix, creating a blog or online store is more accessible than ever. figuring out what you need in a site creator means understanding both what you need and what they’re bringing to the table in terms of site creation, … read morewix alternatives 2020 – a guide to other website builders away from wix.com categories website cms best free online portfolio creators – 2020 – showing off your best work for free by jamie the word “portfolio” has been around in the english language for more than 300 years. “portfolio” comes from italian by way of latin and is a portmanteau of the verb to carry (“port”) and sheets (“folio”) of paper, referring originally to the valise or case that was used to carry such papers. over time, the … read morebest free online portfolio creators – 2020 – showing off your best work for free categories website cms best wysiwyg – drag and drop website builders by jamie whether you’re interested in learning to create a website or want to start a blog without having to learn html or other coding languages, you may want to consider using a website builder that makes use of a wysiwyg editor. wysiwyg stands for what you see is what you get. in other words, as you’re … read morebest wysiwyg – drag and drop website builders categories website cms best weebly alternatives – website builders like weebly but better by jamie weebly is one of the most popular web builders available today online, with millions of users worldwide ranging from your hobby bloggers and small business owners to large ecommerce websites and big brands. weebly’s offering is excellent, so as you would imagine there aren’t too many alternatives that can match or exceed their level of … read morebest weebly alternatives – website builders like weebly but better categories website cms best free website builders 2020 by jamie getting on social media to increase exposure has always been quick and easy, but true online presence can only come from a website that glues it all together.having a nice website boosts credibility, establishes authority, and allows any business to display what it brings over the competition. having access to a customized website gives the … read morebest free website builders 2020 categories website cms 5 shopify alternatives to take your online business to the next level – 2020 by jamie for many, the all-in-one ecommerce solution offered by shopify is a great venue for their website, blog, or online store. the canadian company was founded in 2004 and its software was originally used for an online snowboard store. it’s an ecommerce solution that provides bumper to bumper coverage for online shops with only a minimal … read more5 shopify alternatives to take your online business to the next level – 2020 categories website cms best themes for ghost platform – free and premium by jamie in the world of blogging, newbies often hear or read about popular platforms like wordpress or blogger. however, because you are reading this post, it means that you have done your research and want to try out a more simplified blogging platform, such as ghost. this free open source blogging platform is the brainchild of … read morebest themes for ghost platform – free and premium categories website cms 21 best responsive shopify themes for 2020 by jamie i am a big fan of shopify, i think it is one of the best website builders out there especially for people who are interested in setting up an ecommerce store. shopify allows you to build a website from scratch by using ready-to-use templates or themes, without requiring you to write a single line of … read more21 best responsive shopify themes for 2020 categories website cms cart2cart review – making shopping cart migration a lot simpler by jamie e-commerce platforms are like smartphones – they constantly add better features, implement new looks, higher performance speed and tempting pricing policies. therefore, no matter how satisfied you are with your current cart – there will surely occur a new solution, within a month or so, that will tempt you to switch. and that’s a good … read morecart2cart review – making shopping cart migration a lot simpler categories website cms best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub