build a beautiful website fast pick a designer-made template, use our ai tools to customize it and get your business online today. no coding or website design skills needed.create a free website easy to use website builder build a website in minutes, not days we hate wasting time and money as much as you do. that’s why we put all of the tools to create and grow a website under one roof. get online fast and get found with zyro website builder. 01 choose pick a designer-made template that works for your business 02 customize tweak the layout, images, and words or add a video 03 publish make your website live and spread the word professional templates hey, good looking. designer-made templates can get you the website of your dreams, today. forget the long and complicated process of designing websites from scratch – our professional designers have taken care of things for you. choose a template and off you go. pick a free template fine-tune your website get creative from layout to colors, from pictures to font sizes, you can customize just about anything on your zyro website. your online presence is a reflection of your brand, so build that trust and make your business more memorable in the process. get started an innovative grid tool achieve pixel-perfection our innovative grid tool will make sure that things still look proper when you play around with the layout of your template. so don’t be afraid to get creative and experiment – the grid has got your back. build your site we’re future driven free ai tools zyro is a website builder that harnesses the power of ai to help you build next-gen websites, today. generate text with ai writer and optimize for conversions with ai heatmap. both tools will help you complete and publish your website quicker. generate copy 1+ million unsplash pics everyone loves free images over 1 million of high-quality pictures are yours to choose from when you build your website with zyro. with a library that vast – and all free too – the only thing you have to worry about is decision paralysis. get started for free no speed and device limits we take accessibility seriously reach your clients fast, wherever they are. by default, zyro websites are built for speed and will load quickly no matter where your users are logging in from. plus, they will work beautifully on any type of device. get a responsive website search engine optimized get found online we’ve got all of the seo bases covered. each zyro website is seo-friendly from the get-go. customize your page titles and descriptions to stand out on search engine results. start for free free business tools set your business up for success when you’re just starting out, every little helps. that’s why we’ve created a whole bunch of business tools that will help you get your company off the ground and set it up for a successful future. generate a business name and slogan, or create a logo – for free. start now 24/7/365 support we’re here to help our support team makes sure that each website created with zyro becomes a success story. do you have questions or concerns? we have people standing by 24/7/365, ready to help. let's talk website builder faq answers to frequently asked website builder questions what is a website builder? a website builder is a piece of software that allows one to create a website and publish it. normally, it’s a beginner-friendly way to get a website online, without much prior knowledge of website design or programming. zyro, our new website builder, takes care of everything for its users. from designer-made templates to text and everything in between, a website builder is the easiest way to create a website today. how to use zyro website builder? it’s extremely simple to use zyro. first things first, you’ll need to register for an account if you’re thinking of publishing a website. n.b. you can check the website builder out without registering for an account, but you won’t be able to make it live. then, choose a template that fits your business needs the best. we have a vast website design template library. customizing your template will come easy. everything is automated and intuitive with zyro. change the pictures, the text and the layout – colors and fonts are both fair game. when you’re happy with how things look, you’re ready to publish your website and share it with the world. is zyro website builder good for small businesses? it’s the best choice for small businesses, simply because it’s so quick and easy to use. we know that you don’t have the time or the resources that are needed to launch a website the traditional way. you can use zyro and get yourself a website today, without touching a single line of code or writing any text yourself. our website builder will do everything for you, so you can focus on running your business instead. do i need to know how to code to use a website builder? no. we have designed our website builder in a way that eliminates all need to ever see or touch a line of code. as you’re creating your website, simply use our intuitive grid tool and the drag-and-drop functionality to move things and make the necessary changes. you should leave coding for the pros who love doing it. you focus on what you do best. is zyro website builder seo friendly? it’s not only search engine friendly, but it’s already search engine optimized by default. we have designed our website builder this way to take the seo burden off your shoulders. so, when you start building your website with zyro, your site will automatically be seo friendly. however, you can change the page titles and descriptions as you see fit to boost your search engine rankings even more. how much does it cost to build a website with zyro? getting started with zyro is free. in other words, you can create and publish a website using zyro without having to pay a cent. hosting and even an ssl certificate are both included in our free account plan. you can upgrade to a premium plan if you’d like to gain access to more tools and functions, as well as to boost your site’s bandwidth and get more customization opportunities. can i build and host a website for free? yes. you can use zyro to build and host a website absolutely free of charge. from choosing a template, to fine-tuning your site and publishing it – there won’t be a credit card form in sight. we have partnered up with hostinger to make this happen. our premium plans are also very competitively priced, if you’d like to upgrade for more functionality and customization at some point. hosting web hosting vps hosting cloud hosting wordpress hosting email hosting cms hosting ecommerce hosting free website hosting website builder cheap web hosting buy hosting windows vps minecraft server hosting web design services domains domain checker domain transfer free domain xyz domain cheap ssl certificate buy domain name whois checker domain name search 99 cent domains free ssl certificate information server status affiliate program payment methods wall of love reviews student discount pricing youtube creators our mission is to make life easier for website developers and their customers. we do it by offering easy to use, fast and reliable web hosting services. and more help report abuse knowledge base tutorials blog company about hostinger contact us our technology career legal privacy policy terms of service © 2004-2020 hostinger.com - premium web hosting, cloud, vps & domain registration services. prices are listed without vat close flash sale check 30-days money-back guarantee check free domain check 24/7 customer supportview offer up to 90 % off close flash sale web hosting plans + free domain when you complete your order in ... 02 days 11 hours 17 minutes 12 seconds get my 90 off! up to 90 % off close flash sale check 1-click installer check php 7.4 support check optimized for wordpressview offer up to 90 % off flash sale: web hostingfrom $0.99 /month!get started ×