menu menu website speed test tools techniques optimization service website speed test tools techniques optimization service website speed test. save results to history tab test now test location: new york (usa) san francisco (usa) toronto (canada) singapore (singapore) london (uk) amsterdam (netherlands) frankfurt (germany) bangalore (india) use our website speed test, tools and techniques to optimize page speed and the overall website performance. studies show that when a web page doesn't load within three seconds 25% of visitors will already have left. a slow website or even a delay when loading a web page is guaranteed to lose visitors and therefore also potential customers. testing and optimizing page speed is essential. make use of the tools and techniques you can find on this website to optimize the performance of your website. how to optimize website performance. fully optimize your website performance. learn more about the various page speed techniques below. enable gzip compression reduce the size of your web files by an average of 60-70% by enabling gzip compression. optimize css delivery optimize css delivery for faster page rendering by inlining, defer loading, compressing and learning what to do and what not to do. defer load css defer load low priority css scripts to render your web pages quicker by loading them after the important above-the-fold css has loaded. leverage browser caching leverage browser caching to speed up your website. learn about the other various methods to enable caching server side and client side. defer load javascripts defer load your javascript files to improve page load times. inline css scripts instantly render your css by calling it from the html head. avoid the use of render-blocking css scripts. make fewer http requests make fewer http requests to minimize parallel downloads by reducing the amount of files your web pages load to a minimum. use less javascripts learn to detect and remove javascripts your web pages don't necessarily need to correctly load your web pages. reduce amount of functional images reduce the amount of image files your web pages load by combining or replacing them. set up the critical rendering path set up the critical rendering path to optimize the initial above-the-fold view your visitors see when loading a web page. lazy load images lazy load images and instead only load them when the vistors is viewing them. this speeds up the loading of the above-the-fold content. optimize images optimize your images by reducing their file size to a bare minimum to speed your website up. how to speed up wordpress optimize your wordpress website by using various plugins, tricks and methods. fix broken requests detect and fix all broken links, images and other files to improve performance. broken requests can slow your web pages down. use the right hosting which type of hosting is best for speed but also low priced? shared, vps, dedicated or another type? how to speed up apache learn how to speed up a apache server by tweaking its settings and using free applications. inline javascript code inline your (smaller) javascripts to improve page load times.. don't use css @import avoid using css @import to load external css files to avoid slowing your web page down. use asynchronous scripts load your scripts asynchronously to improve page load times. avoid javascript libraries avoid loading big javascript libraries like jquery for smaller functions. use a cdn use a content delivery network to provide your visitors with the fastest response & download times. enable keep-alive make sure you have keep-alive enabled to allow multiple browser connections without using multiple tcp connections. avoid redirects avoid using unnecessary redirects, stop them from slowing your website down. improve page speed. use one of our tools. use one of the below tools to improve your website speed. css optimization test analyze the css delivery of a web page. css compressor minimize css scripts for page speed. javascript optimization test analyze the javascript delivery of your web pages. javascript compressor minify your js scripts to maximize performance. gzip compression test test whether your web pages have gzip compression enabled. image optimization test test the image delivery of your website so you can improve it. png compressor reduce the file size of png images while keeping quality. jpeg compressor play with the quality and size of jpeg images to reduce file size. css sprites generator save multiple images to a single image to make fewer requests. caching test check whether and how your website files are cached. broken links/requests test test your web pages for broken links and requests. http requests checker how many http requests do your web pages produce? b base64 encoder encode web files into a base64 string to reduce http requests. keep-alive checker check whether your website has keep-alive enabled. line breaks remover remove line breaks from your scripts to reduce file size. http header checker check the http server header of a web page. © 2019 giftofspeed.com - contact us | privacy policy