home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 23 weeks pregnant – babies come with suitcases leyla preston sun 15th aug 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 23 weeks your signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. so something crazy happened. my sister exchanged contracts with her boyfriend to buy a flat earlier this year, but they abruptly split up. if they don’t complete by mid-september they will be in breach of contract and her ex is not responding to any of her emails/calls/texts to complete, so she turned to hubby and asked whether he wanted to take on the mortgage himself. hubby approached me with the news and i was shocked. we had been trying to find a place of our own for ages, and suddenly the offer had fallen into our laps. it’s a shame we’ve been presented with an opportunity on such bad terms, but i didn’t want my sister to suffer from a breach of contract because her ex was being childish and not willing to complete the deal, so i told hubby to accept and that my sister should get a percentage share in the property, so she doesn’t walk away with nothing. she agreed and both of them decided that her name and my hubby’s name would be on the mortgage. in a month, if things go well and everything goes to order we could have our own flat, which would be perfect for our little boxer to grow up for the first few years. the flat was also a five minutes drive away from my parents and was situated in a nice part of town, even though it wasn’t as big as the flat we were in now. but at least we wouldn’t be living in rented accommodation anymore if everything went well with completion. what luck!! in north cyprus, there is a turkish saying, “children come with suitcases”, which means that when you’re pregnant, the baby brings lots of things with him/her like money or even a house! as amazing as all this was, the developers and the seller’s solicitors would still need to be ok the change and then i would need to start thinking about changing my gp, where i was going to give birth and our antenatal classes. but fingers crossed this all works. i’m looking forward to having my own home. a fun fact – the baby weighs about as much as a large mango. the science part your baby at 23 weeks there is no mistaking that your baby is either a boy or a girl now! your baby has started to suck their thumb! your baby’s hearing has been developed and can hear you and your partner talk, read and sing to them – it’s the perfect way to bond with your baby before birth your baby can be startled by sudden noises like your sneezing. your baby is still somersaulting in your belly your signs and symptoms you may be feeling your dancing baby now crank the music up and let baby dance with you to the music! depending on how your baby is lying, you may even be able to see your belly move! you may notice your ankles and feet swelling up a little during the day, especially in the summer if you’re feeling a strain on your back, keep an eye on your posture and stretch your legs as much as you can. try to put your feet up when you are resting have you seen your linea nigra yet? your next steps keep an eye on your blood pressure stay active and keep drinking lots of fluids to watch your weight gain a hot bath may seem really relaxing right now, but the heat can trigger contractions and overheat the baby – so be careful! keep your partner involved in your pregnancy journey so they can provide emotional and physical support try and get in as much quality time together as possible start thinking about your birth plan, as well as your pre-birth plan, which involves babymooning and planning out the nursery. think about who your birth partner will be at the birth note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:buyingcontractshomemortgagepregnancypregnantpropertysuitcases related posts 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... how to keep your family home safe while ... pregnancy & stis: what to do top five tips for spreading the cost of ... how to make your rental business run smo... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... early signs of labour – and what t... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... should you really eat for two during pre... 5 minute interview with daniel alexander... the truth about breastfeeding 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... mumsnet bumpfest 2014 – pregnancy, labou... best pregnancy pillows 2017 how to keep your style during maternity 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... feeling guilty as a parent? don’t! switching energy suppliers when you̵... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... women have an equal role in gender selec... this may feel a little cold – the ... my way or the highway about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok