home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 21 weeks pregnant – found a new job and it suits my pregnancy well leyla preston sun 1st aug 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list your baby at 21 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. back from north cyprus now (wish i could go back!) and now i’ve found a job! i have been searching high and low for the perfect way to make money from home while i am unable to go out and work and i found a job opening for a self-employed legal transcriber. i am a fast typist (i learned touch typing myself) and i have a legal background, so i figured, as no one is going to hire a 5-month pregnant woman, what was the harm in trying out something new? to be honest, i’m quite happy about the fact that i don’t have to take the tube anymore – it’s even more of a nightmare when you’re pregnant! and, at least i can wake up and work in my pyjamas too. i’ve never worked from home and i don’t know what it’s going to be like, but i didn’t really have another choice to make money, so i was going to have to suck it up either way. so, i have been experiencing some embarrassing symptoms lately. i now have the opposite of constipation! it’s probably down to the frequent weetabix and fruit breakfasts i’m having, but i have about a thirty-second warning before i need to be by a loo. and, thank goodness i’m not working with other people now because i would feel very bad for them being around me right now… i also have quite a bit of gas issues. my back has started to ache, probably because of the weight of the baby, but i don’t care now because i finally felt boxer kick! i had felt flutters before, but now i definitely feel him, even though it’s not super strong yet. i tried to get hubby to feel the kicks but he said he wasn’t able to feel anything yet. oh well, in good time, i’m sure he will. i’ve also enlisted hubby in a part-time job – foot and back massages – and it has really helped with the back pain. i know that reflexology plays a part in helping with backaches, but ahhhh, i didn’t realise how much like heaven it felt to have your feet and back rubbed! i could get used to this extra special treatment. 🙂 a fun fact – the baby measures the length of a carrot – about 27cm from head to heel and around 360g. your baby at 21 weeks your baby weighs more than your placenta! your baby’s sense of smell and taste is developing now your baby’s bones are forming and they are kicking about and flexing their muscles. your little one is getting an idea of the flavour of foods that you eat, by swallowing a little of your amniotic fluid. they’ll soon get a taste for the food too! your baby is still covered in waxy vernix to protect their delicate skin from the amniotic fluid your baby is peeing and drinking it too – what a nice thought (!) your baby has started to make its first poo which is called meconium your baby’s facial features are also continuing to develop. their lips are now more defined and their eyebrows are growing thicker. if your baby is a girl, she already has her lifetime’s supply of eggs in her womb – about six million of them! if you’re having a boy, his testes are still in his abdomen but will start to drop in the coming weeks once the scrotum is developed. your pregnancy signs and symptoms have you been suffering from leg cramps? almost every mum-to-be does! massage your legs and flex your feet, as well as gentle exercise and drinking more fluids will help. elevate your feet when you can as well. you may well start to feel your flutters turning into kicks and jabs now. you may start to notice a pattern in the kicks too. your bump is definitely growing now and people will be able to see that you’re pregnant you may be experiencing nosebleeds, sore breasts and thrush. talk to your midwife or doctor if you are worried about your pregnancy symptoms if you’re suffering from heartburn or indigestion, avoid spicy or greasy foods, as these could trigger the burn! have you started to experience braxton hicks contractions yet? these are little tightenings in your belly as your uterus practices for labour. you may start to experience leaky boobs too. your milk ducts will be fully developed by the end of the second trimester. next steps book a babymoon break with your partner as this may be your last relaxing trip alone! if your baby becomes less active, speak to your gp or midwife straight away. have you chosen a baby name yet? note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:backachedietdigestionemploymentfinancesgasjobmassagemoneypregnancypregnantweek 21 related posts how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... mystery shopping and motherhood 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... how to keep your style during maternity 7 fun ways to teach kids about saving en... aron’s birth story aidan’s birth story thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... the benefits of walking during pregnancy 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... how much does a wedding truly cost? benefits of exercise during pregnancy what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of lab... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... breastfeeding twins planning for the baby budget: how to pre... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... best pregnancy pillows 2017 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... tips on how to cope with the heat during... press release – launch of motherhood dia... jack’s birth story about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok