home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving it! leyla preston sun 11th jul 2010 2shares share tweet pin i’m in north cyprus! the first thing i did was jump into the sea and it felt so great to feel weightless. plus the sea salt did wonders to my skin. on top of that, i felt fantastic, my skin had started to glow, my hair felt soft and thick, and, most importantly, my appetite was back with a vengeance. previously, the smell of meat would make my stomach churn but now the smell made me crave a turkish kebab. my family in cyprus hadn’t seen me for about five years so everyone greeted me with hugs and kisses and patted my belly in appreciation that i was adding a member to our family. hubby fitted in really well too and soon the family kebabs, drinking and evening dips in the sea felt like second nature to him. i still didn’t feel little boxer yet but i could feel that he was growing inside me. i felt so protective of my bump and whenever i would walk over rough terrain or climb steps, i’d place my hand over the bump to protect my little boxer. the heat was scorching at 40 degrees but the maxi dresses were perfect as they allowed air to get to my bump so little boxer wouldn’t overheat. if i had to pass on any advice to my pregnant gals right now i would say go on holiday now! the second trimester seems to still allow you to have fun without feeling too heavy and, well, pregnant. oh and buy a swimming noodle. they are perfect to keep you bobbing around on the surface of the pool and the sea and they are also great fun to play around with. if it lasts, i may keep the noodle for when my boxer grows up and plays in the water. a fun fact – the baby is about 12cm now – the size of an artichoke! table of contents the science part your baby at 18 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps the science part your baby at 18 weeks your baby has now up to 14,000,000,000 nerve cells! their heart is big enough to now be heard through a stethoscope your baby’s fingerprints are growing your baby is now yawning, hiccuping, sucking and swallowing! your pregnancy signs and symptoms your second ultrasound scan should be coming up pretty soon. this scan will check to see if your baby is healthy. if they are in the right position you will be able to tell the sex of the baby too! you might be able to feel your baby’s movements now are you experiencing swollen feet and/or hands? as long as the swelling isn’t sudden or severe it is just another niggling pregnancy symptom. the baby may be putting a lot of pressure on your back now so you may start to experience backaches. your next steps if you are struggling to stay regular then keep up with your fibre and water intake. green vegetables, fruits and whole grain foods are rife in fibre and prunes are great for pushing things along. avoid over the counter laxatives and stick to a healthy diet and you should find yourself getting going again keep your calcium and vitamin d levels up for good bone growth and development. it is recommended to take one vitamin d supplement a day. have you got a maternity pillow yet? you may be struggling to sleep due to your bump so now is the time to invest in some support. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:appetitebumpdietholidaypregnancysecond trimester related posts the 40 week pregnancy myth oral b pro expert premium gum protection... the other side of abortion top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... the truth about breastfeeding how to make annual travel insurance more... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... benefits of exercise during pregnancy is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... pregnancy & stis: what to do planning for the baby budget: how to pre... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... ghostly cork top 3 great things i want to do with the... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... what it feels like to be overdue… indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... things you can do before opting for surg... tips on how to cope with the heat during... how to learn a language during your preg... 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... win £250 just by sharing your favourite ... 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 7 reasons why you should take the family... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok