home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 27 weeks pregnant – my third trimester has arrived! leyla preston sun 12th sep 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 27 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i’m now in my third trimester and i’ve only got three months left of my pregnancy! house-wise, hubby is even more stressed and crazy than i have ever seen him, but i can understand why because he has been chasing the solicitors and financial advisor all week for progress on the flat and they don’t seem to be in any rush to complete by next week. he has sent back all the forms relating to changing his name and has requested a mortgage, so now we need to wait until that goes through so everything can move quickly. pregnancy-wise, the line down my bump, or the linea negra, is getting much stronger now. it’s very dark and hairy, but i don’t mind as i heard that it fades after the pregnancy. i don’t have stretch marks as yet, but i think i can thank palmers for that. i also think i’ve started to experience stronger braxton hicks contractions too. i thought i had actually gone into early labour at one point, but when i stopped for a bit, the cramps stopped and i was fine to walk again. my bump feels quite tight when that happens… i had my driving test… and i failed at the last minute! everything was going so well until i had to do a reverse around the corner and some van behind me was honking and beeping at me to get out of the way. i lost my nerve and swung back out to start again. the instructor failed me on the spot, saying that i should’ve stayed where i was and let the van go through rather than move out of the manoeuvre to start again. now i will need to wait until the baby is born to retake my test. but i’m so annoyed at that van for honking at a learner driver – how rude! people keep advising me that my brain is already tired during the third trimester and that i shouldn’t place any undue stress on myself, but it’s hard when you are lugging a big lump around and you still need to do your daily duties. i had a nice surprise phone call from my brother-in-law and his fiancé who are flying over from abu dhabi to stay with us for a week. it will be nice to have some company at home while hubby is at work, as i have been feeling a bit lonely lately now that i’m working from home. a fun fact – the baby weighs over 2 pounds and is about 14.5 inches long! the science part your baby at 27 weeks your baby isn’t so little now! your baby has officially started brain activity which will only get more complex from now on. your baby is already learning from the outside world, even while inside your womb, like their food preferences, their loved ones’ voices, outside loud noises and music – all this activity is increasing their brain activity so keep up the education by reading to them, venturing outside, playing music, singing and talking to your baby. your baby has nearly everything they need to start breathing. your baby’s lungs are still immature, but they would be able to function with medical help if they were born now. your baby’s tastebuds are well developed and they will start to react to certain flavours, which will shape their palettes. you may feel your baby hiccuping or kicking when you eat heavy or spicy meals your baby’s eyes will open for the very first time! your pregnancy signs and symptoms welcome to the last hurdle of your pregnancy – nearly there now! are you trying to picture what your baby looks like? it’s hard to picture and the uncertainty is probably making you feel overwhelmed. your baby will be beautiful, don’t worry! as your baby presses your stomach, the acid can force itself upwards which causes heartburn, even at night. eat light meals and top up with snacks if you’re still hungry. try not to eat heavy meals as they could cause indigestion and wind. eat acid neutralising foods like yoghurt and bananas, which also help with leg cramps as well. you may notice that your baby’s movements will have a certain pattern – consult your midwife/gp if you notice a reduction in movements. your back may be aching now and you may experience symptoms like piles (haemorrhoids). you may also notice varicose veins on your legs and leg cramps too. thank the 3rd trimester for these ‘lovely’ symptoms! not long to go now, though – stay strong! on the flip side – your hair and nails may be thicker and grow faster – or they may be brittle too (whoops!) how’s your pelvic floor? have you had little oooops moments (leaky pee when sneezing, coughing or even laughing?) this is a sign that your pelvic floor muscles are weak and you need to exercise your pelvic floor. the baby is putting a ton of weight on your bladder, so make frequent pit stops to prevent leaky accidents. your next steps even if you’re an experienced mum, you can still benefit from antenatal classes because pregnancy and birth advice is constantly changing and you may benefit from new ideas. speak to your midwife who can direct you to antenatal classes close by to you. it’s not too early to think about your birth plan and it will help make up your decision about b-day (birth-day) easier. do you want to have a natural birth? or do you want all the drugs that your hospital can administer? give yourself sme time to think and make a start – you can always change your birth plan later if you change your mind. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:braxton hicksbuying a housecompanycontractionsdrivinglinea negrapregnancypregnantpropertystretchmarkstestthird trimesterweek 27 related posts 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... natural ways to bring on labour how to learn a language during your preg... pregnancy & stis: what to do 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... bruce’s birth story ted’s birth story the reality of motherhood 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... best pregnancy pillows 2017 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... what it feels like to be overdue… the truth about pregnancy and childbirth are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy oral b pro expert premium gum protection... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok