home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 29 weeks pregnant – the end is near! leyla preston sun 26th sep 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 29 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i’m so excited about the prospects of moving to our first new home. we’re just waiting on hubby to be accepted for a mortgage and then we can start planning our move and changing nct classes, gps and hospitals etc. i am definitely going to miss our flat that we are in now though because it’s so spacious and clean. but it’s better to have our own so our little baby boy can grow up in his own home. i’ve also started to look up plans for the nursery. i was thinking about painting a sky for the top half of the walls of the room and an undersea theme for the bottom half, so our boy can see what happens up above, on the surface and under the sea of our world. whatever aids his development, right? i have started to get bad heartburn which is annoying. i drink about a pint of milk every night, but that doesn’t seem to help all that much, except that it does give the baby a good amount of calcium. sometimes, when i prop myself up in bed with my normal pillows, that seems to help the next day, so i’m going to try that from now on. i’ve started to get used to sleeping on my left side with my dreamgenii maternity support pillow, and that has helped a lot with sleeping in general. i’ve also started to put on some weight around the sides of my belly and legs. it might be down to the excessive eating (even though there’s no space left in my digestive system for food). i feel like throwing up afterwards because i’m still eating like a non-pregnant person. slow down woman! as a result, i feel massive, but at least i can blame the weight gain on my pregnancy. i keep telling myself that i’m going to lose the weight by exercising after the pregnancy, but a lot of mothers tell me that it’s hard to fit exercise in the first few months so i should take it as it comes and try not to put too much pressure on myself to lose the weight. i plan to breastfeed anyway and, apparently, you can lose up to 500 calories a day, which is amazing. if that’s not an effective weight loss regime, then i don’t know what is! i went to the dentist this week too. she advised me before she checked my teeth that pregnant women are more prone to bleeding gums and weaker teeth and so i should try and look after my teeth more than usual. she also reminded me that registered nhs pregnant women can get free dental treatment for up to a year after the baby’s birth. however, when she looked at my teeth she was quite impressed that they were still in good condition. i guess flossing regularly and brushing twice a day helps! hubby bought a changing table from ebay today. i am really impressed with it because it comes with a mat and looks in really good condition. we still need to get some essential baby items but we still have time, as long as boxer stays in my belly for a while longer. a fun fact – the baby weighs about 2.5 pounds and is more than 15 inches long! the science part your baby at 29 weeks your baby is about the size of a small chicken now! your baby is concentrating on growing and getting fatter now their organs are maturing too, ready for the outside world the vernix or sticky substance around the baby is starting to disappear now, ready for the outside world in just 11 weeks time! or more if you go overdue. your baby is able to open their eyes and even focus now. they will be turning towards the light outside the womb as well. your pregnancy signs and symptoms you may start to be feeling a little out of breath now. this is because the baby is pushing up against your lungs and the extra weight is putting a strain on your body how are you getting on with sleep? don’t be disheartened if you are unable to sleep because it’s normal to have broken sleep when a baby constantly presses on your bladder and keeps you up all night! your baby may even be active during bedtime too, which may stop you from sleeping as well. are you experiencing swollen or bleeding gums? keep up with your dental healthcare and regular check-ups are you experiencing piles, headaches, backache, indigestion and heartburn, bloating, constipation, leg cramps, swollen hands and feet, urine infections, and greasy skin? welcome to the third trimester! your next steps try to eat little and often to avoid heartburn and indigestion – and stay away from fatty and spicy foods as they just make things worse if you can, rest during the day and catch up on small naps if you are struggling to sleep at night. place a pillow between your legs and another under your bump. i also find supporting your back with a pillow helps too. if you’re struggling to cope, speak with your midwife or doctor – they’re there to help. if you haven’t done so already, starting writing up your birth plan, if you’d like one, that is. this is your chance now to think of your dream birth scenario and discuss with your partner, so they’re ready when b-day hits. think about what sort of pain relief you want, if any and whether you’d like to be standing and moving around or resting on a birth ball. of course, at birth, plans will change because that’s nature, but it’s good to have a skeleton plan of how you’d ideally like things to go. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:dental treatmentdentistdietdream genii pilloweatingexercisemovingnurserypregnancypregnantpropertysleepingweek 29weight gain related posts 5 self-help tips to keep depression away... how to improve your eyesight now pregnancy & stis: what to do how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... the truth about breastfeeding 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... ways that you can fit exercise and relax... aidan’s birth story how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... how much does it cost eat like an olympi... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... how to make your rental business run smo... best pregnancy pillows 2017 how to get fit with beats headphones get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of lab... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic... 12 weeks pregnant – blood tests today! 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... a day at champneys springs with lights b... noah’s birth story 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy five survival skills for kids that you s... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok