home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t look pregnant – i look fat! leyla preston sun 4th jul 2010 1shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list your baby at 17 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. on saturday, i took my sister-in-law to primark in central london, which was a nightmare. i don’t think i had ever been in such a claustrophobic situation before. i got elbowed and pushed in the belly so many times that after ten minutes i had to get out. it was a really hot day and i was looking forward to my trip to north cyprus next week. but, i was worried about the heat because i couldn’t even handle the heat in the uk. i felt so uncomfortable all the time, especially now that i was experiencing the oh-so-embarrassing (and ever-so-annoying) discharge. i heard it was pretty normal, though, so i guess had to grin and bear it. i figured panty liners should help me to feel less uncomfortable. i’m really excited about my 20-week scan. i get to see my little baby boxer again very soon! hubby and i are so certain that it’s a boy that we’ve started thinking of boy names. we seem to keep arguing about it though and can never agree on names, but one thing we can agree on is that we definitely want to find out the sex of the baby. my boobs are not achy anymore but they have definitely grown! i need to go to a bra fitting because none of my bras fit anymore. i took my husband to marks and spencers and mothercare for a bra fitting. m&s reckoned i was a 34e and mothercare thought i was a 32f!!! hmmm… i’m going to get a third opinion… hubby kept bringing me maternity swimsuits to try on but the whole process got me really depressed. the bump just makes me look like i have eaten too many pies! so, i opted for a tummy control sexy red swimsuit and a kaftan to hide the bump. until my bump starts making me look pregnant, i’m going to hide it with clever clothes, so i don’t just look fat. i also bought some maternity bras in a 36e (32 and 34 were too tight) and a sun hat, as well as some support tights for the plane ride. i told work that i was going to north cyprus for two weeks and they told me that, as my temporary position was due to end in the middle of my holiday, it would probably be best to work up until the day before i go away. i agreed and decided not to think any more about my work situation. i had already applied for quite a few jobs before i knew i was going away, so i was scheduled to hear back from some of them when i got back from holiday. it’s hard to look for jobs when you’re pregnant as you’re not really a desirable candidate, but there’s nothing i can do about that right now except wait for potential jobs to come up. i’ll deal with it all when i get back. time to hit holiday mode! a fun fact – the baby is nearly 11cm long and weighs about 140g – about the size of a large apple! your baby at 17 weeks your baby is busy growing skin receptors – ‘tact corpuscles’ – that will allow them to feel. your baby is occupied at the moment with sucking and swallowing – all in preparation for that first feed! their eyelashes and eyebrows are starting to grow and their unique set of fingerprints are starting to form. your baby’s eyes are still fused shut your baby’s hearing is also maturing and may move more if you play music to them. their head is much more in proportion to the body now and the bones are hardening and getting stronger by the day. your pregnancy signs and symptoms this is the time for some women when their bump starts to show. you may be experiencing a stuffy nose or even a nosebleed. this is down to increased blood flow and pregnancy hormones which cause the membranes inside your nose to swell up. if you find that nasal congestion is keeping you up at night, then you can purchase nose strips or humidifiers to help ease your nasal passage. it may also help to prop your head up with an extra pillow. you may start to feel a little off balance as your centre of gravity starts to change, thanks to your growing bump! you may start to sweat more due to the extra blood in your system as well. have you started to feel flutters in your tummy yet? around this time you might start to notice your baby moving around inside, although if you’re a first-time mum, this may not happen for a few more weeks yet. have you started to notice a line down the middle of your belly yet? this is called your linea nigra – if you don’t have it, don’t worry, not everyone gets it. you might also be experiencing weird dreams – this may be down to your hormones, but also you may be feeling nervous and in anticipation of your impending birth. are you experiencing itch breasts and tummy? your skin is starting to stretch as your baby is growing, so make sure you moisturise your skin well to prevent stretch marks your next steps if you haven’t done so already, think about exercises like pregnancy yoga and swimming, that will provide your body with support as it goes through all the changes. keep eating the right foods – fats are very important but too much can make you put on weight. stick to good fats and steam or grill food. your immune system has been suppressed to allow your body to grow your baby, so you may be more susceptible to colds. don’t worry if you have the sniffles or tummy aches as these don’t harm your baby. but, notify your doctor if you experience any other illnesses to make sure you have been prescribed the right medication because not all painkillers are suitable for pregnancy. do you know what your maternity rights are if you’re working? find out what you are entitled to and when. check out money advice service’s guide to maternity pay and leave for more information. get ready for your 20-week scan. it’s coming up very soon. will you find out your baby’s gender? note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* *contains affiliate links leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:17 weeks pregnantbloatedbra fittingbumpdepressiondischargeholidaypregnancypregnantshopping related posts 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... 7 reasons why you should take the family... 5 reasons why you should holiday in sici... top five tips for spreading the cost of ... becoming a dad 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... top five family holiday destinations to ... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... all i ever wanted was to be a mum music and the womb: myths and benefits o... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... aidan’s birth story 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... best pregnancy pillows 2017 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... oral b pro expert premium gum protection... breastfeeding twins 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... how to learn a language during your preg... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic... the benefits of walking during pregnancy 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok