home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 12 weeks pregnant – blood tests today! leyla preston sun 30th may 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below: if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 12 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i was scheduled to have my blood tests this week. i had never actually had a blood test before, so i wasn’t sure what to expect, but i was interested to find out what my blood group was. i sat in the waiting room of the hospital with hubby, as there was a twenty-minute delay due to the number of pregnant women waiting in the waiting room. so, hubby and i used this time to discuss boys’ and girls’ names. as i people watched, it was interesting to see women of all different shapes and sizes; some hugely pregnant, some with children, and some carrying big packs from bounty. i wondered what that pack was and whether i would be receiving a pack like too? i was given a form to fill out my weight, diet, height etc… and, as soon as i heard my name, hubby and i were ushered into a tiny room with two nurses, a bed, and lots of equipment to administer the injections. i was very nervous as i had a fear of needles, but the nurses were really nice and patiently explained the procedure to me. one of the nurses asked me lots of questions about my family history. as i was of mediterranean heritage, the nurse thought it was best to think about being tested for thalassemia and sickle cell disease. since i was having a blood test anyway i thought i may as well suck it up and get tested for everything, so i told her to go ahead and even offered them to do some research on what was left of my blood. the second nurse told me to lie down on the bed. i warned her that i was scared of needles, but she reassured me that she wasn’t going to tell me when it was going in or coming out. the other nurse started to tell me how exciting it was having your first baby and we discussed the different stages of pregnancy. before i knew it, the whole thing was over. the nurse then handed me a form that contained all the answers to the questions she had asked me before the blood test. i was to give the form to the midwife at my first midwife booking appointment. and i received my bounty pack too! i skipped down the street, thinking i was the queen of the world! i had conquered my fear of needles and believed i could do anything at this point. it was such a beautiful hot summer’s day as well, so hubby and i sat down on the grass for some lunch before we both had to get back to work. we discussed financial plans, parenting skills and where we were going to bring up the baby. we were currently renting so we discussed the possibilities of being able to buy a house. at the moment, it’s so expensive to buy a house these days and banks require a 20% deposit. where were we going to find that much money? renting was expensive enough and we felt the pain of paying straight to the landlord’s pocket. how would we get out of the vicious circle and start paying towards a place of our own? buying a property felt so far out of our reach at the moment. a fun fact – your baby is about the size of a fig, and is about 5.4cm long and weighs less than 14g – wow! the science part your baby at 12 weeks the placenta is now developed and is supplying your baby with oxygen the baby’s lower body is growing and it is now catching up with the large head your baby’s bones are continuing to develop your baby’s genitals are still developing but you will have to wait until your next scan to see the gender your baby is developing their own unique fingerprint your baby is building up waste to help them make their first poop your baby is starting to develop lanugo which is the hair that will cover them during most of the pregnancy. you may see some lanugo during birth your baby’s reflexes are developing and they are starting to curl their fingers and toes – you won’t be able to feel them move yet, but they are definitely making full use of that space in your belly! your pregnancy signs and symptoms welcome to the calm after the storm of the first trimester the placenta is lessening your hormone load so you may start to feel better at this point – you may still experience a surge in emotions though. find other mums to talk to online – or contact me! pregnancy@motherhooddiaries.com you may still experience food aversions, so avoid what you need and stick to what works for you your next steps continue eating a healthy and balanced diet for baby’s optimal development ensure you get plenty of rest during pregnancy as sleep boosts the growth hormone, which is important for your weight maintenance and foetal development make sure to include plenty of protein in your diet you can continue to take your pregnancy supplements if you are unable to eat a varied diet if you haven’t done so already, you soon should be receiving an invite to your first ultrasound. this may be the first time you see your baby and it will make all of this very real! if you already have your 12 week scan, please share in the comments below! *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:blood testsinjectionspregnancysickle cell anaemiateststhalassemia related posts 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... alfie’s birth story indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... the wait to become pregnant continues... this may feel a little cold – the ... planning for the baby budget: how to pre... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... healthy weight loss after pregnancy 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... the 40 week pregnancy myth tips on how to cope with the heat during... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... pregnancy & stis: what to do 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth imogen’s birth story 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... mumsnet bumpfest 2014 – pregnancy, labou... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok