home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 11 weeks pregnant – how long does morning sickness last? leyla preston sun 23rd may 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below. if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 11 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. 11 weeks pregnant and time had been travelling really slowly. i think it may be down to the really nasty nausea that i had somehow picked up in the last week. so, i resorted to buying ginger ale (which i’ve never drunk before, but tasted really nice) and having a collection of ginger biscuits by my bedside, so i could pop some in my mouth as soon as i woke up. but the morning sickness was relentless. i’d wake up in the morning with a sick feeling in my stomach like i was about to throw up, but i wouldn’t actually throw up. i honestly didn’t know what was worse – feeling nauseous and not throwing up or actually throwing up! perhaps i should have been thankful that i wasn’t spewing everywhere and i felt i owed that to the ginger biscuits which were the only things i could eat. a couple of my friends had told me that they knew of people who had suffered morning sickness for the entire nine months. what a way to make me feel better! i couldn’t bear to think about having this kind of morning sickness for that long, so i erred on the side of positivity and hoped that my nausea faded in nine weeks and not in nine months. the ginger biscuits were also a handy tool when i took the tube in the mornings and braved the million different “scents” of other people. once i sat next to a guy who had the worst body odour (heightened by the fact that i had a supersonic sense of smell) so i shoved a whole packet of ginger biscuits into my mouth before i even got to work to stop myself from throwing up. if i didn’t i probably would have heaved for the first time during my pregnancy… i also found peppermint tea to be quite soothing on the stomach after every meal, so i bought a couple of packets, and lots of bottled water, as i couldn’t drink anything else. i steered clear of fizzy drinks because they gave me a stitch-like pain in my back and made me feel very bloated. i had also been subjected to tons of advice from other women like: “don’t drink and eat at the same time!” “don’t each too much food because it’ll give you bad indigestion!” the opinions were hard. but i tried to pick up the good advice and forget about the rest. and, i did find it easier to just smile and say, “that’s great advice, thanks” rather than try and follow everything, otherwise, it became a bit too overwhelming for me. oh and one other thing. i wanted coffee!!! work had this awesome coffee machine that made amazing coffees and the aroma was so enticing. but, i refused to give in. i had requested some decaffeinated coffee pods, so at least i could satisfy the craving a little. i knew giving up coffee was going to be difficult, so i just needed to get through this pregnancy. plus, i constantly told myself that coffee would affect the baby, so it helped me to stop. i did conveniently forget that caffeine was also in hot chocolate drinks, chocolate and some nuts, so it looked as if i had a sizeable caffeine intake anyway. i hoped i hadn’t taken too much to affect the baby’s heart rate, though! we’ll see… another positive was that i wasn’t crazy tired anymore. i wasn’t sleeping fifteen hours a day, and i could feel my energy slowly coming back. i could get up in the morning without feeling too dead and i could even brave the tube in the mornings. but i still felt like i was on some kind of sleep-inducing drug. i may have not been sleeping all day and night, but i’m sure that if i was allowed to, it wouldn’t be so hard to do… a fun fact – the baby is about the size of a large lime or apricot (4cm head to bottom) and weighs around 7g the science part your baby at 11 weeks your baby is starting to look like a real baby now! your baby’s heart is beating twice as fast as yours and you may be able to hear it with a doppler ultrasound at your pre-natal visit the blood vessels in the placenta are growing to support your baby throughout the pregnancy your baby has a sense of smell now your baby’s sex organs are developing now your baby is practising breathing by swallowing and peeing out amniotic fluid your baby’s vocal cords are developing your baby’s arms and legs are developing your baby’s intestines are making their way into the abdomen your baby’s kidneys are functioning now, helping them to filter their blood to keep them healthy your pregnancy signs and symptoms hopefully nausea has started to subside, however, changes in hormones may meen that you will experience constipation and heartburn your mood swings are probably all over the place thanks to elevated hormone levels you might be started to spot the first signs of a linea nigra, which is the line that goes down your belly stock up on your fruits and vegetables make sure you get your daily recommended intake of vitamin d to make sure your baby’s bones are developing as strong as they could be your next steps make sure you’re getting plenty of calcium to ensure your baby’s bones are growing big and strong make sure you’re also getting in plenty of carbs to provide you with that much-needed energy. some great foods are whole-wheat bread and almonds, which are high in iron gentle walking is great exercise and relaxing too. look into maternity clothes – there are tons of fashionable clothes out there, you won’t even know they’re for pregnancy! have you started to think about sharing the news now? keep your caffeine intake and stress levels down so you don’t add any undue stress to the baby no more heavy carrying! your muscles will be more prone to strain as they are loosening to make way for the growing baby. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:advicecaffeineexhaustionginger alemorning sicknessnauseapregnancypregnantsleeptired related posts 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... the 40 week pregnancy myth 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... the other side of abortion 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... breastfeeding twins noah’s birth story pabobo dream theater product review and ... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of lab... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... early signs of labour – and what t... bruce’s birth story 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... 5 self-help tips to keep depression away... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... how to help kids sleep better at night sm’s birth story the truth about pregnancy and childbirth 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... benefits of exercise during pregnancy getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok