home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy has started to become a reality leyla preston thu 29th apr 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below: if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. it had started to finally sink in that i was pregnant now… i felt bloated and my stomach stuck out like a balloon that was about to pop. i had also started to develop a strong aversion to meat, alcohol, cigarette smoke and, interestingly, washing up liquid, which my sister would constantly poke fun at as my way of getting out of the washing up. hmm… come to think of it, i did feel a bit queasy when i turned on the hoover the other day… i had managed to acquire the skill of sleeping standing up as well. i don’t think i had ever napped as much as i did in the last eight weeks – i would come home from work at 7 pm and sleep until 11 pm, only to wake up to drag myself to bed. another side effect of the pregnancy was nagging constipation, which seemed to be constant and frustrating. i tried everything, from prune juice (which was disgusting) to laxatives, but the struggle continued. this was definitely not an enjoyable part of the pregnancy at all. and, just in case the constipation wasn’t enough, i also had back pain in the form of wind and, at work, i had to keep running to the toilet, just to make sure i didn’t embarrass myself in front of my co-workers. oh, and did you know that you’re also a human faucet when you’re pregnant and there’s no way of controlling it? the multiple pregnancy sources say that your kidneys are working more efficiently now, which is why you have to pee all the time. i had to tell work that it was my ‘condition’ that made me keep going to the loo, before they started to think that something was seriously wrong with me. travelling home with a bulging bladder was very difficult to deal with, especially when the tube was experiencing delays and i was deep in the throes of rush hour. the place was packed full of people pushing and shoving to grab a seat on the train. i wish i had a pregnancy bump so people would just let me have a seat, but i didn’t look pregnant at all, and i didn’t have the guts to ask someone to get up and offer me a seat. mind you, a while back, a woman had actually asked me to vacate my seat on the tube because she was pregnant, but she didn’t look like she had a bump. i didn’t even question it and offered her my seat, even though i was carrying three heavy bags at the time and the man next to me was available and carrying no baggage. i remembered feeling quite peeved at the man for not offering his seat to the lady. so, i suffered quietly for an hour, wedged between two people, and squeezed my legs in the hope that i wouldn’t burst my bladder and pee on myself before i got home. a fun fact – your baby measures about 1.6cm the science part your baby your baby is now called a foetus and is still in the amniotic sac, getting nourishment from the yolk sac the placenta is continuing to develop the embryonic tail has almost disappeared all the organs, muscles and nerves are beginning to function. the legs are forming cartilage and lengthening your baby’s hands now begin to bend at the wrist and the feet are losing their webbed appearance eyes may appear open as the eyelids have started to grow, but haven’t fused yet. eyes won’t properly open until around week 26 your pregnancy signs and symptoms you have probably missed your second period now. your figure may be changing now and you may need bigger bras. some women experience a little light bleeding during the early weeks of pregnancy. always mention this to your midwife or gp, particularly if the bleeding continues and you get stomach pain your womb is the size of a lemon now you’re probably feeling tired and your breasts are sore and enlarged you probably feel the need to pass urine more often than usual you may start to feel sick too your next steps null contact your gp/midwife if you experience any spotting, whether that is brown or red blood – it’s probably nothing, but it’s better to be safe than sorry! if you haven’t done so already, it may be worth getting your breasts fitted for maternity bras if you’re feeling constipated – prune juice works a treat! note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bladder controlbloatedconstipationmorning sicknesspregnancy related posts the reality of motherhood 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... noah’s birth story 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... benefits of exercise during pregnancy how to combat bladder leakage and streng... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... the wait to become pregnant continues... should you really eat for two during pre... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... healthy weight loss after pregnancy 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... sm’s birth story imogen’s birth story 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 12 weeks pregnant – blood tests today! about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok