home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 25 weeks pregnant – i have a nocturnal baby in my belly! leyla preston sun 29th aug 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 25 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. our baby is really kicking now and responding to music as well, which is amazing. he is such an active boy! when i’m working during the day, he moves around to remind me that he’s still in my belly and when i sing to him it feels as if he is dancing to the music. maybe he isn’t, but i like to think that he is. also, this baby is nocturnal! as soon as my head hits the pillow, he is kicking and hacking away at my insides – hubby and i think that he might come out before 9 december. we still can’t agree on names though – we have shortlisted a few names, but every time we ask other family members what they think, they shun the names away, saying that they’re rubbish or they’re too traditional… i think my advice would be to not ask other family members and go by what you want, otherwise, you’ll never pick one! hubby is really stressed out with this flat business at the moment. he keeps calling me during the day, demanding answers to legal questions like, “which insurance would we need on the mortgage? can you read this legal charge? are they right to charge us this much in solicitor’s fees!?” i wonder if we will complete by 22 september now – it seems to be taking everyone a long time to change names on the legal documents. i am determined to think positively about the whole process though. it’ll all get done in time, i’m sure… i’m still waiting for strong cravings to hit me. i wonder whether this incredibly strong sweet tooth i’ve gained during this pregnancy is a craving or a product of my low energy (even though i am nowhere near as tired as i was in the first trimester.) my bump is growing nicely too. i definitely look pregnant and people are now offering me seats on the bus which is nice. i am now firmly part of the pregnancy group! 🙂 a fun fact – the baby weighs approximately 1.5 pounds and is about 13.7 inches long! s/he is growing fast the science part your baby at 25 weeks your baby weighs the same as a cauliflower! you are probably feeling your baby a bit more now. touch and rub your belly now to remind your baby that you’re there can you see your baby’s hands and feet on your bump now? you may be able to feel a few hiccups too! your baby is packing on the baby fat now their wrinkled skin is starting to smooth out your baby is also growing more hair. their senses are heightening too and they can see the difference between light and dark they are also listening to you and the family when they are talking. your pregnancy signs and symptoms your uterus is now the size of a football, so you may be feeling strange when moving around. are you still getting leg cramps? unfortunately, it’s a common side effect symptom. if cramps are happening at night, try taking a warm bath before bed. your ankles may be swelling, make sure you’re elevating your feet and avoid wearing tight shoes. if you have swelling in your face or hands, then check with your docotr. you may be noticing thicker and glossier hair – thanks to your pregnancy hormones, your normally shedding hair is sticking around. you may also have more hair on your face, breast and belly. do a patch test on your skin before you shave, wax or remove your hair with cream as your skin is senstive during pregnancy. your hormones are all over the place, if you’re feeling down, loko after yourself and ask for help if you need it. your next steps pregnancy pilates can strengthen your back and pelvic floor – it’s super important to keep these strong for bright keep up the exercise as it will keep you healthy and it feels good too! keep up the fluids, especially drinking water. make sure you listen to your body and stop exercising if you feel dizzy. speak to your gp if you are concerned. get the family to chat, read or sing to the baby, as it’s a great way to bond. the combo of hormones and belly stretching may leave you feeling uncomfortable. make sure to continue moisturising to prevent or reduce stretch marks and if have itchy skin, talk to your midwife/gp to rule out obstetric cholestasis. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bumpbuyingdancingkickingmoving housenamesnightprepregnantpropertyweek 25 related posts what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... bathrooms.com ultimate diy guide for hom... pregnancy & stis: what to do 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... how to deal with the stress of moving to... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? should you really eat for two during pre... the evolution of maternity dresses early signs of labour – and what t... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... sm’s birth story aron’s birth story 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... becoming a dad all i ever wanted was to be a mum 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok