home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan is nothing short of amazing! leyla preston sun 25th jul 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 20 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. finally had my 20-week scan and, wow, it was nothing short of amazing! our little boxer looked just like a teeny baby. we saw everything – we saw the fingers, the toes, the heart, the spine and even the brain. the sonographer measured the size of boxer and reassured us that everything looked fine, which was a big weight off our shoulders. we were so desperate to find out the sex of the baby, that both hubby and i were nervous and very, very excited. i know hubby secretly wanted a boy, but i didn’t mind so much, as long as the baby was healthy. the lady turned to us and smiled: “i can tell you the sex of the baby if you want to know now?” hubby and i had massive grins on our faces and both of us nodded vehemently. “it’s a boy!” hubby whooped in the air and i just stared at the screen, grinning from ear to ear. amazing! we had a feeling he was a boy as well. i hadn’t felt pregnant before, but i definitely felt pregnant now after seeing our boxer spinning around in my belly. i’m glad that i got to see our baby boy as i was getting worried about not feeling him properly yet. all i felt were butterflies, but seeing boxer again just made everything so real. we decided to wait until the evening to call everyone spread the good news. a few of my friends and family were shocked that we actually found out the sex of the baby prenatally. i know that the choice is very personal, but why was it so shocking to them? we wanted to find out so we could prepare, i.e. buy specific clothes for a boy, decorate the nursery and get started on trying to find a name for our boxer. i get there are many reasons to wait too. my sister told me that with some families, it is probably best to not find out the sex of the baby as some families dislike having girls and knowing prenatally may lead to abortion of female foetuses. when i did a little bit of research on the net, i found that this was actually quite common in some areas. i found this article on the internet, “uk indian and chinese women ‘aborting girls”. i couldn’t believe that these women were aborting their unborn daughters so they can have more boys. have a read, it’s unbelievable! i was now walking on cloud 9! i had visions of my baby boy boxer running around and causing mayhem in our flat. i could not wait to see my baby now, i wanted to pregnancy to hurry up! maybe it was the hormones, but i flit back and forth from feeling pure joy to worrying about every little thing, like whether i’d be a good mum. or whether i would be able to protect boxer from bugs and diseases. would i know how to stop him from crying and how would i know when to feed him so he wouldn’t go hungry? experienced mum kept telling me to just trust my instincts, but i didn’t have any. would i give birth to these instincts the same time as my baby? i hope so! a fun fact – your little baby is around 16cm from head to bottom and weighs about 340g. about the size of a beef tomato. still so tiny! the science part your baby at 20 weeks your baby is covered in a sticky substance called vernix which protects their skin in the amniotic sac. it’s a bit like expensive body cream! the genitals are now fully formed and you will be able to find out the gender at your scan the most important organ, the brain, is developing quickly. your baby is very active stretching our their legs now! your baby has working taste buds now and gulping down quite a bit of amniotic fluid. your baby may be growing hair on their head now. they can hear your heartbeat and other noises like music your pregnancy signs and symptoms you are now halfway through your pregnancy! your uterus is now at the level of your belly button have you started to feel your baby’s movements yet? the increased blood flow and hormonal changes is causing your gums to bleed and damage teeth. make sure you are visiting the dentist regularly to combat this. don’t forget you have free dental care up until your child is 1! – you just need to get an exemption certificate from your gp or midwife. are you experiencing pressure on your pelvis? to relieve pelvic pain, try to stay active, but avoid movements that may cause you any discomfort. start sleeping on your side if you are not already, with a pillow tucked between your knees. i find maternity pillows that support both the tummy and back as well really comfortable. you may see an increase in vaginal discharge which will continue to increase until delivery. you may start to experience heartburn/indigestion as your baby starts to crowd your digestive system urinary tract infections are quite common. try drinking cranberry juice and water throughout your pregnancy next steps be sure to eat lots of iron to support your baby and placenta. now is the time to start thinking about antenatal classes for you and your partner if you haven’t developed stretch marks yet, now is the time to prevent or slow down the onset, by keeping the area moisturised. don’t forget your breasts, legs and bum too! keep up with your stretches to avoid leg cramps and keep drinking plenty of water. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:antenatalgendernuchal translucency scanpregnancypregnantscansexweek 20 related posts how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... breastfeeding twins aidan’s birth story top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... how to learn a language during your preg... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... what it feels like to be overdue… 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... the other side of abortion have multiple babies of the same gender?... the wait to become pregnant continues... jack’s birth story making the most of maternity leave 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... the reality of motherhood benefits of exercise during pregnancy 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok