home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 16 weeks pregnant – the morning sickness period is over! leyla preston sun 27th jun 2010 2shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 16 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. this week has been super busy, which means my energy and appetite have come back with a vengeance. it couldn’t have been better timing as i had my theory test today. the theory test centre was quite far away from home, so i had to jump onto a crowded bus and, as i wasn’t really showing that much yet, no one offered me a seat, so i had to stand for 40 minutes. to be honest, it didn’t really matter in the end because i ended up passing my theory test, woohoo! i didn’t have time to celebrate as i had two job interviews soon afterwards, the after hte other, so i had to run to the nearest underground station and travel into central london. it was lunchtime so people were scurrying around buying their lunch and the underground, as usual, was crammed. i had ten minutes to eat my lunch, so i ran to the nearest coffee shop and asked the guy behind the counter if any of the sandwiches had mayonnaise in them as i didn’t want to eat anything that may have contained raw egg. he couldn’t tell me, so i ended up wolfing down a cheese and tomato panini, which tasted like heaven – i was ravenous! it was at that moment that i had realised that my nausea had vanished and in place was a hungry appetite, keen to try anything i could get my hands on. image of me with a growing baby! the two interviews were quick and painless. the interviewer and i chatted a lot about work and pregnancy and when i thought i would come back to work. i hadn’t really thought about it much until now. i had been so swept up in the hormonal and physical changes of the first trimester that i had forgotten about what i wanted to do after the pregnancy! i still felt like i wanted to be a stay-at-home mum, but as i couldn’t say that to the interviewers, i just told them that i wanted to go back to work as soon as i was physically able to. i received a surprise call from my sister-in-law to be (my husband’s, brother’s fiancé). she had travelled down from spain on a surprise trip to england, which she said was an absolute nightmare of a journey. it was a really nice surprise to have her around, so i tried to make my way home as soon as possible. unfortunately, i had, again, caught the dreaded london rush hour after work, so i had to contend with standing in the tube all the way home. i booked my ticket to north cyprus this week. i was so happy that i finally had the chance to go on holiday that i started packing early for the trip. will i be able to handle the 40 degrees heat whilst being pregnant though? a fun fact – the baby is about the size of a pear or an avocado! the science part your baby at 16 weeks over the next few weeks, your baby will double in size. your baby’s eyes and ears are now in their correct position and their tiny ears will start to pick up your voice soon. your baby’s eyebrows and eyelashes start to grow you may start to feel tiny movements now as your baby is continuing to move around in your tummy your baby can now move every muscle in their body – their hands can now touch each other and discover that your umbilical cord is now a toy to play with! your baby can also hold their head upright your pregnancy signs and symptoms your uterus is now between your pubic bone and belly button you should start to feel more energetic – and ravenous! are your skin and hair glowing yet? you may start to crave strange foods. any weight you have gained is from the increased blood in your body, amniotic fluid and your growing baby. your baby can also yawn at this point are your breasts getting larger and more tender? they will start to make colostrum at this point which is the first milk – or liquid gold – you produce for your baby’s first feed. your lower back pain may start to curve more as you accommodate your baby, causing back pain and strained muscles. try to keep your back as straight as possible and in a neutral position. having a warm bath can help with back pain. your next steps the second trimester is a great time for you and your partner to go away as you will start to generally feel well – until you eat too much! you should have a 16 week check up with your midwife soon. your 20-week scan is coming up very quickly. have you kitted yourself out in fancy maternity wear yet? *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:englandexhaustionfamilyhomemorning sicknessmothernauseanorthern cypruspregnancypregnantspain related posts 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... should you really eat for two during pre... 21 travel hacks you need to know this su... the reality of motherhood the truth about breastfeeding 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... a toddler guide to tenerife 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... making the most of maternity leave oral b pro expert premium gum protection... all i ever wanted was to be a mum aidan’s birth story sm’s birth story benefits of exercise during pregnancy how to keep your family home safe while ... cytomegalovirus – what you should know what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... this may feel a little cold – the ... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... 41 weeks pregnant – finally my bab... how to involve the kids in your engageme... breastfeeding twins how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 2shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok