home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 32 weeks pregnant – things are really getting to me now… leyla preston sun 17th oct 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 32 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i am having such a bad week this week. we’ve been at the new flat for a week now and the place looks like a construction site. i can’t sort out the nursery because everything has been thrown into boxes and they are too heavy for me to lift. i’m bored at home by myself all day as there is no internet and the walk into town takes me about twenty minutes, which is fine one-way, but then my bladder is bursting by the time i get back home. i’ve put on so much weight, my belly is humungous and i don’t fit into any of my clothes, so i feel really rubbish. i probably look really bad too! my boobs have lost their perkiness and i’m just plain feeling sorry for myself – and i can’t help it! i try to snap myself out of this foul mood, but what’s scaring/depressing/frustrating me more is that i feel like i’m in a catch-22 situation. i can’t just go out to the pub and drink anymore, or i can’t exercise properly, or decide to take a long trip somewhere, or even fly to another country. and, when our little boxer is born, of course, i may be able to do some or all of those things again, but i’ll never be able to think about just me anymore. i know it sounds selfish, but if i want to go to the gym, or i fancy a trip somewhere, i have to make sure our boxer is looked after first, whether that means getting him a babysitter or he travels on the journeys with me. and, yes, of course, the thought of having boxer come with me everywhere is so exciting at the same time. so, i don’t understand why i have these battling feelings in my mind constantly – why can’t i just stick with an emotion!? maybe i should blame those pregnancy hormones – they are raging right now! hubby comes home dead to the world now that he has a gruelling journey to south west london from north west london, so we hardly spend any quality time together. he comes home late, watches a bit of tv, and then goes to bed early because he’s so tired. i feel like we’re wasting our time together as we have less than two months left before boxer makes his appearance. but what can i do? it’s not his fault he has to travel one and a half hours each way to work now. i have tried to talk to him about looking for another job, but i’m talking to a brick wall right now. and, poor thing has to contend with unpacking the boxes by himself because i’m too much of a beached whale to do anything right now. so, i’m not pushing anything with him. he has his own problems to deal with and i don’t want to add to them. my brother asked me if i was enjoying my pregnancy. i told him that it would be nice to be able to move about freely again and not feel so heavy. he said that i should cherish the time that i have with the baby so close to me, as these nine months of the pregnancy are the only times i will know where boxer is twenty-four hours a day. that statement really did make me think twice about my slump. of course! i should cherish boxer in my belly because once he’s out, he’s out forever and i can’t rewind that precious time with him inside me anymore. so, i decided to think of ways to snap out of my funk. i’d probably feel better if i had a project to do. i want to get started on the nursery, but i need hubby to shift the boxes first. moving on with the flat might also get rid of some of these emotions of feeling useless. i wonder if these feelings of frustration are stressing the baby out too? boxer moves about a lot at night but sleeps a lot during the day. maybe it’s because there’s hardly any room left in there, the poor fella. whenever i bend down to put on my shoes or pick up something from the floor i feel like i’m squashing him! also, i’ve noticed that whenever i rest something on my tummy he tries to push it away or feels around the area. it’s a fun game for us to play together and i really feel like i’m bonding with my baby. boxer, mummy is waiting for you! a fun fact – the baby weighs about as much as a large jicama or a coconut! the science part your baby at 32 weeks your baby looks like a little person, with fingernails and everything! your baby sleeps for much of the day. but, they’re still turning around and moving their head side to side now they’re sucking their thumb and kicking mummy in the belly whenever they get the chance now your baby may be head down now ready for birth, but if they’re still head up then not to worry as they still have time to turn baby is still practising swallowing and breathing in the amniotic fluid too. baby is also sucking to get ready for that all important first feed your baby’s digestive system is set and ready to go and their skin is no longer transparent your pregnancy signs and symptoms you may still feel tightening in your belly as you get ready for birth. they can be painful, so the way to tell if it isn’t labour is to change position and see if they stop. labour contractions will get progressively stronger. a warm bath may help to ease the braxton hicks contractions are you still experiencing constipation? regular exercise will help – even a brisk walk every day can really move things along! if you’re feeling light-headed, it may be down to low blood sugar. make sure you carry a protein and carb dense snack when you’re feeling a bit dizzy if you’re still experiencing leg craps make sure you elevate your legs and up your calcium dose your next steps keep up with your multivitamins and nutritious diet. your baby needs everything they can get in these last two crucial months continue to slater your belly in creams that help moisturise your skin keep a dream journal! your dreams may be getting super crazy, so it might be great to document them – you may even be able to turn them into a book in the future! try not to obsess about stretch marks – 90% of women get them and they fade after birth. your next antenatal appointment is coming up – at 36 weeks – and your baby’s position will be checked. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:babybloatedbumpdepressiondiscomfortexhaustionlonlinessmovingmoving housepregnancypregnantpropertysleepsleepingsocialisingweight gain related posts 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... thinking about your baby’s future:... 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... boy’s blues? what to do about male postn... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... women have an equal role in gender selec... 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... the best holiday destinations for new pa... tips for getting your child to sleep in ... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... press release – launch of motherhood dia... benefits of exercise during pregnancy 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... becoming a dad should you really eat for two during pre... my top ten tips for travelling with tiri... life after birth – back to work or work ... the other side of abortion is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... sleepless nights and children 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... noah’s birth story breastfeeding twins 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok