home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy third trimester prevnext 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t see my feet! leyla preston sun 10th oct 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 31 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. we picked up the keys to our new flat today and that means hubby and i are now officially on the property ladder! we bought a really comfy king-sized bed and an amazing reclining sofa for our new flat this week. those apart from the changing station and the numerous boxes and bin liners of our stuff from the old flat is all we have at the moment. we need to get a fridge, a washing machine, a dishwasher, and, most importantly, a moses basket for the baby to sleep in, and some bedding to go with it. i want to get a healthcare set and a bath set too so that i feel ready and prepared for labour. i will have to start thinking about getting a hospital bag too, but one step at a time. everything is getting too expensive as it is! i realised when i was taking a shower that i can’t see my knees or my feet when i look straight down in front of me. it makes bending down to shave or put on my shoes a real pain now. i have invested in a pair of comfortable uggs, but a size larger than normal because my feet keep swelling up. i can’t even begin to consider wearing heels as they’re way too uncomfortable hubby finds it funny that i waddle around like a penguin now too. i’ve put on a lot of weight which doesn’t help and my hips feel like they’re stretching outwards. i’ve also noticed my hands and fingers swelling up a bit too, so i’ve resorted to wearing my wedding and engagement rings around my neck, attached to my mexican bola necklace. i’m not actually having trouble sleeping at the moment. i reckon it’s because of the amount of energy i use up during the day, unpacking boxes and trying to sort out our new flat. we’ve been told that our internet is not going to be connected for another 3 weeks which means i can’t earn for 3 weeks either, doing my transcription work, so i need to find something to do otherwise i’ll just get bored. the only time i wake up to pee is about 5 minutes before hubby has to get up for work at 5.30am, so i’ve become his alarm clock in the morning. it must be because i’m such a heavy sleeper and i can’t feel that my bladder is full or that boxer is actively moving about in my belly. my left hip hurts from sleeping on my left side at night, though, so that’s the only real issue i have with bedtime at the moment. i try not to sleep on my right side because sleeping on the left improves circulation apparently and also helps to keep the uterus off my liver. a fun fact – the baby weighs about the same as four navel oranges! the science part your baby at 31 weeks your baby is the size of a coconut! your baby is still putting on weight and is gaining about 200g a week they are still very active, moving and spinning around and sucking their fingers to prepare for feeding. your baby looks less wrinkled now and the amount of amniotic fluid is still increasing your baby’s brain connections are developing rapidly – trillions are being made! your baby can pick up signals from all 5 senses now! they are sleeping a bit more now in longer stretches your pregnancy signs and symptoms you may be feeling more braxton hicks as you get to b-day. these are normal in the latter stages of pregnancy but can also mean that you’re overdoing it. it’s important in these stages to take it easy now. you may still be experiencing cramps, indigestion, heartburn and constipation which are all common symptoms of pregnancy. if you feel anything out of the ordinary, speak to your midwife or gp for advice. how’s your balance? the bigger the bump, the clumsier you feel. your next steps get familiar with your baby’s movements so you can spot whether there is a significant change in behaviour and pattern. if so, contact your midwife or hospital asap! make sure you are sleeping on your left side during the third trimester. research has shown that going to sleep on your back is linked to an increased risk of stillbirth. this includes napping during the day too. your midwife will be checking the size of your womb and which way baby is positioned. the ideal position is head down and baby’s back is towards your stomach. but, don’t worry if they aren’t in that position, there is plenty of time for them to move now. exercise is still important to keep you in good shape. pilates and yoga are great for exercising during pregnancy as they strengthen your back, pelvic floor, and tummy muscles, which is great for preparing for labour and birth. make sure you’re also keeping up with your healthy diet but remember you don’t need to eat for two – that’s a myth! note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bladderchanging stationcirculationdiscomfortexerciseexhaustionfeet swellinghealthcare sethospital bagmoses basketmovingmoving housepregnancypregnantsleepingwaddleweek 31weight gain related posts 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... 15 weeks old – is aron teething al... alfie’s birth story how to improve your eyesight now 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... ozeri 4x3motion digital pocket 3d pedome... 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... the truth about breastfeeding 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... jack’s birth story 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... tara’s birth story 16 weeks old – i need to get some ... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... ways that you can fit exercise and relax... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... the benefits of walking during pregnancy bruce’s birth story what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... becoming a dad 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok