home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is getting to me leyla preston sun 13th jun 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 14 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i attended a friend’s birthday on saturday, which involved some “light” lunch at a really busy pub, and watching england v usa in the world cup. i felt really uncomfortable as i wasn’t able to sit in one place for too long, but the pub was crammed with people and the toilets were quite far away. i still had to endure that horrible taste in my mouth after lunch, so i resorted to water for the rest of the night (after drinking one too many pineapple juices). by the end of the match, i felt physically and emotionally drained. as i walked home with hubby, i burst into tears. i think it was due to pregnancy fatigue and hormones, but i kept thinking, “is this it for me and my social life now?” i felt like i wasn’t ready to give up my youth just yet and that made me cry even more. on top of that, i had a really bad headache, which i put down to the excessive crying. hubby reassured me that i was going to be a great mum and that i could enjoy going out properly after the baby was born. nevertheless, i got home and crashed out for about twelve hours. plus, i really needed the energy as i had another birthday to go to the next day. thankfully this birthday was for only a couple of hours. getting up on monday morning was a nightmare. i couldn’t open my eyes at work all day and i walked around like a zombie. i couldn’t believe saturday night had drained me so much, so i made a mental note to put my social life on hold until after i’d given birth. getting home was also torturous. everyone at green park tube station were like vipers trying to get onto the same tube. i got pushed back and forth, and at one point, someone accidentally pushed my belly. it wasn’t hard, but i jumped at him and told him to, “stop standing on top of me. i’m a pregnant lady!” what made it worse was that i was desperate to go to the loo, even though i’d just been before i had left work. a really nice lady heard me and ushered me to the front of the carriage. until i got off the train she made sure no one pushed me, which was really sweet of her. on the way home, i was secretly worried about whether there was any damage as i felt a few cramps afterwards… the next day i asked work if i could change my hours, so i wouldn’t have to deal with that rush hour again. i also needed to start getting some maternity clothes as nothing fitted me anymore. after work, i looked around some of the shops to see if anything caught my eye. new look, next and h&m had some nice clothes which didn’t look too frumpy. it was also getting warmer outside, so i was looking for some decent maxi dresses that would cover my ever-growing bump. i couldn’t find any dresses that i liked so i found some stretchy black trousers from new look for work, which was really comfortable, and a couple of loose-fitting tops from h&m. i found going to the nearest car boot sale at the weekend a bonus too. so much stuff is given away for next to nothing, so hubby and i went a bit nuts the weekend before and bought two bags full of baby clothes! hubby was scheduled to play squash with his friends in the evening, so i had decided that when i got home, i would sit in front of the sofa, watch friends and the simpsons, and stuff my face with hubby’s pre-made fajitas – yay! i kept getting really hungry, stuffing my face, then paying the price afterwards with that horrible taste in my mouth and a stomach that felt like it was going to explode. i needed to remember to eat small meals slowly as, before the pregnancy, i used to inhale large quantities of food, so the habit was hard to break. i kept getting back pain in the right-hand side of my back, under my ribs. i couldn’t work out whether it was back pain or wind, but if it was back pain, then it might have had something to do with the size of my boobs! they had definitely grown a size, so i had to factor in shopping for bras as well. this pregnancy lark was expensive! a fun fact – the baby is about 8cm long and weighs about 40g! about the size of a lemon! the science part your baby at 14 weeks your little one has doubled its weight since last week and looks like a tiny little person. your baby will be covered in hair called lanugo which is temporary and its aim is to keep your baby warm in your tummy your baby is using all of your protein to help build strong muscles your baby is moving its knees and elbows giving him/her a much greater range of motion. and your baby will be doing all sorts of spins and somersaults in your belly now and can even stand up in your womb! your baby’s pancreas and liver are producing fluids now your baby is getting all their food and oxygen from the placenta via the umbilical cord so make sure you feed them nice healthy and delicious food! your pregnancy signs and symptoms you may be starting to experience an increase in appetite your nausea/morning sickness should be subsiding now if you’re still experiencing morning sickness, then try eating small amounts of plain food throughout the day to keep your energy up. potatoes and cereal are good because they are bland. i swore by ginger biscuits in all three of my pregnancies so try those too! you may start to experience heartburn due to your slower than normal digestive system. try eating fresh fruit and vegetables to combat the digestion fresh fruit and veg also provide that much-needed fibre if you are experiencing constipation too! are you starting to experience round ligament pain? make sure you’re eating a range of food packed with vitamins and minerals to stay healthy and regular. have you started to experience pregnancy brain yet? apparently, studies have shown that ‘baby brain’ is down to you using one part of your brain during pregnancy more as you prepare to bond with your baby. your uterus is growing continually and will be the size of a peach now. your next steps keep up with your dental health and brush well twice a day. make sure to floss regularly too stay active now to increase your health and stay regular. regular exercise has been known to combat constipation as well. have you decided to tell your friends and family yet? or are you holding on a bit more to your secret? have you told work that you’re expecting yet? do you know what your maternity rights and benefits are? you should have had your nuchal scan where the sonographer tested your baby’s measurements and the amount of spinal fluid at the back of their head. from now on you will be asked to supply urine samples to check for conditions such as pre-eclampsia and gestational diabetes. you may have been given your own personal growth chart too and had extra blood tests to test for disorders like patau’s and down’s syndrome note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bladderclothescrampsdiscomfortdrinkingdysgeusiaexhaustionfatiguefoodhungrymaternitypregnancyweek 14 related posts the other side of abortion how do our eating habits differ by regio... quorn meatballs and ‘getti (spaghetti) r... january healthy box 2015 – degusta... 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... how to prepare for a baby – the first-ye... breastfeeding twins bernard matthews launches new meal booti... cytomegalovirus – what you should know 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... turkish flatbread (gözleme) recipe 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... imogen’s birth story natural ways to bring on labour sweet potato chips, tomato and cheddar c... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... alfie’s birth story 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... 5-ingredient sweet and zesty roast chick... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... how to learn a language during your preg... early signs of labour – and what t... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... bruce’s birth story aidan’s birth story quorn – a healthy alternative to meat &#... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok