home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters have come through the post! leyla preston sun 16th may 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below: if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 10 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i received a letter in the post with dates for my blood tests (12 weeks), translucency scan and midwife booking (13 weeks). i read the enclosed booklet that came with the letters and was amazed at how many conditions for which i was going to be tested. i sat down with my husband and went through all the different conditions and i think i scared myself a bit that night as i dreamt about having a deformed baby. below are some of the tests that you can expect: a dating ultrasound scan offered at around 8 to 14 weeks of pregnancy to accurately work out your baby’s due date a mid-pregnancy ultrasound scan – or anomaly scan, offered around 18 to 21 weeks pregnancy to look for any physical abnormalities in the baby. blood tests which cover a range of screening for diseases, such as: sickle cell disease thalassaemia down’s syndrome edwards’ syndrome patau’s syndrome infectious diseases like hepatitis b, hiv or syphilis if you have a higher chance of some of the diseases above, further diagnostic tests are offered like cvs (chorionic villus sampling), usually done from 11 to 14 weeks of pregnancy and amniocentesis, usually done after 15 weeks of pregnancy. a fine needle is passed through the mother’s abdomen into the uterus to collect a mall sample of the fluid surrounding the baby. as i was talking through these tests through with hubby, i still couldn’t really believe i was pregnant. only mine and hubby’s family knew, so trying to act normal with my friends was really difficult. i started to feel a little more human, albeit i still found it difficult to stay awake or go anywhere near strong smells. i planned to be really good and cut out caffeine and anything fizzy. although i couldn’t really drink fizzy drinks anyway because it gave me painful wind and i would get very bloated and uncomfortable afterwards. i also wanted to aim to have my 5-a day and eat lots of carbs and proteins so our little baby could grow up to be a strong boy/girl a fun fact – your baby is now swallowing and kicking! the science part your baby at 10 weeks your baby is officially a foetus – with teeth! your baby is around the size of a prune or strawberry at 3.3cm and weighs around 4g. baby’s vital organs are developed and they’re starting to function baby’s fingernails and hair are starting to appear too s/he will start to have muscle control and can make a fist. they are also using their hands to feel their face and mouth the baby’s nose has developed and they have a sense of smell now. this continues to develop over the next few months if you’re having a boy, they are already producing testosterone the baby’s head makes up half of their size, but this will change soon your baby’s appetite is growing fast your baby now has a fully formed heart which is beating faster than yours their tiny eyebrows are beginning to grow your pregnancy signs and symptoms your morning sickness should start to ease off soon. if so, watch out for surges in your appetite you may still feel bloated as your digestive system slows down you may start to lose your breath quickly when working out are you experiencing any back pain yet? you might still be feeling emotional are you craving weird foods yet? you may be more prone to dehydration as your body temperature increases during pregnancy. make sure you are drinking a lot of liquids tiny blue lines may start to develop around your boobs – don’t panic, your veins are expanding to carry the increased blood supply to your baby are you still experiencing frequent urination? and funny dreams that wake you up? try writing them down so you can look back at them later your figure may start to change and you might go off sex – or want it all the time! those ragining hormones are to blame. your next steps start some light exercise if you’re feeling up to it keep eating foods that are high in vitamins and rich in folate/folic acid record your funny dreams so you have something to look back at later keep taking your pregnancy bumps start thinking and preparing for your screening tests note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:aidsappointmentsbloatedblood groupblood testsdietdiscomfortdown's syndromehaemoglobin levelshepatitis bhepatitis chivmidwife bookingpregnancyrhesus negativerhesus positiverubellasickle cell diseasesyphilisthalassemiatoxoplasmosistranslucency scanwind related posts mumsnet bumpfest 2014 – pregnancy, labou... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... alfie’s birth story birth partners: doula or don’t ya? help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... the other side of abortion 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! pregnancy & stis: what to do 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... aron’s birth story early signs of labour – and what t... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... oral b pro expert premium gum protection... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... healthy weight loss after pregnancy the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... 11 weeks pregnant – how long does ... home hiv tests save lives – so why the c... sm’s birth story about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok