home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 15 weeks pregnant – time is really flying now leyla preston sun 20th jun 2010 1shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 15 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i have one more week before i hit four months into my pregnancy! how did that happen?? i cannot believe how time is really flying now. i am still experiencing some pregnancy symptoms – i woke up with a really stuffy nose and thought i was catching a cold, but i then consulted google and found that it’s normal around around the 15th week of pregnancy to feel congested. i don’t feel like the constipation is getting any better either, even though i feel like i’m eating a lot of fibre. i’m eating cereal for breakfast, eating wholemeal bread and eating lots of fruit and veg, so i hope my clean diet will start to make a difference soon. i also bought some bio oil for my bump because it is definitely getting bigger. i want to avoid getting stretch marks and i’ve been told by my friends that bio oil is the best for stretch marks. i really like palmers cocoa butter too and have been using that for my whole body – the smell is so delicious as well! the baby is about 10cm now! i measured 10cm against my belly and s/he is still so teeny tiny. i haven’t felt any flutters yet either – apparently, it feels like gassy bubbles in your stomach, so i’m looking forward to feeling the kicks and prods from my baby, who apparently is acting like a gymnast this week. my theory test is coming up, so i’ve bought my theory book at lunch to study, but the food has made me so sleepy that i can’t concentrate on the questions. i need to be able to drive to places, so i have to focus on getting my license before the baby is born – fingers crossed! a fun fact – the baby is small enough to fit into the palm of your hand – about the size of orange! the science part your baby at 15 weeks your baby is working on their sense of smell now, but they can’t detect any smells yet. their tiny chest can inhale, which kick starts the olfactory system your baby is sucking their thumb and wriggling about at the moment. these movements are great for coordination and building strength. you are unlikely to feel these movements yet, although some people say they can feel little flutters in their tummy, especially if your placenta is in the back wall. your baby is practising breathing by swallowing amniotic fluid they’re gaining more weight too! your baby’s external genitalia is now complete the placenta is now developed and is transporting all the oxygen your baby needs your baby’s tastebuds are formed and functioning your pregnancy signs and symptoms you might have regained your energy now or feeling a little depressed – both are normal reactions but be sure to mention to the doctor or midwife if you are concerned. they are there to help with the emotional side of pregnancy too. you may be feeling some backache and constipation. exercise is great to help move things along. just 30 minutes a day will suffice. you may be starting to notice changes in your hair and skin during the second trimester which will bring about that legendary ‘glow’. if you haven’t experienced this glow yet, not to worry, it will come for you soon! your next steps keep drinking lots of water as the hormone progesterone is slowing down the movement of food through your system which is why you may feel a little constipated. seek out fibre-rich foods and if you need a little extra help, prune juice or gentle medication can work a treat! having sex won’t harm your unborn baby unless your doctor has advised against it. double check with your doctor if you’re feeling frisky and are unsure whether you are ok to proceed. you don’t need contraception! your emotional wellbeing is very important during pregnancy – staying cool, calm and collected will help your little baby to stay the same – and develop properly too! have you had your blood tests yet? if not that’s due to come soon! hopefully, you should have had your scan by now. it may be time to find a new way of sleeping as your bump grows – you can start to support your bump with maternity pillows, which help you to sleep on your left side more comfortably. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin*contains affiliate links contains affiliate links leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:bloatedconstipationexhaustionpregnancypregnantstretch markstheory test related posts 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... tips on how to cope with the heat during... 12 weeks pregnant – blood tests today! 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! the reality of motherhood the 40 week pregnancy myth birth partners: doula or don’t ya? the wait to become pregnant continues... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... how to learn a language during your preg... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... benefits of exercise during pregnancy 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... natural ways to bring on labour pregnancy & stis: what to do 10 weeks pregnant – appointment letters ... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... all i ever wanted was to be a mum 39 weeks pregnant – no sign of lab... the other side of abortion 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok