home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all the time leyla preston thu 22nd apr 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below: if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby you your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. it wasn’t the most ideal of situations, but i had quit my permanent legal job back in february because i was struggling to find the motivation to enjoy the thankless stress and endless hours. so, i decided to take a few months off to sort my head out and rethink my career. about three months after the soul searching, i found out that i was pregnant… scared at the thought of an additional mouth to feed and only one income to live on, i searched high and low for any temp jobs that would cover my finances until birth and i finally found a full-time role at a legal consultancy in mayfair. i felt relieved that i could contribute some sort of income, which i could at least add to savings when i wasn’t able to work anymore. but, after enjoying a few months of a relaxed, unemployed lifestyle and getting up late every day, the first day of waking up early to travel to central london via underground was exhausting! i hadn’t even thought about the possibility that my new pregnancy was the culprit for my permanent zombie-like state, but i didn’t think the early starts and late finishes had helped much either. it had felt like a long time since i had been on the tube and the hordes of people were making me feel slow and heavy. i had been working in the city for three years prior, so i was used to the hustle and bustle of london. but right now i just needed silence and space, and the reality was quite the opposite. weaving in and out, past the commuters on their way to work was quite a chore and i was glad to finally reach the building where i would start my temporary placement. i immediately got to work, reviewing some legal documents and reading up on the company i was working for. it was only the beginning of the work day, but all i wanted to do was sleep, and a male employee next to me was chatting away and staring at me as if to expect a response, but i hadn’t listened to a word he had said. i just couldn’t focus or shake off this strange zonked out feeling. i wasn’t feeling sick or anything, just… weird. i tried to carry on as normal, but, by the afternoon, after rather a lot of questionable looks from other members of staff, i had to tell people that i was pregnant. i was greeted with a chorus of ‘ooooooohs’ and ‘aaaaahs’, and then the questions started. “how many weeks pregnant are you?” “do you know the sex of the baby?” “how do you feel?” “any cravings yet?” it was nice that they cared, but i just wanted the room to be quiet, so i could stay hidden – in fact, i really wanted to sleep! i had read somewhere, through my thorough research that i was supposed to glow, but all i could see was grey skin in front of the mirror. where was this glow that these internet sources promised me? i started noticing a change in my sense of smell too. when hubby fried some eggs in the morning, i had to walk out of the room because the smell was so overbearing that it made me nauseous. this was definitely a pregnancy symptom because i love eggs. on friday, hubby headed off to the pub after work and asked me if i wanted to join him. i would have normally jumped at the chance, but after a very long first week back at work, my tired bones just wanted to sleep. when i got home, i instantly regretted not going with hubby, as the pangs of loneliness and depression started kicking in. it was the first time i had stayed at home on a friday night by myself. instead of wallowing in pity, however, i decided to invite my best mate over for some mexican takeaway and singstar. i couldn’t touch any of the strong mexican food, despite the fact that i was starving before the food had arrived. this was becoming quite a regular occurrence now and it was driving me mad. my eyes were hungry, but my unborn baby would be like, “nope, not eating that!” so i would end up wasting so much food. i managed to coax my foetus into snacking on dry, bland nachos, which was actually a vast improvement to the bland toast and ginger biscuits that i’d managed to eat until now. having my best mate over for some takeaway and games had cheered me up a lot. i managed to forget about being pregnant for a little while, despite the occasional bouts of nausea when watching her scoff the mexican food. when she had left for home, hubby had popped through the door in his drunken self and crashed out on my lap. quite honestly, i felt like doing the same. i couldn’t believe something so small was having such an effect on me. i read, on one of the websites, that the baby was only the size of a grape, so i was surprised that this little grape had completely knackered me. but i love grapes all the same. a fun fact – your baby is the size of a grape! the science part your baby your baby has grown to about 10mm long, from crown (head) to rump (bottom) the head and brain is starting to grow rapidly the inner ear starts to develop now the nervous system is now starting to take shape and the nerve cells continue to multiply the black dots that are the baby’s eyes are now visible on an ultrasound you you won’t feel it, but your baby is moving around in your belly! your emotions might be swinging up and down at the moment due to the changing level of hormones in your body. this is very normal in the early stages of pregnancy still, continue your moderate exercise if you have done so before because this helps relieve stress of the pregnancy on your body – it also clears the cobwebs a little bit and gives you a bit more energy. speak to your midwife/gp first to confirm you can exercise. don’t take up any contact sport! try and eat well and keep yourself fit and healthy during these early stages of pregnancy you may want to start telling friends and family – it is your choice there may be good reasons to keep quiet at this early stage too – read a story about pregnancy after a miscarriage here why don’t you take a break and go on holiday whilst you still can and before you get too big! food hygiene is extremely important at this stage as any food related illnesses could be potentially harmful to the baby – read an article about cytomegalovirus (cmv) – what you should know to prevent your unborn baby from contracting cmv a fun fact – your baby’s heart begins to beat! your next steps making sure you’re eating all the right foods for the baby to develop well think about getting the flu shot if it’s flu season – it’s worse to get the flu during pregnancy! get in some light exercise if your gp/midwife has cleared it – it helps with the nausea take your prenatal vitamins if you are not doing so already note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:depressionpregnancypregnantsleepsmellsymptoms related posts 8 weeks pregnant – the pregnancy h... how to help kids sleep better at night 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... pabobo dream theater product review and ... the reality of motherhood 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... 23 weeks pregnant – babies come wi... 19 weeks pregnant – have i develop... best pregnancy pillows 2017 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy boy’s blues? what to do about male postn... 33 weeks pregnant – it’s my ... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... breastfeeding twins how to learn a language during your preg... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... the truth about breastfeeding 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... this may feel a little cold – the ... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... aidan’s birth story noah’s birth story from a ghost pregnancy (negative pregnan... what are the effects of too much screen ... natural ways to bring on labour sm’s birth story about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok