home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 19 weeks pregnant – have i developed my first craving? leyla preston sun 18th jul 2010 0shares share tweet pin i am very, very excited and feeling very, very happy this week. i’m sitting by the sea, under the beautiful hot sun, eating lots of meat and wondering what next week’s 20-week scan is going to be like. a part of me is sad that this holiday would be the last time hubby and i would ever go on holiday as a twosome, and it does make me nervous that everything is changing so quickly, but i would love to bring little baby boxer to north cyprus to sample the sun, sea and awesome food one day. so, now, i’m just anxious to meet my baby now! i have also got my energy back with a vengeance so i’ve been doing a lot of sightseeing this week, which is good as i’ve managed to squeeze in plenty of important exercise. i am definitely getting my appetite back – i can’t stop eating meat and the family can’t stop feeding me meat. at one point, i thought i had developed my first craving for cheese, tomato and cucumber sandwiches. but, after eating 5 sandwiches in one day, i now can’t stand the sight of them. i reckon when your body needs something you develop a craving and as soon as you fulfil that need, you no longer have that craving. so that meant that i needed carbs, calcium and vitamin c – well that made sense. i am glad i am having relatively healthy cravings though and not craving cakes and biscuits. what are cravings though? why do you have them? is it your body telling you that you need something? i am positively baking in the cypriot heat. i wonder if the heat is actually good for the baby? i know that you should never overheat or get too cold as the baby can’t regulate its own temperature. but, surely the vitamin d is good for bone growth, right? i’m also using cocoa butter skin therapy oil like it’s going out of fashion at the moment! the heat creates a natural sweat, so i think i’m well and truly oiled up this holiday. a fun fact – the baby can hear you now! table of contents the science part your baby at 19 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps the science part your baby at 19 weeks your baby is as big as a mango! your baby is still small enough to wriggle with room, and they are using the space well! they are somersaulting, wriggling, pedalling and kicking inside you you may even be able to see a tiny limbs through your skin! if movements keep you up at night, try gently rubbing or talking to your bump to settle your baby. this will also help you bond together as well. your baby will love to hear your soothing voice to comfort them. your baby is developing a protective coating over their skin called vernix caseosa. it’s white and greasy and you may see some of it when you give birth. your pregnancy signs and symptoms you are now about halfway through your pregnancy if you haven’t done so already, you should start exercising your pelvic floor as your pelvic floor muscles hold everything in place. you can find more information on how to exercise your pelvic floor muscles here. you may experience aches and pains in your belly. these are caused by your muscles stretching to accommodate your growing baby. if your pain is severe, constant and/or accompanied with any other symptoms like bleeding, contact your gp/midwife straight away. you may start to feel dizzy and lightheaded if you feel leg cramps, extend your leg and flex your feet. get your partner to stretch your calf muscles your next steps you may have a lot of questions related to your pregnancy. speak to your gp or midwife as they will be happy to answer these questions for you. antenatal classes are a great way to learn more about labour and birth your 20-week scan is coming up soon! have a think about whether you want to know the sex of the baby or not. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:cravingenergyfoodheatpregnancypregnantskinweek 19 related posts boost your breakfast with sown & gr... genucel helps curb the visible signs of ... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... becoming a dad healthy weight loss after pregnancy how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... 16 weeks pregnant – the morning si... 25 weeks pregnant – i have a noctu... june 2015 – picnic degustabox product re... fish & chips recipe with a twist! all i ever wanted was to be a mum 15 kitchen tools and equipment you will ... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... switching energy suppliers when you̵... benefits of exercise during pregnancy what it feels like to be overdue… june 2014 – degustabox product rev... how to keep your style during maternity sm’s birth story how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... grilled bell peppers drizzled with clove... getting past distrust: pregnancy after a... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok