home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy third trimester prevnext 35 weeks pregnant – finally got my hospital bag packed and ready leyla preston wed 30th jan 2013 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list for me: for the baby the science part your baby at 35 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. finally bought my hospital bag and packed it all up nicely. this is what i included (with links to where to buy on amazon (they’re affiliate links by the way which means i may earn a small commission at no extra cost to you if you buy via that link)): for me: nightie dressing gown bath towel face wipes old nightie for birth disposable knickers glasses/contact lenses snacks and water breast pads lip balm phone or something to play music on water spray slippers toiletries (toothpaste, toothbrush, shampoo, conditioner, body wash, razor, shaving cream, moisturiser, body lotion, hair cream/gel) – bear in mind i use coconut oil for my shaving cream, moisturiser, body lotion and hair product! saves a lot of space in the bag 🙂 nursing bras maternity notes massage oil and lotion maternity towels swimming costume top for a water birth comfortable clothes for going home shampoo and conditioner camera phone magazines for the baby cotton wool balls newborn nappies nappy sacks vests sleepsuits clothes to go home in hat/booties/socks/mittens blanket muslin squares snowsuit car seat (of course, we didn’t pack the car seat in the hospital bag! but, we’re bringing it with us to take boxer home) i also created an infographic which you can pin to your pinterest board or just print it out and stick to your fridge to help you prepare your hospital bag. just click on the image below to make it larger. we had our third and fourth antenatal sessions this week, which were very informative. we went around the group and we each shared the names we had thought of for our baby and how we were planning to give birth. hubby and i said that we were thinking about the name aron and planning to have a water birth at our local birth centre next door to our flat. people were quite intrigued about the birth centre as they were all planning to give birth at the hospital near to their house. i think we even managed to sway a few couples into taking a look at their local birth centres when they went home. the nct counsellor also taught us the brain analysis, which she advised we should always think about when faced with something we question. brain stands for: what are the benefits? what are the risks? are there any alternatives? what is your instinct telling you? what happens if you do nothing? i’m definitely going to think about the brain analysis whenever i’m faced with a dilemma. we also talked about the different kinds of pain relief during labour and hubby and i had to present the tens machine to the rest of the group which was fun. i even tried out the tens machine at the class, but i’m not sure it is for me, to be honest. i’m not really a fan of electrical currents. perhaps i’ll think differently when i’m in pain, though! we mums got the chance to discuss our pregnancies and bumps without the dads around. my bump definitely looked like the largest of all the bumps and i’m fifth in line to give birth! maybe i should lay off all the food i’ve been eating… i’ve noticed that my hands swell up during the day and then the swelling goes down when i go to sleep. i wonder why it goes down when i go to sleep? someone told me it’s all the water retention from standing up. i don’t mind, as long as it’s not pre-eclampsia! the baby is also very active when there are lots of people talking in a group, which is why, when i’m at these sessions, boxer is hula hooping, kicking, stretching and basically doing gymnastics in my belly. i wonder whether he enjoys the noise or he finds it disturbing, i can’t tell yet. but i know he loves it when i stroke him and i’m pretty sure he sticks his bum out when he wants some of mummy’s touch. i can’t wait to meet our little boxer. i feel like he has a character already. and, there’s not long to go too! i’m so nervous about the birth, but i just know that, whatever happens, our beautiful bundle of painful joy will light up mine and hubby’s life when he arrives into the new world forever. i can’t wait! a fun fact – your baby weighs approximately 5.5lbs and is as big as a pineapple! the science part your baby at 35 weeks your baby has less and less space to move now. they can still shift and squirm a bit though you should be able to see their movements on your belly now your baby’s lungs are fully formed and ready for breathing in the outside air your baby’s central nervous system is also becoming more mature they can suckle ready for that all-important first feed your baby’s head may be engaged now as they make their way down your pelvis – you may feel slight ease on your lungs and you be able to breathe better – this is called lightening your pregnancy signs and symptoms your placenta has grown and is now a quarter of the weight of your baby your body is preparing for that first feed by producing liquid gold, colostrum – milk production is on! you may leak a bit of colostrum before birth though. are you feeling a little pain with movements? don’t worry, this is normal as there isn’t much room for the baby to move about braxton hicks contractions may be more frequent too and getting more intense. take it easy and put your feet up when you can if your baby is not in the optimum position for birth yet, you can give them a bit of a helping hand by doing a bit of moving yourself. spend some time on all fours and wriggle your hips to gently encourage baby to turn. bouncing on a birthing ball may help too. have you been experiencing ‘nesting’ yet? you may be going on a cleaning spree in your house in preparation for your new baby. not all women get it, but it’s a great way to get used to cleaning after your babies constantly! your next steps if you’re still constipated then keep eating fibre-rich foods and drink lots of liquids to help food pass through. there isn’t much room in your digestive tract at the moment, so you need to give it all the help it can get right now! if you haven’t heard about group b streptococcus, your midwife or doctor may talk to you about it. about 25% of women carry gbs and there is a risk that gbs can pass to your baby during labour and cause a potentially fatal infection. if gbs is detected or if you have been previously diagnosed with gbs then you will be tested again. if you go into labour before 37 weeks you should be offered antibiotics from the start of your labour, which has been shown to be highly effective at preventing gbs infection in babies. have you been offered a sweep yet? a sweep is a vaginal examination, where a finger is placed inside and makes circular sweeping motions to help kickstart labour. you may be offered a sweep at around 37 to 40 weeks pregnant, but you don’t have to accept it if you don’t want to let nature take its course. make sure you keep all your important phone numbers to hand in case labour starts, so you can call your emergency contacts. note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* have you already had your baby (congratulations!), but you’re still receiving pregnancy emails? just hit unsubscribe at the bottom of your email and sign up to ‘my motherhood’ posts to carry on with the personalised weekly emails for your baby up to 16 weeks old! form below: subscribe to receive personalised motherhood weekly emails here * indicates required first name * email address * your baby’s birthday * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:birthing centerchildbirthdiaperhealthmaternitynightgowntranscutaneous electrical nerve stimulationwater birth related posts how you can encourage your child to be a... music and the womb: myths and benefits o... changes to paternity leave competition time! win a polar loop 2 and... press release – launch of motherhood dia... the night that changed my daughter’... healthy weight loss after pregnancy help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... pain free labour get active with the polar loop 2 and pol... alfie’s birth story my thoughts on caesarean section what it feels like to be overdue… kit & coco head lice treatment’s ba... home hiv tests save lives – so why the c... where does your fat go when you lose wei... jack’s birth story how to give yourself a little boost with... the truth about pregnancy and childbirth psoriasis – what you should know nursery rhymes finger food creations wit... benefits of exercise during pregnancy world hand hygiene day 2017 – join us in... how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... early signs of labour – and what t... the benefits of moisturising with face o... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... 14 weeks pregnant – the fatigue is... how to keep your style during maternity a baby’s perspective on “sleep training” about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok