home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks contractions have started leyla preston sun 8th aug 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list your baby at 22 weeks your signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i have been having some rude dreams lately, so hubby and i broke the drought, that’s all i’m saying! i have started to get itchy skin on my belly, so i have been rubbing loads of cocoa butter on my skin to try and ease the scratching. still, no stretch marks yet, so fingers crossed it stays like that. my bump is definitely growing and i can feel our boy more and more now, which is nice because it creates a bond between the baby and i. i also find myself rubbing my bump as i’m walking down the street and i wonder whether that’s because i am subconciously protecting my bump from hazards in the real world… i walked to the post office this week, which was a 20-minute walk away and i had to stop mid-way as i started to feel cramps in my belly, which felt a bit like mini stitches. i called up a friend who was at week 26 of her pregnancy and she told me not to worry. “they sound like braxton hicks contractions,” she said. i spoke to my midwife as well and asked her whether they felt like labour pains and she replied saying that i will 100% know when i’m in labour. that statement scared me a bit… i also mentioned that i seem to be developing ptyalism (lots of saliva) and i wake up in the morning with loads of drool on the pillow, which is really annoying as i have to change my pillow covers every day. the midwife said that was perfectly normal during pregnancy due to the hormones. i also talked to my friend about birth plans and she said that she wants as many drugs as she can get as she’s a wimp with pain. but my mum had four kids with no pain relief, so i’m going to try and have as natural a birth as possible. obviously, i won’t rule it out but i reckon i can take it (i can hear you mums laughing at me right now). i have a phobia of needles and an epidural does not sound appealing to me at all. hubby and i have got into a routine of going to bed early and reading our baby book. we’re at the breastfeeding chapter at the moment and it sounds quite daunting, having to get up every two hours to feed the baby. i’m rubbish without sleep, so i don’t know how i’m going to do it. but, i suppose it’s all for the baby and it’s healthier to breastfeed apparently, so i’m going to give it my best shot. i want to give our boy the best start in life and if that means sleep deprivation for two years then so be it! a fun fact – the baby is 11 inches long – the length of a spaghetti squash! your baby at 22 weeks your baby’s irises are to start to get pigmentation. however, they still remain closed for now. your baby is developing his/her senses now – touch, taste, sight and hearing. they can hear your heartbeat, your voice and even loud noises which are further away, outside of the womb. your baby’s head, body and limbs are now more in proportion to each other. s/he is looking more like a newborn now! over the next few months your baby will gain lots of fat to keep them warm as the lung and organs continue to develop your signs and symptoms your back is under increased strain as your bump grows bigger. try standing as straight as you can and place a small cushion behind your back when you’re sitting. you may be gaining some weight now. many women worry about whether they’re gaining too much or too little weight. this is understandable, but generally, you shouldn’t worry too much. if you’re worried about your weight, speak to your gp or midwife who can provide you with more information on healthy weight gain during pregnancy. you may experience high energy levels in bursts have you noticed how fast your nails are growing? your eyesight might even be changing and your feet may be growing! this is because the pregnancy hormone relaxin is loosening ligaments and joints and the bones in your feet are spreading. exercise is good for pregnancy, as long as you don’t overdo it. look at exercises like pregnancy yoga, pilates or walking. if you are still suffering from heartburn, avoid spicy foods, citrus food and drink, chocolate and coffee. take small mouthfuls and chew well. try not to lie down after a meal too. and when you go to sleep, prop yourself up on pillows to help with the digestion. your next steps have you looked into your maternity rights? do you know about the terms of your maternity leave or maternity allowance? prevent or limit stretch marks by making sure you’re moisturising your belly night and day learn more about labour and birth and start preparing have you looked into your birth plan yet? have you thought about your baby essentials yet? note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* *contains affiliate links leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:braxton hicksbreastfeedingbumpcontractionsdreamsdroolingdrugsepiduralexhaustionfeedingitchy skinpainpain reliefpregnancypregnantptyalismreadingresearchroutinesexsleepsleep deprivationstretch marksstretchmarksweek 22 related posts ted’s birth story 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... children not getting enough reading mate... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... healthy weight loss after pregnancy the benefits of walking during pregnancy how the gender mystery during pregnancy ... george’s birth story the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... pregnancy & stis: what to do 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... tara’s birth story 36 weeks pregnant – my bump is hug... the evolution of maternity dresses top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... jack’s birth story alfie’s birth story all i ever wanted was to be a mum is it safe to use self-tanner while preg... 34 weeks pregnant – antenatal clas... 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy breastfeeding basics: advice for new mum... 24 weeks pregnant – does drinking ... k’s story 30 weeks pregnant – we’re mo... how to help kids sleep better at night the truth about breastfeeding press release – launch of motherhood dia... 38 weeks pregnant – the baby’... this may feel a little cold – the ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok