home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy prevnext 9 weeks pregnant – what is this metallic taste in my mouth!? leyla preston sun 9th may 2010 0shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below: if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 9 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. this week had been an absolute nightmare. whenever i ate or drunk anything, i would get this horrible taste in my mouth that tasted like… metal! it’s not that i know what metal tastes like, but i imagine that it was this horrible lingering taste that i would get 24 hours a day. i had been scared to eat because coupled with nausea, this aftertaste was tipping me over the edge. the only temporary solution to combating this terrible symptom was chewing gum or anything that had a more overpowering flavour. but, it never lasted… i read that it is quite normal to experience this taste in your mouth, which is scientifically known as “dysgeusia”. i decided to draw up a mini nutrition plan that involved consuming as many vitamins and minerals as possible, but i knew this would be difficult, and expensive. i figured that if i ate a bit more fibre in my diet, it may solve the constipation problem and even get rid of that horrible metallic taste in my mouth, so i started incorporating cereals and plenty of fruit into my diet. i had put on weight too as i hadn’t thrown up from the morning sickness yet. but, i kept wondering when the time would come when the dreaded morning sickness would catch up with me. i still looked quite dull and grey too… i thought you were meant to glow during your pregnancy?? i was still also feeling pretty rubbish and depressed. i couldn’t even wash up because the smell from the kitchen made me feel sick. in fact, everything made me feel sick. i couldn’t go outside because even the smell of nature made me feel sick. i just wanted to curl into a ball and watch some meaningless tv. i certainly didn’t want to go to work… how long was this rubbish period going to last? a fun fact – your baby weighs under 10g! the science part your baby at 9 weeks your baby will measure at about 2.3cm in length and weigh in at less than 2g. the eyelids are fused and completely covering his eyes and won’t open until week 26. tiny earlobes are now visible. he’s starting to look more human now. his wrists are more developed, his ankles have formed and his fingers and toes are clear to see. his arms are now growing longer and bending at the elbows. it is still not possible to tell the sex of the baby, but his genitals are now forming. by now, the placenta is producing important hormones, making nutrients for your baby and getting rid of his waste products. your pregnancy signs and symptoms you should have had your first antenatal appointment about now, called your booking appointment. your midwife will take a blood sample for routine tests. you might be feeling a bit emotional at the moment thanks to the raging hormones do trial and error to see what helps you feel better during morning sickness. i find lemon and ginger really helps – try it in tea! frequent peeing and fatigue is still going strong. you may find you have nasal congestion and headaches – again that’s hormones. thanks, hormones! your next steps null support your baby’s bone development by eating foods that are rich in vitamin d and calcium make sure you’re keeping up with your folic acid you qualify for free dental care – so make sure you’ve filled out your form – ask your gp/midwife for more details take a picture of your belly if you haven’t done so already – a weekly picture is a lovely keepsake to have to watch you grow over the months! note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:dysgeusiapregnancytired related posts indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 21 weeks pregnant – found a new jo... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... cytomegalovirus – what you should know aron’s birth story benefits of exercise during pregnancy should you really eat for two during pre... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... bruce’s birth story early signs of labour – and what t... imogen’s birth story healthy weight loss after pregnancy 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... the 40 week pregnancy myth mumsnet bumpfest 2014 – pregnancy, labou... 18 weeks pregnant- on holiday and loving... pregnancy & stis: what to do 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... breastfeeding twins 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... 40 weeks pregnant – my due date ha... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... how to learn a language during your preg... 10 ways to feel good during pregnancy 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... noah’s birth story about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok