home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog first trimester my pregnancy pregnancy prevnext 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel the effects of pregnancy immediately? leyla preston thu 8th apr 2010 0shares share tweet pin table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 5 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. if you’re pregnant and you’d like to receive personalised pregnancy emails every week, then please sign up below. i walked around our flat in a daze. i had stopped working, so i was now free to absent-mindedly clean the flat and go over the same spots over and over again… i wanted to call mum. i wanted to call my best friend. hubby was at work and we had both agreed not to tell any of our friends until we had hit the 3-month mark, which felt so far away. the weirdest thing was that i didn’t feel any different. i was half-expecting to run to the toilet and throw up, but i felt nothing. when did nausea set in? how bad was my morning sickness going to be? when will i start showing? so many questions! i just wanted to turn my mind off for just 5 minutes, so that i could relax a little, but i couldn’t switch off. i felt scared and even a bit lonely. i had no idea how this whole pregnancy malarkey was going to pan out and what was going to happen in the next 35 weeks. where would i start building on my knowledge? i wanted to know everything – how the baby grew, what i was going to feel, what i had to do to look after myself and the baby etc. i didn’t even know where to look for information, so i consulted my old friend, google, and typed ‘pregnant’ into the search box. a gazillion different pregnancy sites popped up and i suddenly felt overwhelmed, so i turned off my laptop and decided to go for a walk around the park instead. i had obviously picked the wrong time in the afternoon to venture out, as the park was crowded with lots of mums and babies going about their businesses. i sat down on a nearby bench and watched a mother lay a picnic down on the ground beside her two children, a girl of about 3 or 4 years old and a much younger baby boy, who looked around 6 months old. the mother took the toys out of the basket and placed them down in front of him, whil the daughter ran rings around the blanket and yelled at her mum that she was hungry. the mother looked flustered and kept motioning for the girl to sit down and eat. the 6-month-old started to cry and clung on tightly to his mother, as she tried to free the girl’s hands from throwing the food onto the grass. i could see that the mother was struggling, but i had no idea how to help her, so i stayed seated. i was only a brand new member of the unwritten, universal mummy group and it would be a long time before i had my baby… about 8 months long! when i got back to the flat, i decided to burn a little energy by sticking on one of my regular high-impact aerobic exercise dvds. but, it had suddenly dawned on me that maybe i wasn’t allowed to exercise in the same way as i did before. so, back i went to my laptop and found some information on exercising during pregnancy. apparently, i was still able to carry on as normal until i got to the second trimester, then i would have to slow down. i figured i’d err on the side of caution and opted for some light aerobics instead. i felt miles better and greeted hubby with a big hug and a kiss when he came home. a fun fact – your baby’s heart begins to beat! the science part your baby at 5 weeks the baby’s nervous system is developing foundations for the baby’s major organs are now in place the embryo is around 2mm long. your baby looks a little like a tadpole at the moment. the neural tube is forming, which will later become the brain and spinal cord. the heart is forming and has begun to beat and pump blood. a string of blood vessels connects the mother and baby and will become the umbilical cord. your pregnancy signs and symptoms you may have missed your first period by now you might start to feel sick, tired and overwhelmed you may even feel faint and still have tender breasts. don’t worry, you will feel better soon and experience the common pregnancy glow sooner than you think! if you are starting to worry, like i did, about how you’re going to feel during pregnancy and what is going to happen to your body, then you can watch me here at almost 40 weeks! (i’m the beachball in the blue jumper!) nhs choices: what will happen to my body during pregnancy? your next steps look for more advice and frequently asked questions on early pregnancy, including common symptoms and general health (diet and exercise) book your first antenatal appointment with your gp/midwifery service if you haven’t done so already note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your midwife. *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:exerciseinternetmorning sicknesspregnancypregnant related posts 31 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... how to be an active mum are electronic cigarettes a suitable alt... imogen’s birth story 6 weeks pregnant – time to register the ... the other side of abortion 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t ... sm’s birth story was that it? feeling a kick… maybe... oral b pro expert premium gum protection... what it feels like to be overdue… 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... all i ever wanted was to be a mum the 40 week pregnancy myth how you can encourage your child to be a... alfie’s birth story 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... 32 weeks pregnant – things are rea... from a cryptic pregnancy to a phantom pr... cytomegalovirus – what you should know how to strengthen your pelvic floor afte... help getting pregnant; ten things to imp... the wait to become pregnant continues... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... press release – launch of motherhood dia... women have an equal role in gender selec... 20 weeks pregnant – my second scan... 17 weeks pregnant – i don’t ... birth partners: doula or don’t ya? 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 0shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok