home contribute a-z advertise about us contact us trying to get pregnant? homecontributea-zadvertiseabout uscontact ustrying to get pregnant?preconception- get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit!- journey to getting my girlpregnancy- miscarriage- cryptic pregnancies- phantom pregnancieslabour and birth- birth stories- - caesarean birth stories- - home birth- - natural birth stories- - vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac)parenthood- arts and crafts- birthday parties and celebrations- breastfeeding- cleaning- daddies- education- kid-free- marriage- toys and gamesblog- my pregnancy- - first trimester- - - 4 weeks pregnant- - - 5 weeks pregnant- - - 6 weeks pregnant- - - 7 weeks pregnant- - - 8 weeks pregnant- - - 9 weeks pregnant- - - 10 weeks pregnant- - - 11 weeks pregnant- - - 12 weeks pregnant- - second trimester- - - 13 weeks pregnant- - - 14 weeks pregnant- - - 15 weeks pregnant- - - 16 weeks pregnant- - - 17 weeks pregnant- - - 18 weeks pregnant- - - 19 weeks pregnant- - - 20 weeks pregnant- - - 21 weeks pregnant- - - 22 weeks pregnant- - - 23 weeks pregnant- - - 24 weeks pregnant- - - 25 weeks pregnant- - third trimester- - - 26 weeks pregnant- - - 27 weeks pregnant- - - 28 weeks pregnant- - - 29 weeks pregnant- - - 30 weeks pregnant- - - 31 weeks pregnant- - - 32 weeks pregnant- - - 33 weeks pregnant- - - 34 weeks pregnant- - - 35 weeks pregnant- - - 36 weeks pregnant- - - 37 weeks pregnant- - - 38 weeks pregnant- - - 39 weeks pregnant- - - 40 weeks pregnant- - - 41 weeks pregnant- - my motherhood- - - 15 weeks old – is aron teething already?- - - 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep!- - - 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laughlatest articles- animals and pets- campaigns and charities- christmas- elderly- environment- family health- pelvic floor- fashion- food and drink- get outdoors!- holidays- london- interior design- legal- music- property- safety and security- shopping- travelreviews- eventspressresource library preconception get your free ‘plan your path to pregnancy’ starter kit! journey to getting my girl pregnancy miscarriage cryptic pregnancies phantom pregnancies labour and birth birth stories caesarean birth stories home birth natural birth stories vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) parenthood arts and crafts birthday parties and celebrations breastfeeding cleaning daddies education kid-free marriage toys and games blog my pregnancy first trimester 4 weeks pregnant 5 weeks pregnant 6 weeks pregnant 7 weeks pregnant 8 weeks pregnant 9 weeks pregnant 10 weeks pregnant 11 weeks pregnant 12 weeks pregnant second trimester 13 weeks pregnant 14 weeks pregnant 15 weeks pregnant 16 weeks pregnant 17 weeks pregnant 18 weeks pregnant 19 weeks pregnant 20 weeks pregnant 21 weeks pregnant 22 weeks pregnant 23 weeks pregnant 24 weeks pregnant 25 weeks pregnant third trimester 26 weeks pregnant 27 weeks pregnant 28 weeks pregnant 29 weeks pregnant 30 weeks pregnant 31 weeks pregnant 32 weeks pregnant 33 weeks pregnant 34 weeks pregnant 35 weeks pregnant 36 weeks pregnant 37 weeks pregnant 38 weeks pregnant 39 weeks pregnant 40 weeks pregnant 41 weeks pregnant my motherhood 15 weeks old – is aron teething already? 16 weeks old – i need to get some sleep! 17 weeks old – it’s fun to be silly for a laugh latest articles animals and pets campaigns and charities christmas elderly environment family health pelvic floor fashion food and drink get outdoors! holidays london interior design legal music property safety and security shopping travel reviews events press resource library blog my pregnancy pregnancy second trimester prevnext 26 weeks pregnant – i can’t stop looking at other pregnant mums’ bumps! leyla preston sun 5th sep 2010 1shares share tweet pin if you’re pregnant, sign up below to receive personalised weekly emails straight to your inbox! table of contents subscribe to our mailing list the science part your baby at 26 weeks your pregnancy signs and symptoms your next steps subscribe to our mailing list * indicates required first name * email address * your due date * / / ( dd / mm / yyyy ) marketing permissions please check the ‘email’ box below if you are happy to receive weekly pregnancy emails from motherhood diaries email you can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. for information about our privacy practices, please visit our website. we use mailchimp as our marketing platform. by clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to mailchimp for processing. learn more about mailchimp’s privacy practices here. i can’t stop looking at other pregnant mothers’ bumps. i feel like i’m in a private pregnant women’s club and i now feel a certain bond towards other expectant mothers. maybe it’s because i know what they’re going through and how they feel… but now i can’t help but compare my bump to theirs. my belly button hasn’t popped out yet, but hubby has noticed that the bump is definitely growing. he can feel the baby too now and he keeps singing to him every night – he reckons that if he sings to the baby every night then when the baby is born and is in distress, hubby’s voice may be able to relax him. hubby also bought me a mexican bola which i’m supposed to wear around my neck and the chimes are meant to soothe the baby. apparently, the same chimes can soothe the baby when he’s born too. i’ve been thinking about child benefit. i’m self-employed, so i won’t be able to ask for statutory maternity pay. i did a little bit of research on the net and turns out i can ask for the health in pregnancy grant too, which is great. i will need to ask for a matb1 form from my midwife, so when i have my 28-week check-up, i will ask for a form then. also, i can claim the health in pregnancy grant from week 25 so i need to ask the doctor for a form regarding that too. i’ve decided that i’m going to try and work up until my due date then claim for maternity allowance after that date, as i found out that you receive maternity allowance for 39 weeks after the date you finish work. i’ve been feeling a bit spaced out lately. hubby keeps joking about my slow nature – i say, relish the moment dear! you may win against me in a game of articulate, but i can guarantee that my sharp mind will be back! how long does this baby brain last? the science part your baby at 26 weeks your baby is now the size of an orange and growing so fast! their teeth even though still in the gum stages, have got their enamel coating already they can clasp their hands now and they are playing around with their umbilical cord now like a toy. your baby is moving to the music, so sing to it, and play music near their bump. your baby’s brain continues to develop and their taste buds are fully developed too. the foods you will eat will affect the amniotic fluid, which they are breathing in and out. this is essential for lung development and good practice for when they take their first breath in the outside world. your baby is starting to find the space in your bump a bit tighter now. but they can still flip and spin in your belly! your pregnancy signs and symptoms you’ve reached the end of your second trimester, welcome to the third trimester. not long to go now! is your baby waking at night? it’s because your daily movements are rocking them to sleep, but when you’re still they wake up! if you’re having a hard time going to sleep then try a maternity pillow between your legs. i find a pillow to support my back helps as well. if you’re still suffering from heartburn or reflex at night, try propping your head with a pillow. keep an eye on what you are eating as well as greasy and spicy food can cause indigestion, especially as your digestion is slowing down. your blood pressure may be increasing slightly, although it is probably still lower than it was before. typically your blood pressure falls at about 22 – 24 weeks. your next steps keep an eye on your baby’s movements because if they’re less than normal you need to seek medical advice resting up is super important during the last few months of pregnancy, so make it a habit to spend time with yourself make sure to moisturise your skin and its stretching due to getting bigger and stretchmarks may occur note: these are just general ideas of how you and your baby are getting on. don’t forget that every baby develops differently. if you are concerned about your baby’s development, please consult your doctor or midwife. a fun fact – the baby weighs 1.7 pounds and measures at about 14 inches. growth spurt this week! *illustrations by charlotte watkins. ﻿ if you have any questions about her work, please contact charlotte via her website, facebook, instagram or linkedin* leyla preston (594 posts) leyla preston is the owner and editor of motherhood diaries global magazine for parents. leyla is a busy mother of two even busier boys; aron, 8, and aidan, 7. when leyla isn’t feeding, managing a gazillion tasks or cleaning the infinite mess at home, she is busy working on this magazine and a new cooking channel coming very soon – no rest for the wicked!you can follow leyla on twitter (@m_diaries) or join the busy motherhood diaries facebook group where all mums get together and share stories and solutions with one another: https://www.facebook.com//groups/motherhooddiaries/ tags:babybumpchild benefitdue datehealth in pregnancy grantinternetmexican bolamothermumpregnancypregnantresearchsizestatutory maternity payweek 26weight related posts thinking about your baby’s future:... william’s birth story all i ever wanted was to be a mum music and the womb: myths and benefits o... indigestion and heartburn during pregnan... how i’ve changed in thirty years, 1983 &... agatha’s birth story 15 weeks pregnant – time is really... top 10 maternity must-haves from asda ge... the 40 week pregnancy myth 7 weeks pregnant – i’m tired all t... ‘when it all changes, change it al... rights and benefits aidan’s birth story 28 weeks pregnant – i can hear my ... 27 weeks pregnant – my third trime... 12 weeks pregnant – blood tests today! the top pregnancy must-haves list for ex... thinking of having a baby? here’s what y... 22 weeks pregnant – braxton hicks ... making the most of maternity leave 4 weeks pregnant – first month of ... what to pack in your hospital bag for la... 36 weeks pregnant – my bump is hug... 29 weeks pregnant – the end is nea... 5 weeks pregnant – can you feel th... the wait to become pregnant continues... this may feel a little cold – the ... 13 weeks pregnant – ultrasound scan day! life after birth – back to work or work ... about motherhood diaries leyla preston is founder of motherhood diaries and a busy mum of two boys aged 7 and 9 years old and a 4-month-old baby girl! sign up to become an md contributor here find out more about motherhood diaries here tv and radio contributor subscribe for full access to our free resource library now! awesome, thanks so much! there's an email coming your way :-) there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. email address i'd like to receive the free email course. i'm ready! please follow & like us :) food advertising by category index category index select categoryanimals and pets (5)arts and crafts (9)birth stories (18) caesarean birth stories (3) home birth (4) natural birth stories (2) vaginal birth after caesarean (vbac) (1)birthday parties and celebrations (9)blog (56) first trimester (9) my motherhood (3) my pregnancy (38) second trimester (14) third trimester (15)breastfeeding (9)campaigns and charities (12)christmas (16)cleaning (4)competition/giveaways (25)cryptic pregnancies (2)daddies (6)education (26)elderly (1)environment (4)events (30)family health (119)fashion (27)food and drink (103)front page (41)get outdoors! (24)holidays (47)interior design (20)kid-free (11)labour and birth (31)latest articles (302)legal (4)london (23)marriage (3)miscarriage (1)money (32)music (6)pelvic floor (6)phantom pregnancies (4)pregnancy (70)product reviews (124) degustabox (45) weekend box (3)property (22)recipes (71)safety and security (9)shopping (11)the joys of parenthood (93)tips on getting pregnant (14) journey to getting my girl (2)toys and games (3)travel (42) recent posts recent comments most commented most viewed tags investment options for your family’s future elder care: the options february 2020 degusta box review – easter is coming! kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know elder care: the options elder care: the options how to prepare for a baby – the first-year essential guide kids should have access to outdoor play facilities all year - #playmuststay winter's tale five survival skills for kids that you should know investment options for your family’s future baby breastfeeding bump children christmas competition contractions degustabox diet education exercise exhaustion family fashion food food and drink food box food delivery food products health healthy holiday home interior design labour london midwife money news preconception pregnancy pregnant product review product reviews property recipe recipes saving money school shopping sleep slide sponsored post summer travel follow us on pinterest a timeshare may be just what you need to enjoy your next vacation to the fullest. worldmark timeshare for sale online is up to 50% off resort prices! a grand pacific palisades resort timeshare is also a good value online. great for a family trip to carlsbad, california moving as a family with young children is never an easy task. hiring full-service movers will ensure that they take care of everything for you. try to choose a company that is licensed and highly rated on the bbb when searching for movers manchester nh. watch motherhood diaries on tv watch leyla’s interview on how to achieve success in business yourself how to sleep comfortably with your bump during pregnancy what will happen to my body during pregnancy? how can i help my pregnant partner? how can i cope with a lack of sleep? rankings, awards and badges dealspotr.com become an md contributor copyright © 2010 - 2019 motherhood diaries. all rights reserved. 1shares a-z of articles on motherhood diaries about us ad/disclosure policy advertise with motherhood diaries contact us contributor’s agreement cookies policy disclaimer media kit press privacy policy review/giveaway policy terms and conditions we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. if you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.ok