wpbeginner beginner's guide for wordpress blog beginners guide news opinion showcase themes tutorials wordpress plugins start here how to start a blog create a website start an online store best website builder email marketing wordpress hosting deals bluehost coupon siteground coupon wp engine coupon hostgator coupon domain.com coupon constant contact view all deals » glossary videos products x ☰ beginner's guide for wordpress / start your wordpress blog in minutes choosing the best wordpress hosting how to easily install wordpress recommended wordpress plugins view all guides wpbeginner » deals » plugins » weglot coupon weglot coupon weglot is a wordpress translation plugin that can be used to translate your website and show it in any language required. it allows manual and automatic translations making it easier for your users to see the website in their own language. it has pre-built translations for up to 60 languages. you can also add your own translations manually with the simple input options. weglot is trusted by popular brands like microsoft, sennheiser, polaroid, and more. the best part is that wpbeginner users can get a 15% off on the purchase at weglot using our exclusive weglot coupon code. coupon code wpbeg19 (click to copy & open site) last used 8 hours ago reviewed by: syed balkhi rating: how to use weglot coupon code? wpbeginner’s exclusive weglot coupon code helps you get 15% off on their wordpress translation plugin. all you have to do is follow our instructions below to properly redeem weglot coupon code, so you can get the best discount on weglot. first, you need to visit the weglot website using our link on wpbeginner and click on the ‘start your free trial’ button. this will take you to the registration page. you need to enter your email address and password to create an account at weglot website. once logged in, you can click on your image icon from the top right corner to go to the billing page. from here, you need to click on the ‘change plan’ button. this will take you to the plans and pricing page. you need to click on the ‘have a coupon? click here to enter your code’ link and enter our weglot coupon code: wpbeg19 click on the ‘apply’ button and it’ll display the new price after the discount. next, you need to scroll down to the payments section and enter your full payment information including address, city, country, etc. click on the ‘pay’ button below to complete your purchase. the payment should be charged after your free trial ends. we hope you found our weglot coupon code to be helpful. at wpbeginner, we work hard to negotiate exclusive discounts for our users. please check out other wordpress coupons and deals. other amazing deals inmotion hosting coupon get 50% off inmotion business class hosting and a free domain. view this deal » siteground coupon get 70% off siteground wordpress hosting. view this deal » wp coupons and deals coupon get 30% off on wp coupons and deals wordpress coupon plugin. view this deal » over 1,320,000+ readers get fresh content from wpbeginner featured wordpress plugin optinmonster convert website visitors into email subscribers. learn more » i need help with ... starting a blog wordpress performance wordpress security wordpress seo wordpress errors building an online store useful wordpress guides 7 best wordpress backup plugins compared (pros and cons) how to fix the error establishing a database connection in wordpress why you need a cdn for your wordpress blog? [infographic] 25 legit ways to make money online blogging with wordpress self hosted wordpress.org vs. free wordpress.com [infograph] free recording: wordpress workshop for beginners 24 must have wordpress plugins for business websites how to properly move your blog from wordpress.com to wordpress.org 5 best contact form plugins for wordpress compared which is the best wordpress popup plugin? (comparison) best woocommerce hosting in 2020 (comparison) how to fix the internal server error in wordpress how to install wordpress - complete wordpress installation tutorial why you should start building an email list right away how to properly move wordpress to a new domain without losing seo how to choose the best wordpress hosting for your website how to choose the best blogging platform (comparison) wordpress tutorials - 200+ step by step wordpress tutorials 5 best wordpress ecommerce plugins compared 5 best wordpress membership plugins (compared) 7 best email marketing services for small business (2020) how to choose the best domain registrar (compared) the truth about shared wordpress web hosting when do you really need managed wordpress hosting? 5 best drag and drop wordpress page builders compared how to switch from blogger to wordpress without losing google rankings how to properly switch from wix to wordpress (step by step) how to properly move from weebly to wordpress (step by step) do you really need a vps? best wordpress vps hosting compared how to properly move from squarespace to wordpress how to register a domain name (+ tip to get it for free) hostgator review - an honest look at speed & uptime (2020) siteground reviews from 1032 users & our experts (2020) bluehost review from real users + performance stats (2020) how much does it really cost to build a wordpress website? how to create an email newsletter the right way (step by step) 7 best crm software for small businesses (compared) how to create a free business email address in 5 minutes (step by step) how to install google analytics in wordpress for beginners how to move wordpress to a new host or server with no downtime why is wordpress free? what are the costs? what is the catch? how to make a website in 2020 – step by step guide featured in about wpbeginner® wpbeginner is a free wordpress resource site for beginners. wpbeginner was founded in july 2009 by syed balkhi. the main goal of this site is to provide quality tips, tricks, hacks, and other wordpress resources that allows wordpress beginners to improve their site(s). site links about us contact us ftc disclosure privacy policy terms of service free blog setup our sites optinmonster monsterinsights wpforms seedprod nameboy rafflepress copyright © 2009 - 2020 wpbeginner llc. all rights reserved. wpbeginner® is a registered trademark. managed by awesome motive | wordpress hosting by siteground | wordpress cdn by maxcdn | wordpress security by sucuri.