home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog jamie eason’s 30 day knockout total body workout march 10, 2014 by erin weiss 2 comments at lunch today i decided to try a workout that jamie eason recently created for fitnessrx.com. the workout is called jamie eason's 30 day knockout total body workout. see the full workout here. as always, i trust any workout that jamie eason comes up with. i had such great success with her livefit program (my results) that i figured i'd give this one a try too. i don't … [read more...] will i bulk up by lifting weights? november 15, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment will i bulk up by lifting weights? every week i get some sort of email or message on my facebook page from women asking my thoughts on whether or not they should start weight training. they always mention that they don't want to "bulk up" or get too muscular. i wanted to write this post to address your concerns and help you understand how muscle building works for … [read more...] country concert, cravings and a crazy doberman september 24, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment this past weekend was supposed to be a total relaxation...get $*!t done type of weekend. friday night was a success. i hit the gym after work and was productive all friday night. saturday came around and somehow i got convinced to go to the jason aldean concert. i love country concerts so it was pretty hard to pass up. he played in noblesville, in and it was a … [read more...] what to eat post workout september 23, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments what to eat post workout i get asked this question quite a bit so i figured i'd post about it. have you ever wondered what you should be eating immediately following a workout in order to maximize your results? i just posted this to my facebook page but wanted to mention it here as well.... "your first meal after your workout is the most important. make the most of it … [read more...] clutch cut day 4 june 24, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments today was day 4 of ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut program on bodybuilding.com. it was my second full body lift day of the program. i was still a little sore from friday's lift but nothing too bad. i was ready to rock and roll as soon as the clock hit 4pm. i rushed out of work and it was finally gym thirty!!! on the schedule today was the same workout … [read more...] the orbit girl talks weight training june 20, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment the orbit girl got it right!!! use weight training to blast away that fat!!! oh and i never claimed to be great at photo shop...so ignore her alien looking blurry hand ;) … [read more...] leg day workout january 9, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments if you follow me on facebook, you already know that i just posted... well...i stuck to my word and lifted heavier than i ever have in my life!! i usually never post the amount of weight that i lift, but i've found that when i see what another girl lifted, it always makes me push harder because i know that it's possible (thanks to little b for the motivation you gave … [read more...] 2 days out – questions and answers! september 20, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments i'm officially two days away from my first fitness america bikini competition! my nerves have remained constant..they are still very high but at least they aren't getting worse i guess ;) i'm taking work off tomorrow and leaving for chicago in the morning!!! i probably wont be able to blog again until after the show, so this will be my last post before the big day. make … [read more...] 4 days out & some exciting food pics! september 18, 2012 by erin weiss 1 comment yesterday was hard. i had a really hard time with my new nutrition for this last week of prep. my carbs were cut down pretty low and i'm basically just eating chicken, tilapia, green beans, asparagus & sweet potato. i have always had a lot of carbs in my diet. this is the first time i've ever tried cutting my carbs down a little. luckily, the team i'm on (cathy … [read more...] my newest goal!! august 15, 2012 by erin weiss 7 comments alright, i've finally found the courage to announce the latest goal i've been working so hard for. i've decided to do my first competition! i was going to keep this a secret but i decided to share it with the amazing people who take the time to visit this blog. it's out there now. i guess it's official and i'm held accountable...ahhh!!!! this is actually goal number 15 … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in