home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog should i do cardio before or after weights? your questions answered! february 13, 2016 by erin weiss 4 comments the most common question i get asked is: should i do cardio before or after weights? when i first started working out, i would always try to get my cardio in before my weight session because, to be honest, i hated cardio and just wanted to get it over with. after i got more serious about working out and meeting my goals, i became more interested in what the most efficient … [read more...] a bachelorette party & building my shoulders march 25, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment happy tuesday everyone!! i hope everyone's having a great start to their week. it's march 25th and it's snowing here...whaaaaaaaaaaat? so strange and i don't like it one bit. i hope you're ready for the most random post in the world. it's a collection of what i've been up to lately and what clothes i've been digging lately too :) check out this new outfit that i got … [read more...] my compound leg day workout february 28, 2014 by erin weiss 1 comment today is good old leg day over here. leg day used to be my favorite..now i have a love/hate relationship with it. i always switch up which workout day is my favorite, depending on which body part i want to work the most on and lately it's been my shoulders. legs are so important to train though because they contain some of the biggest muscle groups and will burn the most … [read more...] what exercises should i do first when working out? october 7, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment i get asked often how i build my workouts. what exercises should i do first? what muscle group should i train first? what's the biggest muscle? what should i focus on the most? what's a good workout split? (hint: hover over this image to pin it to pinterest for a quick reminder later!) when strength training, start with your biggest muscle groups. here are a few of your … [read more...] patience is key september 13, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment happy friday!!! i haven't posted a personal blog post this week yet, so i thought i was due for one. i took tuesday and thursday off as rest days this week but have hit the gym hard every other day. (hint: hover over any of my images to post to pinterest!) in the past 6 months i've been really focusing on building my upper body. since i was a soccer player my … [read more...] the kick your button leg workout july 23, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i've got a killer leg workout for you guys today. it's a tough one!!! hover over the image and pin it to pinterest so you don't forget to try this workout later! note: be careful with the bench jumps. at that point in the workout, your legs should already be fatigued, so if you don't feel comfortable doing them, you can skip that part (or move them to the … [read more...] my new favorite running shoes july 19, 2013 by erin weiss 1 comment i'm so so so excited i've found some shoes that i absolutely love! sorry for so many pictures, but these are my new babies! i recently partnered up with finish line and got to try out some new nike running shoes. my package came in the mail this week. i'm not sure what i like more now...the blue tiffany's box or the orange nike box!! seriously i get so excited … [read more...] clutch cut – day 1 june 21, 2013 by erin weiss 4 comments clutch cut day 1 hey guys!! so i started ashley conrad's 21 day clutch cut program from bodybuilding.com today!!! so excited about this program. ashley trains a lot of celebrities such as bradley cooper, kate hudson and p. diddy! how cool!!! here's a picture of my new trainer, ashley conrad :) what a bad-ass! a little about the program, according to … [read more...] what’s beautiful may 24, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment yesterday i came home to a big box from under armour! how exciting! since i'm part of the under armour "what's beautiful" campaign, the folks at under armour sent me some awesome gear to try out. i'm obsessed!!! they must have known that i love pink! i got a great tank that's jersey material, bright pink shoes, 6 headbands, a poster and a flash drive with some … [read more...] nikki mcknight put up a fight! february 20, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments throughout the month of january, i hosted a body transformation challenge. after reviewing all the before and after pictures, nikki mcknight was given the grand prize transformation! i wanted to feature nikki today to congratulate her on her success! nikki's story before challenge: i have always been a fairly active individual. i play sports and have always … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in