home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog live life active fitness blog fitness & lifestyle blog home about about me my favorites press advertising fitness personal training workouts nutrition supplements why i chose isagenix isagenix reviews recipes life personal diy real estate shop more reviews start a blog should i do cardio before or after weights? your questions answered! february 13, 2016 by erin weiss 4 comments the most common question i get asked is: should i do cardio before or after weights? when i first started working out, i would always try to get my cardio in before my weight session because, to be honest, i hated cardio and just wanted to get it over with. after i got more serious about working out and meeting my goals, i became more interested in what the most efficient … [read more...] where does fat go when you lose weight? – do you know the answer? august 17, 2015 by erin weiss 2 comments where does fat go when you lose weight? have you ever wondered this? if you’re like most people, it has come across your mind at some point during your weight loss journey. you spend months working your tail off doing rigorous amounts of exercise and perfecting your diet. at some point you may end up wondering, where does fat go when you lose weight? does it come out when i … [read more...] how to take body measurements july 31, 2014 by erin weiss leave a comment how to take body measurements if you're just starting a weight loss program and are planning on tracking your progress, taking measurements is a must. use this chart and tips to help you get precise measurements so you can accurately track your progress. date: weight: height: the next ones are trickier. here are some tips to help you measure. make sure you do it … [read more...] can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? december 16, 2013 by erin weiss 5 comments with two christmas parties this past weekend, i found myself not wanting to do much on sunday. it was nice to be able to just relax on the couch and catch up on some of my crazy reality tv shows :) true story. i was then caught off guard when a show started talking about losing weight with hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap. let me explain... i found myself watching a new show … [read more...] my big fat revenge august 30, 2013 by erin weiss 3 comments on september 3rd, there's a new show coming our way called "my big fat revenge" on oxygen. "oxygen's upcoming series, my big fat revenge, gives a voice to women who have been tormented by people for being overweight throughout their lives." for example, one of the women who was casted on the show gets "payback" on those that hurt her after she sheds some weight. from the … [read more...] 30 day fuel up challenge july 1, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment are you ready to finally take control of your body and invest in your health? the 30 day fuel up challenge will provide you with the highest quality nutrition and vitamins that your body is begging for. are you sick of being sick and tired? want more lean muscle and kick that stubborn body fat for good? you more than likely need to re-evaluate your nutrition. in order for … [read more...] nikki mcknight put up a fight! february 20, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments throughout the month of january, i hosted a body transformation challenge. after reviewing all the before and after pictures, nikki mcknight was given the grand prize transformation! i wanted to feature nikki today to congratulate her on her success! nikki's story before challenge: i have always been a fairly active individual. i play sports and have always … [read more...] how to get isagenix products at a major discount february 8, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment how to get isagenix products i wanted to write up a post to help others understand how they can get isagenix products at a discount. you may have been wanting to try isagenix because of all the great reviews you've heard about it and all the friends you've seen transform their bodies with it, but the only thing holding you back is the cost. am i right? well, i … [read more...] new training & sore muscles! february 8, 2013 by erin weiss 2 comments hey guys! since the last time i've posted, i've made a few big changes to my training routine! i decided i was lacking motivation lately and want someone to motivate me and push me more than i'm used to pushing myself. it's true. i've been completely guilty of going to the gym, going through the motions and then calling it a day. i was contemplating on hiring an actual … [read more...] new years body transformation 30 day challenge winners! february 5, 2013 by erin weiss leave a comment throughout the month of january, i hosted a new years transformation challenge on my facebook page and on this blog. everyone who entered got placed into a private group where we helped motivate each other for the month and it was a place where everyone could feel comfortable and post pictures without being judged! it was so much fun seeing my challengers transform their … [read more...] next page » popular posts 1. eating clean grocery list – approved foods list 2. 101 gym quotes 3. how exercise can affect a woman’s menstrual cycle – live life active fitness blog 4. can you lose weight from hemorrhoid cream and saran wrap? 5. patulous eustachian tube – why do i hear myself breathing during my workout? tags 5k 12 week trainer basketball bikini bodybuilding cardio chicago clean eating clean food competition contest diet diy doberman exercise fitness blog fitness model free freebie funny giveaway gym healthy eating hiit indianapolis isagenix jamie eason jilian michaels lee labrada's 12 week trainer livefit live life active lose weight nike+ nike plus nutrition recipe review running sprints treadmill weight lifting weight loss weight training workout work out copyright © 2012 · live life active llc advertising info work with me online personal training about about erin my name is erin weiss and i'm the girl behind this fitness blog. i really appreciate you stopping by . copyright © 2020 · magazine pro theme on genesis framework · wordpress · log in