related blogs antiviral art the best restaurant in new york blackbag defamer disputations documents dodgeandburn dog domesticity drugs fine vining fortress america frenchgawker weird internet interviews justice morning after phasezero politburo rankings gawker review of books sausage slowgawker sony hack one man's take the cuck themachines the vane the west tktk true stories valleywag tony the tiger turns his back on twitter’s horny furries ashley feinberg · 01/26/16 03:24pm it’s been nearly three months since we first wrote about tony the tiger’s little furry problem, and it looks like the object of so many fuzzy affections has finally taken action. according to hordes of furious furry twitter accounts, tony the tiger is on the purge. your best kazaa memories (techno remix explicit).mp3 ashley feinberg · 11/09/15 12:11pm back in the wild west days of file sharing, and for a moment all too brief, kazaa reigned king. and thanks to a recently reinvigorated twitter account, we’re reminded of the complete and utter mess that was our kazaa-fueled winamp queue. so for the sake of nostalgia, we ask you: what are some of your best (which is to say, worst) kazaa memories? tony the tiger can't tweet without furries begging him for sex ashley feinberg · 11/04/15 03:37pm while most public figures have a hard time tweeting without at least one teen asking them to please sit on my face, daddy, the official twitter account for tony the tiger, it seems, is dealing with an special breed of proposition. because almost any time tony tweets, the fawning furries of twitter lose their shit. the internet's obsessive hunt for a bootleg spongebob movie that may have never existed andy cush · 11/04/15 12:34pm a day with spongebob squarepants: the movie, a straight-to-dvd unauthorized spoof of the nickelodeon cartoon, appeared for sale on amazon on november 22, 2011. sometime shortly after that, stock of the film mysteriously vanished from the site and everywhere else on the internet. have you ever seen a day with spongebob squarepants? if so, there are a whole lot of nerds who would very much like to talk to you. what this artist has done with landscape photography is absolutely testicles jay hathaway · 10/21/15 05:00pm for months, one diligent artist has toiled to make and curate a majestic collection of landscape photographs, unlike anything you’ve seen before. were these merely pretty landscapes, clancy philbrick would be just another world traveler with an aspirational instagram account, but they’re not: they’re nutscapes. and there’s a big, hairy nutsack in each one. which means he’s also a genius. update: facebook user, asif, regains friendship with scorned ex-best friend, mudasir ashley feinberg · 10/16/15 05:03pm exactly a month ago to the day, our fragile world was rocked when a facebook user from the gujranwala district in pakistan announced that he was severing ties with his then-former best friend mudasir in favor of new best friend salman. today, however, people from all corners of the globe can breathe easy—asif and mudasir are friends once more. doomsday group posts faq to explain why the world didn’t end on time ashley feinberg · 10/15/15 10:46am there have been a lot of end-of-days-to-be over the years. y2k. wayne bent’s day of judgement. the mayan apocalypse. the blood moon prophecy. all of which have come and gone without leaving earth the smoldering pile of rubble we’re so often promised. but now, finally, ebible fellowship is here to tell us why with a friendly faq on why we’re all still alive. unlike its subjects, the funeral selfie will never die ashley feinberg · 10/07/15 09:53am every so often, when it’s late and i’m procrastinating and everything else on the internet is suffused with vitriol and poison, i’ll type “funeral selfie” into my twitter search bar. pages of smiling, duck-faced teens dressed in black and surrounded by either flowers or caskets or actual cadavers stare back at me. and in this dissonant madness, i find peace. my favorite tweets from the o.j. simpson verdict lacey donohue · 10/02/15 04:42pm twenty years ago, on october 3, 1995, former football star and popular character actor o.j. simpson was found not guilty of murdering his ex-wife nicole brown simpson and her friend ronald goldman. immediately after the verdict came down, o.j. simpson tweeted the following: i want to stand with this archive of 1990s kmart store soundtracks on a mountain; i want to bathe with this archive of 1990s kmart store soundtracks in the sea andy cush · 10/02/15 03:21pm want to relive the feeling of accompanying a shopping cart down a dingy fluorescent-lit aisle, trying to decide whether to drop your allowance money on the new 98 degrees album or the sun-in you need to get those frosted tips looking phat again? i have good news for you, my friend, my home dawg, my backstreet boy. i have just the thing you need. facebook user, asif, ends friendship with mudasir, welcomes new "best friend," salman waqas ahmed · 09/16/15 04:03pm earlier today, daily pakistan global stumbled across a facebook post unlike any we have seen before. it tells the story of asif, who severed ties with his former best friend, mudasir, for reasons yet unknown. despite the tragic, word art-annotated tale of love lost, there remains a light at the end of the tunnel—his new best friend, salman. the daily pakistan’s recounting is perfect in every way, so with their permission, we have reprinted it in full below. and if you have any idea what mudasir did to scorn asif so, you can send me an email here. - ashley feinberg, staff writer on remembrance: a conversation with smash mouth alex pareene · 09/11/15 03:50pm indulge your nostalgia with five perfect labor day youtubes from the 80s and 90s andy cush · 09/07/15 09:55am it’s labor day, meaning summer is symbolically if not officially drawing to a close, meaning whatever fun you’re having is probably tinged with a little wistfulness for days gone by, meaning you’re especially primed for nostalgic feelings this week, internet-induced or otherwise. with that in mind, here are some videos of ordinary people riding the same roller coaster of jubilation and sadness you’re riding today, only 15 or 20 years ago. right-wing conspiracy theorists are in love with fall’s hottest benghazi apparel ashley feinberg · 09/03/15 10:12am over the course of the past few years, the benghazi “scandal” has evolved from tragedy to right-wing conspiracy theory to internet sensation to even more insane right-wing conspiracy theory, and everywhere in between. but nowhere has the benghazi phenomenon been quite so prolific (and profitable) as it has on one of the internet’s most unlikely corners: the world of online custom apparel. in praise of piers morgan's tweet reading "i want to die" on its third anniversary alex pareene · 09/02/15 11:40am on this day, september 2, in 2012, piers morgan, the then-cnn host, tweeted, simply, “i want to die.” and now, rubber duck nightmare minute jay hathaway · 08/31/15 01:42pm a short preview of president trump's state of the union address ashley feinberg · 08/31/15 11:54am in the event that your ears begin to bleed—good. that means it’s working. 4chan gets highly sensitive spy report, dismisses it as "fake and gay" ashley feinberg · 08/06/15 03:07pm shockingly, 4chan—the cherished home of aspiring internet vigilantes and/or racist piles of garbage everywhere—isn’t quite as cunning as it might have you believe. when a whistleblower published a highly sensitive (and highly legitimate) report from an australian spy agency to its profanity-laden forums, 4chan users didn’t waste any time in analyzing the potential goldmine at their fingertips: “fake and gay.” kirk cameron could barely hear jesus as he kept fellating the crocoduck jay hathaway · 07/15/15 05:15pm kirk cameron, god’s chosen actor, knows that the heavenly father is real because no one’s ever seen a half-crocodile, half-duck called a crocoduck, though that is most likely because kirk cameron made it up. but what if the crocoduck were real, and what if it put its foot-long crockoduck penis in kirk cameron’s willing mouth? that’s the premise of an erotic novella that you can buy for a buck on amazon. how a sesame street illustrator became the truther scene's golden boy ashley feinberg · 07/15/15 10:43am screaming children run from oversized vaccine death needles. barack obama shows off a handwritten birth certificate bearing the words “kenya” and “fire me.” swastika-inscribed fluoride tanks empty themselves into lakes beneath a sky full of chemtrails. it’s every overblown conspiracy theorist’s nightmare, and there’s not a drop of irony in sight. next page terms of service privacy policy