skip to primary navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer search smart passive income smart passive income menu close menu about pat flynnmeet the man who started it all and discover his founder’s story. spidiscover the mission, vision, and core values that fuel our purpose. teammeet the professionals who make it all happen (and look effortless). partnersmeet our trusted partners including agencies, freelancers, and more. learn affiliate marketinglearn the methods to making money while you sleep. book publishingdiscover what it takes to publish a book you can be proud of. business developmenteducate yourself on the make-or-break dynamics of business. digital marketingread up on the concepts of digital marketing, seo, and promotion. email marketinglearn how to build, nurture, and grow your #1 asset: your list. online coursesschool yourself on the why, how, and what of online course creation. personal developmentexplore tested strategies for personal growth in your entrepreneurial journey. podcastinglearn how to harness the popularity of podcasting to power your brand. listen the spi podcast with pat flynn askpat 2.0 connect webinarsjoin us on one of our fun, informative, interactive, and free webinars. workshopsmake rapid progress by enrolling in one of our small, live training workshops. newsread special announcements, one-off blog posts, random musings, and more. see pat speaksee where pat will be speaking from stage at various industry events. resources coursesour popular courses that empower you to learn at your own pace. toolsthe business-critical systems we use, trust, and proudly recommend. booksgood reads that will stimulate, develop, and expand your brainpower. sponsorslearn all about our wonderful sponsors. featured course: power-up podcasting the course of choice by online entrepreneurs who want the proven step-by-step playbook to launching a successful podcast. learn more welcome to spi. we’re glad and grateful you’re here. spi exists to provide a trusted learning and development ecosystem for online entrepreneurs. we are honored to help folks at all stages of their journey make progress toward new levels of success. whether you’re an aspiring entrepreneur or an accomplished one, we’re here for you. who is pat flynn? meet the man who started it all hey everyone! pat here. i’m a family man who learned about online business because i had to. like so many other people who have faced hardships in their jobs, i was forced to adapt—and quickly—to support myself and my family. today, i’m well into my plan b career. i graduated from college with an architecture degree and went to work for an amazing architectural firm as a job captain. i was thriving in my career and had no plans to leave it—but there are some parts of life we can’t control. the economic collapse of 2008 hit my industry hard. i watched with deep sadness as many of my colleagues lost their jobs. i survived for a while, so i began to think i might make it. i was wrong. with just a few months to go before my wedding, i was laid off too. read more on patflynn.com pat flynn, founder of spi buy on amazon $ this is an affiliate link it's about finding your passion and letting go. it's about believing in yourself and learning to succeed or fail on your merits, not the whims of the economy or factors outside of your control. this is a great dose of inspiration, and if that is what you are looking for (or if you just want to know more about pat's story), you won't be disappointed.” ryan, an amazon.com verified purchase reader review how spi began a little story about a big dream i felt lost and afraid in the wake of losing my job. i searched for answers and a new direction. what i found blew my mind. accidently, during my time at the firm, i had built a popular blog that housed my study notes for a prestigious industry exam. as a test, i created a complete study guide as a simple pdf and put it up on the site for sale. overnight, people began to buy it in droves. that discovery changed everything. my “niche site” led me into the world of internet marketing and online business. i learned the ropes of “passive income”—revenue streams that are anchored by high-quality free content that support the sale of a more premium product. at every step, i met remarkably kind, talented, and generous people who helped me. i knew quickly into my journey as an online entrepreneur that i wanted to help others to take back control of their careers, financial security, and life as i had. that was the spark that launched smart passive income (spi). i was thrilled and humbled by how quickly the spi community grew. the more i taught others, the more i learned myself. we grew together. at the five year mark, i wrote my memoir, let go, which shares in detail my origin story as an online entrepreneur. we continue to grow, evolve, and mature. the spi story is far from over. in fact, in many ways, it has only just begun. why and how we exist our mission, vision, and core values we are proud to be a purpose-driven company in the service of others. a mission, vision, and set of core values are essential to such a company that is truly devoted to a cause greater than itself. we are excited to share ours here as a commitment to you of our authenticity as well as a means of ensuring that our work is held accountable to these high standards. mission a mission is a company’s northstar. it establishes a reason for being—a “why” we exist. all of our work is guided by this simple, empowering, and unifying statement. our mission: to elevate entrepreneurs to within reach of their dreams vision a vision is a direction, not a current-state reality, meaning we work in pursuit of achieving our vision. it is informed by the mission and describes that mission in more precise, actionable terms. spi is a trusted learning and development ecosystem that serves a worldwide community of online entrepreneurs. the community is alive with individuals and teams from all walks of life and at all stages of their entrepreneurial journeys bonded by a common cause—to build purpose-driven and profitable businesses they can be proud of. spi empowers its community members to take action toward achieving their goals by providing best-in-class educational content and training experiences. beyond its own creations, spi partners up with other industry experts to develop and champion useful resources that further enable its own mission. core values core values are declarations of integrity not to be negotiated. they inform judgment and govern behaviors in a world where the quality of one’s choices defines who they truly are far more than their abilities. work with purpose the best, most valuable work we can do comes from focusing on priorities, reducing waste of resources, providing helpful feedback, and collaborating with positive intentions. share without ego we offer the complete picture of our experiences—to ourselves and to our audience—to enable authentic learning that promotes our values without compromise. take care we strive to care for our team and our community through being considerate of the needs, goals, and boundaries of all, weaving empathy and service into every action and intention. own your outcome embrace the privilege that responsibilities provide to do deep work that delivers meaningful results and makes a positive difference in the lives of others. embrace the process be curious. learn from failure and admit mistakes. question assumptions and explore opportunities. reduce chaos. promote sustainability. and find as much joy in the work as in the success. choose health we embrace, without guilt, the flexibility of our work life that allows us to take care of ourselves first so that we can better serve others. our awesome team meet the people who make it all possible all things spi are brought to you by an amazing team of talented professionals. each member of our team has years of experience across a range of business-critical superpowers that we need to live out our mission. they are the heroes behind the scenes. meet our team our trusted partners we could not do it without them from our beloved smart bar platform partners to our inner circle of talented service specialists, our partners make our work better every step of the way. meet our partners our world-class community about us? it’s about you. you are our reason for being. whether you’re an aspiring entrepreneur or an accomplished one, we do what we do to serve you. our work will never be done because entrepreneurial missions are big, visions are long, and needs are ever-changing. we appreciate you and are here for you for the long haul. the spi community of like-minded entrepreneurs comes together and comes alive most through our email subscription. we’d love to have you join if you haven’t already. it's forever free, filled with exclusive content, and always optional; you can easily unsubscribe anytime. see you on the inside! want the inside scoop? join the community our email content is full of value, void of hype, tailored to your interests whenever possible, never pushy, and always free. subscribe now let's figure out what works for you + free stuff! thanks! now check your email. there was an error submitting your subscription. please try again. first name email address we use this field to detect spam bots. if you fill this in, you will be marked as a spammer. i'd like to receive a free 30 day course by email. click here to subscribe reasons to subscribe to the spi email list: free stuff you'll get instant access to free resources, including my most popular book, ebooks the smart way! (downloaded over 125,000 times!) content tailored to you over time, i'll get to learn more about you and deliver content that actually matters. no hype just real content that's meant to make a difference. footer learn affiliate marketing business development digital marketing email marketing online courses personal development podcasting listen the spi podcast askpat 2.0 connect webinars workshops see pat speak resources courses tools books about pat flynn spi team partners follow us © copyright 2020 spi media llc. all rights reserved. privacy policy affiliate disclaimer earnings disclaimer terms of use dmca policy cookie policy contact spi what do you want to learn today? search popular searches rank my podcast make money from podcast start a blog build an email list create a course freelancing more categories affiliate marketing blogging business email marketing podcasting tools less