toggle navigation skip to content home about jonny travel stuff accommodation a lifestyle of travel book reviews crazy stories everywhere i’ve stayed football stadiums i’ve visited funny travel stories! getting started health travel places i’ve been travel buddies travel e-books travel lists where i’ve been where i’ve stayed visas work and travel bar work farming make money blogging media and pr my first travel blog my travel timeline my working career public relations superstar blogging course teaching english working holidays regular features backpacking buddies monday’s money saving tips tuesday’s travel essentials working wednesdays thirsty thursdays friday’s featured food sunday’s inspiration my top 5s random rants the day i travel collectables world borders world travellers advertise contacts don't stop living: a lifestyle of travel, jonny blair's travel blog where has jonny been?jonny's regular features my travels read my stories from every continent, over 150 countries, over 1200 settlements. africa algeria angola benin botswana burundi dr congo egypt ethiopia ivory coast kenya lesotho maasai tribe morocco namibia rwanda senegal south africa swaziland / eswatini tanzania uganda the gambia togo tunisia western sahara zambia zimbabwe antarctica antarctica british antarctica south shetlands asia bangladesh brunei darussalam burma cambodia china east timor hong kong india indonesia japan laos macau malaysia mongolia myanmar north korea philippines singapore south korea sri lanka taiwan thailand vietnam central america and the caribbean belize costa rica el salvador guatemala honduras nicaragua panama trinidad and tobago central asia and middle east armenia afghanistan azerbaijan belarus bahrain chernobyl excl. zone druze people georgia gorno-badakhshan iran iraq israel karakalpakstan kazakhstan jordan kurdistan kuwait kyrgyzstan lebanon moldova nagorno karabakh oman palestine qatar russia saudi arabia transnistria tajikistan turkey turkmenistan united arab emirates uzbekistan europe adammia andorra austenasia austria autistan basque country bavaria belgium republika bialenska bosnia-herzegovina brittany bulgaria catalonia freetown christiania croatia cyprus czech republic denmark dont stop living estonia faroe islands finland france frestonia germany german death camps gibraltar greece herzegovina hungary iceland italy kashubia kosovo krolestwo dreamlandu księstwa sarmacji ladonia lagoan isles kaliningrad kugel mugel latvia liechtenstein lithuania lovely luxembourg fyr macedonia malta monaco montenegro netherlands northern cyprus other world kingdom norway poland podjistan portugal republic of ireland republic of srpska romania romkerhall san escobar san marino serbia slovakia slovenia sovereign military order of malta spain sweden switzerland the republic of uzupis ukraine vatican city kingdom of wallachia north america canada islandia mexico oceania aboriginal australia australia fiji fso micronesia guam kiribati maori new zealand nauru marshall islands new zealand papua new guinea solomon islands queensland new south wales tasmania australian capital territory victoria south america argentina bolivia brazil chile colombia ecuador french guyana guyana inca trail paraguay peru suriname tierra del fuego uruguay venezuela untied queendom united kingdom countries england northern ireland scotland wales – cymru united kingdom territories, counties and regions cornwall devon dorset guernsey herm island isle of wight jersey sark other popular categories afc bournemouth glentoran fc northern ireland football scuba diving “where do you go? buttoned in your favourite coat, stepping out to a different world, and you might be home late” – ocean colour scene. useful sites: check out caliber – online personal trainers and nutrition experts that you can access anywhere and anytime. check out travel options at expedia gutschein a hardworking person is always welcome wherever they travel. get the right tools at tooltally. do you fancy some entertainment during your trips? on neuecasinos24 you will find some no deposit bonus for new online casinos. just spin the waiting time away. world’s best casinos www.buycarparts.co.uk cruises from sydney globo surf zessay.com – hire an essay writer to get your essay completed. just say “write my paper for me” and our writing experts will get it done! ibuyessay.com never disappoints and always delivers custom essays on time. visit this finchley dentist to keep your oral health in check get the latest health updates, medical travel information and news on disease outbreaks in countries across the globe. if you travel a lot, a timeshare resale might be able to help you save you some money on your hotel costs. if you choose to purchase and want to sell later, make sure to get a timeshare worth estimate online. a wyndham timeshare value will likely net you a few hundred. whenever i want to take a break from traveling i love to stay home, in front of a fire place and read fisherpants magazine. ehic renewal application go to africa africa read jonny’s stories from africa, from feeding hyenas mouth to mouth in ethiopia to stroking crocodiles in the gambia to the 100 country toast in tunisia to a shipwreck graveyard in angola. #tourist #dontstopliving #africa go to antarctica antarctica read jonny’s stories from touring antarctica in 2010, where he visited the british and polish bases, swam in the cold sea, hiked cuverville island and fell in love with a girl. #tourist #dontstopliving #antarctica go to asia asia since his first visit to asia in 2007, jonny has visited all except 6 asian countries, spending over 3 years in china and hong kong alone. he has written passionately about china, hong kong, north korea, bangladesh, singapore and east timor and also covered some unusual parts of taiwan and india. #tourist #dontstopliving #asia go to europe europe read all jonny’s stories from europe, his home continent. jonny grew up in bangor, northern ireland and later lived in bournemouth, dartford and london (england) before his biggest challenge of relocating to poland in 2016, where jonny has since lived in brzeźno, gdańsk and warszawa. jonny has been to over 70 countries in europe alone. #tourist #dontstopliving #europe go to former soviet union former soviet union with a potential 23 countries to visit in what was once the soviet union (cccp), jonny has only a few left to visit such as abkhazia and south ossetia. over the years jonny has visited azerbaijan, belarus, uzupis, karakalpakstan and moldova. #tourist #ussr #sovietunion #dontstopliving go to micronations and crazy republics micronations and crazy republics jonny’s real backpacking niche lies in remote towns, unrecognised countries, wacaday republics, disputed regions, self-proclaimed countries, special zones and pure fire micronations. expect to read the only backpacking stories on places like nedland, austenasia, krolestwo dreamlandu, adammia and everywhere you never heard of. #tourist #wacaday #crazycountries #dontstopliving go to middle east middle east read about jonny’s journeys in the middle east. jonny has toured iraq, iran, jordan, uae, bahrain, afghanistan and some truly remote places not covered anywhere else like isfiya, jabal um sanman and yaseh chah. #tourist #dontstopliving #middleeast north america read jonny’s journeys through north and central america. from toronto (birthplace of this website) all the way south to panama city including devouring mexican food and loving el salvador. #centralamerica #northamerica #tourist #dontstopliving go to northern ireland northern ireland as a proud northern irishman, jonny also goes backpacking and groundhopping in his home country’s six beautiful counties. this also takes us “off the wheaten craic” to places like milford, ballyhalbert and ballintoy. #northernireland #norniron #dontstopliving #tourist go to oceania oceania jonny spent 2 years living in the land down under, australia and has also backpacked twice through new zealand and a load of pacific islands. jonny wrote heavily about australia, in particular parramatta and tasmania and visited every village and region of nauru. #tourist #oceania #nauru #dontstopliving go to south america south america read jonny’s adventures through every country in south america. here jonny backpacks overland through the guyana hat-trick, attends the world cup final in brazil and visits the triple border between argentina, brazil and paraguay. #dontstopliving #tourist #southamerica follow jonny's story on facebook don't stop living facebook jonny's favourites read detailed stories and tips from jonny's travels visa advice jonny’s expert visa advice facebook account of visa advice twitter account of visa advice behance account of visa advice dribble account of visa advice linkedin account of visa advice jonny’s expert visa advice border crossing jonny’s expert border crossing advice facebook account of border crossing twitter account of border crossing behance account of border crossing dribble account of border crossing linkedin account of border crossing jonny’s expert border crossing advice crazy stories jonny’s lunatical adventures. facebook account of crazy stories twitter account of crazy stories behance account of crazy stories dribble account of crazy stories linkedin account of crazy stories jonny’s lunatical adventures. northern ireland jonny’s tours of his northern irish homeland facebook account of northern ireland twitter account of northern ireland behance account of northern ireland dribble account of northern ireland linkedin account of northern ireland jonny’s tours of his northern irish homeland jonny blair in the media jonny blair has qualifications in radio production, journalism and public relations. as a result, he has featured prominently in football, travel and music media the world over during his life. a northern ireland fan who has visited more than 100 countries is hoping for a special victory on saturday. jonny blair, 36, from bangor in co down, said he had been caught up in the buzz of the euro 2016 championship. he is a full-time traveller who was at several of the team’s away game qualifiers in places like romania and the faroe islands. mr blair said: “i have been to over 100 countries now and this is just another step on the journey, so it is off to another destination after the tournament anyway, win, lose or draw.” he added: “i just got the big buzz of finally being at a tournament so i had to be here.” belfast telegraph much-travelled northern ireland fan hopes for special victory from bangor, co down, jonny blair has travelled to afghanistan, iraq, el salvador and many places you may not have even ever heard of – such as transnistria and the republic of karakalpakstan. a travel writer and backpacker, he has been travelling full-time for seven of the past 13 years and has visited around 120 countries – many of them currently struggling under the weight of years of warfare. “i like to go to places where there are typically less tourists, or preferably, no other tourists,” says blair, who takes up jobs along the way and blogs at dontstopliving.net. irish times ‘i’ve been to afghanistan and iraq, but main security incident i experienced was in belfast’ these photographs are more than holiday snaps. the man in them, originally from bangor, northern ireland, has made travelling his lifestyle for the last 10 years. during the decade since he packed his bags, jonny blair has visited more than 70 countries, met tribespeople, worked on farms, fed hyenas and been white-water rafting. and he has brought a reminder of home on his journey. bbc bangor man travels the world with northern ireland flag jonny blair, a 36-year-old irish backpacker, said he was undaunted by the violence. “my lasting memory of afghanistan was playing football with children by the buddha monastery in samangan (northern afghanistan) (and) a night out drinking tea and smoking shisha (water pipe) in mazari-sharif,” he told afp. “it’s totally worth the risk.” daily mail war tourism in afghanistan: adventure or reckless hedonism? jonny's latest stories stalk what this nomadic, wacaday ulsterman has been up to recently. he has shared his life with the world since 2007. important yet highly overlooked items when travelling traveling is fun. studies have shown that traveling regularly is suitable for your brain functionality, reduces stress, and reduces the chances of developing a heart attack. this is the perfect time for you to unwind and re-energize after a long week, month, or year of work and school. just because you are a working read more about important yet highly overlooked items when travelling[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... backpacking in saudi arabia: touring ushaiqer town, basically a museum in a guy’s house! my backpacking adventures in saudi arabia continued with some day trips away from the humungous capital city riyadh. it was towards the end of our trip that we ended up in ushaiqer (which sounded like “u shag her” at the start). on the same day that we visited the salt flats, the village of rabat, read more about backpacking in saudi arabia: touring ushaiqer town, basically a museum in a guy’s house![…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... backpacking in south africa: the most south-western tip of africa, the cape of good hope “so give me hope joanna, give me hope joanna” – eddy grant. as a perpetual tourist, i love ticking off a textbook “tip”, “point” or “peak” on my wacaday journeys. memories of such achievements in days of yore came reeling back, and they continue to do that on life’s sentimental worldic curveball. i remembered vividly read more about backpacking in south africa: the most south-western tip of africa, the cape of good hope[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... 6 tips for dealing with depression have you been feeling unmotivated, sad, and lacking in energy? with everything going on in the world these days, that might be more common than you think. these signs, and quite a few more, can be symptoms of depression, which is a major mental condition that has the ability to turn your motivation and mood read more about 6 tips for dealing with depression[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... full list of cities, towns, villages, settlements or significant places i’ve been to “keep on chasing down that rainbow. you never know what you might find” – noel gallagher. on this list i have included everywhere i have been narrowed down to cities, towns, villages or what i deem to be a significant place. significant places could be prominent waterfalls (e.g. victoria falls), sights (e.g. giant’s causeway), mountains read more about full list of cities, towns, villages, settlements or significant places i’ve been to[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... tips for the overlander: best car deals to avoid public transport, many overlanders rent their own vehicle. however in australia, i decided to buy a car. it was a toyota hilux, the second car i owned. yes it can be tough to save the money for it but worth it. even if you can’t pay five figures fully in cash, the next read more about tips for the overlander: best car deals[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... world borders: how to get from france to monaco (and get your passport stamped in monte carlo) “give me something i can rely on, far away from the life that i once know – monaco. monaco is an enigma, that’s for sure! as a lover of wacaday republics, unrecognised states, countries that don’t exist, nations unofficial and unclaimed lands, monaco was right up my street. and it was a handy little trip read more about world borders: how to get from france to monaco (and get your passport stamped in monte carlo)[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... 5 tips for keeping busy when you’re stuck in your hostel when people tell you you must go traveling, they usually forget to mention the downtime. while adventuring across the world is a lot of fun, there will be points where you’re stuck in your hostel bored out of your skull waiting for the next chance to get out or party. this doesn’t need to read more about 5 tips for keeping busy when you’re stuck in your hostel[…] share this cool article: linkedin email twitter facebook like this: like loading... previous next contact jonny blair jonny blair is a very approachable and welcoming guy, message him here, he replies to every message that doesn't go into junk. warszawa, polska jonny@dontstopliving.net facebook link twitter link instagram link all content is copyright jonny scott blair unless otherwise stated. zerif lite developed by themeisle send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: