frugal living in the uk search primary menu skip to content welcome food food shopping tips free food frugal recipes frugal weightloss home and life around the house books on frugal living days out & holidays finance abundance make a few pounds readers tips & freebies frugal christmas the sales! contact contact form get our newsletters! links privacy search for: recipe beer battered onion rings recipe, soup yellow split pea soup beans and pulses, entree, recipe chick pea curry welcome frugal living in the uk went online in 2003 and has gradually grown into quite a collection of advice and articles. you’ll find recipes, food shopping tips, household savings, advice on cheap days out and holidays, ways to make a few pounds, get freebies and even sales and frugal christmas 🙂 whether you want to reduce your debts, save for a holiday, stay at home with your children, live more simply or just beat the system a little and end up with more cash, we hope you find something here to help. consider yourself as in a clothes shop – look around, try the ideas on for size, take what’s right for you and leave the rest for someone else. latest posts: the 25p meal and upcycling pallets follow us on twitter or facebook or subscribe to our mailing list. old favourites: mysurvey uk – survey participation rewarded with redeemable points and £2000 prize draw entries. top cashback is the uk’s most generous cashback website. approved food sell clearance food, drink and household items online. they’re a fantastic source of bargains. latest additions to the site the sales! our new page listing both time sensitive sales and discount shops. everything5pounds sell unsold stock from top high st. brands, all detagged, and all £5. swagbucks.com – pays gift cards and cash for things you do online anyway like shopping and taking surveys. cheaper ways to shop on amazon now with their certified refurbished section and the outlet for overstocks and marked down items. graze are offering a first box free, with no obligation to continue past the first box! new recipes: beer battered onion rings, roast pumpkin and garlic pasta, potato and onion pie, 3 ingredient raw chocolate bites, bramble chocolate chip cakes and porridge! you can read our latest newsletter detailing all that’s new here share this: click to share on twitter (opens in new window) click to share on facebook (opens in new window) more click to email this to a friend (opens in new window) click to share on linkedin (opens in new window) click to share on pocket (opens in new window) click to share on pinterest (opens in new window) click to print (opens in new window) click to share on tumblr (opens in new window) click to share on reddit (opens in new window) like this: like loading... thrifty living tips, money-saving advice and cheap to make recipes subscribe to site via email enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. join 12,867 other subscribers email address subscribe search for: set in the late sixteenth century, at the height of the scottish witchcraft accusations, the mermaid and the bear is a story of triumph over evil, hope through adversity, faith in humankind and – above all – love. amazon waterstones author website follow us on twittermy tweets like us on facebook! like us on facebook! top posts & pages get a free graze box! food for free - a great guide to britain’s wild foods – goji berries may cost a bit, but many superfoods are all around us for the taking! a great favourite of ours – detailing wild herbs, berries, greens sea vegetables and fungi. buy from amazon.co.uk rss - posts rss - comments proudly powered by wordpress send to email address your name your email address cancel post was not sent - check your email addresses! email check failed, please try again sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. %d bloggers like this: