warning: use of undefined constant ddsg_language - assumed 'ddsg_language' (this will throw an error in a future version of php) in /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sitemap-generator/sitemap-generator.php on line 44 warning: cannot modify header information - headers already sent by (output started at /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sitemap-generator/sitemap-generator.php:44) in /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/sg-cachepress/core/supercacher/supercacher_helper.php on line 77 welcome to state gifts usa - state gifts usa welcome to state gifts usa about / faq national days list advertise with us contact us privacy/disclosure site map see our latest posts select page welcome to state gifts usa warning: count(): parameter must be an array or an object that implements countable in /home/bourbono/public_html/stategifts/wp-content/plugins/really-simple-facebook-twitter-share-buttons/really-simple-facebook-twitter-share-buttons.php on line 538 spotlighting small businesses & made in america products discover great gift ideas from all 50 states 3,000+ gift ideas from american small businesses in a state by state gift guide – we link directly to each featured business so you can buy direct what we do for you:: made in colorado our site is a featured listing service spotlighting small businesses and made in america products from each of the 50 states. click on any state (to your right) and see over 3,000 made in the usa products … we do not stock, sell, or ship the products … we link directly to each small businesses website so you can buy directly – not through a middle man! american businesses: get your business featured on stategiftsusa.com: stategiftsusa.com provides exposure for your business and your made in america products, divided by state … click here to get featured on your state’s page today! at stategiftsusa.com, you’ll find over 3,000 products made in america, with more added every day … new this week: we’re pleased to bring you another locally made culinary specialty, this time from georgia. check out our feature on the white sauce, a versatile and slightly sweeter take on traditional white barbecue sauce. this stuff is fabulous! discover how versatile it is and how to order it directly at our made in georgia page … a great cup of coffee is highly underrated! finding one is the inspiration for this new adventuresome alabama company called adverturer’s coffee … discover their story and how to get their fantastic blends delivered right to your doorstep on our made in alabama page … each of the 50 states has at least 40+ products featured! we’ve brought them together for you in an ever expanding list from all 50 states, along with a little background and how to buy. all companies listed on state gifts usa will ship right to your door! we’re strong advocates of “buy local” because we believe local businesses are the engine that drives america. a gift from your state is the perfect personal touch for that long-since-moved-away relative, a valued business client across the country, or as a thank you gift for someone special in your life. in this age of chain stores, chain restaurants, and faceless corporations, it’s easy to forget there are small, hardworking specialty companies producing some really great products. we bring them to you and share the pride of their efforts … j. lee’s gourmet bbq sauce small independent businesses form the backbone of the united states economy, and we’re proud to spotlight their homegrown and handcrafted products … discover the unique and diverse products produced in every state across america. you’d be amazed at all the interesting products made in each of 50 states – there’s something for everyone on your gift list. state gifts usa brings all these specialty items together in one place, saving you the hassle of tracking down how and where to buy! check out each state’s page – see products and gifts made in all 50 states! buy local for a friend, as a thank you gift, or as a special treat for yourself! click on each of the 50 states to get a “flavor” for what makes them unique and special. new businesses are added daily, and we welcome suggestions from our readers. here are a few local products you’ll see by clicking on the states in the right hand menu: maryland crab cakes delectable michigan fruit decorative mississippi made pottery freshly made hawaiian delicacies sea salt from massachusetts beautiful montana agate gemstone jewelry famous texas barbecue sauce ohio chocolate buckeye candies california made jams & jellies oregon grown berry products delicacies from maine homemade soaps from north carolina virginia peanuts new mexico pecans alaskan seafood specialties kansas barbecue world class wisconsin cheese rhode island sea glass jewelry alaga syrup: the sweetness of the south new! check out each state’s page for state “did you know”, trivia, and fun facts! thank you for visiting stategiftsusa.com … where everything is made in the usa! * * all 50 states alabama: “the heart of dixie” alaska: “the last frontier” arizona: “the grand canyon state” arkansas: “the natural state” california: “the golden state” colorado: “the centennial state” connecticut: “the constitution state” delaware: “the first state” florida: “the sunshine state” georgia: “the peach state” hawaii: “the aloha state” idaho: “the gem state” illinois: “land of lincoln” indiana: “the hoosier state” iowa: “the hawkeye state” kansas: “the sunflower state” kentucky: “the bluegrass state” louisiana: “the pelican state” maine: “the pine tree state” maryland: “the old line state” massachusetts: “the bay state” michigan: “the wolverine state” minnesota: “the north star state” mississippi: “the magnolia state” missouri: “the show me state” montana: “the treasure state” nebraska: “the cornhusker state” nevada: “the silver state” new hampshire: “the granite state” new jersey: “the garden state” new mexico: “land of enchantment” new york: “the empire state” north carolina: “the tar heel state” north dakota: “the peace garden state” ohio: “the buckeye state” oklahoma: “the sooner state” oregon: “the beaver state” pennsylvania: “the keystone state” rhode island: “the ocean state” south carolina: “the palmetto state” south dakota: “the mount rushmore state” tennessee: “the volunteer state” texas: “the lone star state” utah: “the beehive state” vermont: “the green mountain state” virginia: “old dominion” washington d.c. washington: “the evergreen state” west virginia: “the mountain state” wisconsin: “the badger state” wyoming: “the equality state” facebook twitter google copyright 2018 stategiftsusa.com