sign in to your forbes account or register please help us continue to provide you with free, quality journalism by turning off your ad blocker on our site. for instructions on how to disable your ad blocker, click here.i’ve turned off my ad blocker or sign in to continue using an ad blocker thank you for signing in. if this is your first time registering, please check your inbox for more information about the benefits of your forbes account and what you can do next! i agree to receive occasional updates and announcements about forbes products and services. you may opt out at any time. i'd like to receive the forbes daily dozen newsletter to get the top 12 headlines every morning.forbes takes privacy seriously and is committed to transparency. we will never share your email address with third parties without your permission. by signing in, you are indicating that you accept our terms of service and privacy statement. billionaires all billionaires world's billionaires forbes 400 america's richest self-made women china's richest india's richest indonesia's richest korea's richest thailand's richest japan's richest australia's richest taiwan's richest singapore's richest philippines' richest hong kong's richest malaysia's richest money & politics 2020 money innovation all innovation 5g ai big data cio network cloud cloud 100 consumer tech cybersecurity enterprise tech everbridge brandvoice | paid program games green tech healthcare oracle brandvoice | paid program sap brandvoice | paid program science servicenow brandvoice | paid program social media t-mobile for business brandvoice | paid program venture capital leadership all leadership careers cfo network cmo network deloitte brandvoice | paid program diversity & inclusion education forbeswomen google cloud brandvoice | paid program leadership strategy under 30 working remote money all money banking & insurance crypto & blockchain etfs & mutual funds fintech hedge funds & private equity investing markets personal finance premium investing newsletters retirement taxes wealth management business all business aerospace & defense energy food & drink hollywood & entertainment manufacturing media mitsubishi heavy industries brandvoice | paid program policy real estate retail sportsmoney transportation small business all small business entrepreneurs franchises small business strategy lifestyle all lifestyle amway brandvoice | paid program arts boats & planes cars & bikes dining forbeslife forbes travel guide spirits travel vices watches lists all lists advisor all advisor the best credit cards of 2020 best travel credit cards best business credit cards best credit card sign up bonuses best rewards credit cards best student credit cards best cash back credit cards best balance transfer credit cards best hotel credit cards best airline credit cards best first credit cards best credit cards for bad credit chase sapphire preferred card citi double cash card the platinum card from american express ink business preferred credit card bank of america premium rewards credit card chase sapphire reserve card best tax software of 2020 best travel insurance companies featured 5 innovations changing the future of food 30 under 30 2020 aarp brandvoice | paid program abb brandvoice | paid program chase home lending brandvoice | paid program cole haan brandvoice | paid program dna of success forbes ai: forbes insights with ibm | paid program forbes analytics plus with teradata | paid program forbes insights with arm treasure data investor forecast: 5 key trends shaping your financial future money 2020 set up for success: scale your small business the leukemia & lymphoma society brandvoice | paid program today's military brandvoice | paid program voices of success well earned: the world's wealthiest celebrate new milestones breaking all breaking coronavirus more forbes daily cover stories forbes editors' picks daily dozen briefing crypto confidential newsletters forbes shopping forbes coupons forbes 8 forbes video dark capital forbes magazine investing digest free issue of forbes site feedback tips corrections privacy terms adchoices reprints & permissions © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved beta this is a beta experience. you may opt-out by clicking here edit story forbes wealth teamforbes staff money share to facebook share to twitter share to linkedin together the members of the forbes 400 list of richest americans are worth a record-setting $2.96 trillion. that figure didn’t grow on its own. the entrepreneurs among the 400 list have made plenty of bold moves—and have taken risks—to achieve success. whether by pioneering new industries or innovating in old ones, many members of the forbes 400 have made their companies more valuable with their bold decisions. here are six stories behind some of the past year’s most impressive milestones. by carter coudriet revenue at the company, which is now one of the largest wholesale distributors of roofing, siding and windows, was under $3 billion when she took over. she steered abc through the two biggest acquisitions in its history, buying rival bradco in 2010 and building materials distributor l&w supply in 2016. hendricks is the richest self-made woman in the u.s., worth $7 billion, attributable primarily to her ownership of the company. that makes her america’s 14th-richest woman and 79th-richest person. the company’s stock is up nearly 50% in the past year, pushing board member william lauder—a grandson of founder estée lauder—into the forbes 400 for the first time. altogether the five lauder family members on the forbes 400, including william’s father leonard, his uncle ronald and cousins aerin and jane, are worth $32.9 billion this year, up by $8.7 billion from a year ago. william’s brother, gary, meanwhile has moved into the ten-figure club for the first time. style icon estée lauder founded the company in 1946. it’s grown to encompass brands including clinique, smashbox and too faced. sales reached a record $14.9 billion in the latest fiscal year. in late 2018 and early 2019 snap suffered a wave of executive departures amid a downturn in the number of users, as the company faced growing competition from instagram, which is owned by facebook. the recent turnaround in users came after the company introduced a new augmented reality lens for its in-app pictures and a rebuilt version of its app for android phones. thanks to better results, the stock rose nearly 70% in the past year and the fortunes of its two cofounders jumped over 55% apiece. stanford fraternity brothers spiegel and murphy launched snapchat in 2011 and renamed the company to snap in 2016. it is especially popular with teenagers and millennials, who use it to send disappearing photos and videos. spiegel, who first debuted as a billionaire at age 25, is the youngest member of the forbes 400, at age 29, for the fifth year in a row. that move landed zscaler founder and ceo chaudhry on the forbes 400 list for the first time. his is a rags-to-riches tale: he grew up in a village in india’s himalayan mountains that didn’t have electricity or running water until he was a teenager. chaudhry’s first time in an airplane was a one-way trip to attend the university of cincinnati, where he earned an m.b.a. and two engineering master’s degrees. a serial entrepreneur, he sold companies he’d founded to motorola and at&t and took zscaler, which he founded in 2008, public in march 2018. the company’s security software tracks 70 billion internet transactions daily looking for threats like malware and bots. customers include siemens and britain’s national health service. as a result, founder michael dell tacked on $4.7 billion in net worth in the past year, clocking in at an estimated $32.3 billion. he’s now ranked no. 18 among the richest in the u.s. dell, who started the personal computer maker in his university of texas dorm room in 1984, initially took it public in 1988. he privatized it in 2013 as the company’s flagship pc products became less profitable. dell spent the next five years paying down debt, boosting profits and acquiring over 80% of cloud computing and virtualization powerhouse vmware. “like our customers, we had to transform for a new digital era,” dell told investors in 2018. the stock is up 16% since its listing late last year. the all-cash deal was announced just hours after wes anderson’s isle of dogs, which steven rales co-produced, came up short in february at the academy awards after being nominated for best animated feature. the acquisition of the ge assets is expected to close in the fourth quarter, but danaher’s stock price has already risen by nearly one fourth since the february announcement, helping to boost the brothers’ fortunes by $700 million apiece. acquisitions are nothing new for danaher. the brothers started their industrial conglomerate with the acquisition of a reit in 1983 and then merged their acquisitions into the firm. they were inspired to name the firm danaher (dana means swift flowing in celtic) after a fishing trip to montana. over the years, the company has acquired hundreds of companies. more than 50% of danaher’s $19.9 billion in revenue today has been acquired in the past seven years. the brothers no longer run the business but remain on the board. credits: jamel toppin/forbes collection; michael grecco/forbes collection; david paul morris/bloomberg; rodin eckenroth/getty images; goran kosanovic/the washington post via getty images; alexandra valenti/forbes collection; gary gershoff:wireimage/getty images forbes wealth team print site feedback tips corrections reprints & permissions terms privacy © 2020 forbes media llc. all rights reserved. adchoices