close mobile menu search this website home start here about resources podcast blog health beauty mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel reviews recipes beef recipes breakfast recipes condiment recipes dessert recipes drink recipes pork recipes poultry recipes salad recipes seafood recipes side dish recipes snack recipes soup & stew recipes newsletter shop menu skip to right header navigation skip to main content skip to primary sidebar skip to footer simple answers for healthier families about start here resources podcast blog beauty health mama wellness natural home natural remedies organization travel recipes reviews shop search you are here: home » promotions, sponsorship, & advertising guidelines promotions, sponsorship, & advertising guidelines thank you for your interest in partnering with wellnessmama.com for promotional purposes. our goal is to create the best website community for women and moms, so we are laser focused on our audience and providing them the best experience and resources available. for this reason we only promote and share products that we personally use and consider to be the best option(s) available. the following is our guidelines for promotions, advertising, sponsorship, and affiliate relationships. promotional guidelines we are excited to announce that we will be releasing our own physical products in 2019. as such, we are reserving much of our promotional calendar for our own internal needs and are taking on very few outside promotions and sponsorships. consideration of companies and products due to such high demand, we only review and consider new companies, products, affiliates, and promotions once a month. if we are interested in your product or service we will reach out for more detail after this monthly review. promotional timeline our promotional calendar is consistently booked up three months in advance, so we are unable to accommodate or consider requests made for promotional events or sales within a 30-day period or less. our focus is on education first and foremost, so all promotions must fit within our editorial, seasonal, and promotional calendars. for this reason, we are rarely able to fulfill requests to promote on a specific timeline and can only work in promotions, sales, or links in a way that is natural and at our sole discretion. we do not offer specific date requests for any promotions (with rare exception). existing affiliate partners and companies we work with can let us know when events or sales are happening but we cannot guarantee we will promote on a requested schedule. types of promotions available at this time, podcast sponsorships are the only type of type of paid promotion that we have available. these are booked out three months at time, and since the podcast is rapidly growing, prices typically increase every six month. if your company is interested in securing any available slots, please let us know as soon as possible before the cost goes up and open spots are entirely filled. due to our audience response, we are no longer promoting docu-series, summits, ebooks, book launches, or similar products and events. for products and companies that meet our strict quality guidelines and are a perfect fit for our audience, we will on occasion add in links to existing blog posts or new articles, but these are handled on a case-by-case basis at our discretion and on our company timeline. advertising guidelines all advertising on wellness mama is handled via the cafe media/adthrive network. we don’t work with public relations or advertising agencies for any ad placement. all requests for paid ads on the website should be directed to adthrive. if you have additional questions about these policies and guidelines, you may contact advertising and affiliate manger here. thanks again for your interest in working with wellness mama. we appreciate your interest and your understanding of our promotional policies. footer sitemap start here comment policy affiliate disclosure newsletter privacy policy terms of service full disclaimer promo guidelines contact site footer the information on this website has not been evaluated by the fda and is not intended to diagnose, treat, prevent, or cure any disease. by accessing or using this website, you agree to abide by the terms of service, full disclaimer, privacy policy, affiliate disclosure, and comment policy. content may not be reproduced in any form. ads provided by cafemedia family & parenting network. displayed ads do not constitute endorsement or recommendation by wellness mama. copyright © 2006–2020 wellness mama® · all rights reserved · sitemap