start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step menu search search search wellness challenge 2020 – small improvements everyday wellness challenge 2020 - small improvements everyday today's challenge: i will spend 15 minutes in the evening planning my day for tomorrow what is this wellness challenge 2020? the 2020 wellness challenge expects you to make a small improvement each day to become a better person. the improvements are simple and easy to implement. these small improvements add up to a lot of value over time. if you think your friend needs to take up this challenge, do let him/her know. inviting a friend will make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. daily challenges for march 2020 01 mar - i will work out for at least 30 minutes 02 mar - i will work without using smartphone 03 mar - i will avoid all forms of negative self talk 04 mar - i will spend less money than i usually do 05 mar - i will avoid news in all forms - websites, tv, social media 06 mar - i will look at my mistakes and analyze what i could have done better 07 mar - i will not watch tv 08 mar - i will declutter a drawer, table or a cupboard 09 mar - i will pause for a second before replying to anyone 10 mar - i will not check emails first 11 mar - i will read 10 pages of a book 12 mar - i will eat one meal with my family 13 mar - i will not initiate or participate in any gossip 14 mar - i will stay away from all electronics(phone included) for 60 minutes before bedtime 15 mar - i will stand up once every hour at work 16 mar - i will do something nice for someone unexpectedly 17 mar - i will smile more today 18 mar - i will not consume any sugar 19 mar - i will go on a 15 min walk 20 mar - i will drink a fresh juices instead of aerated juices 21 mar - i will get rid of 5 things i do not use 22 mar - i will write about my day for at least 5 minutes before going to bed 23 mar - i will do something i loved doing as a child 24 mar - i will not lie 25 mar - i will not be late for any commitment 26 mar - i will not eat any fried food today 27 mar - i will spend 15 minutes in the evening planning my day for tomorrow 28 mar - i will call an old friend 29 mar - i will thank at least one random person 30 mar - i will unsubscribe from unnecessary emails 31 mar - i will not interrupt a person who is speaking what is 2020 wellness challenge about? how does the challenge work? the challenge is based on the kaizen philosophy, which originated in japan. it targets small and easy improvements every day which add up to produce great results by continuous improvement. all you have to do is complete one challenge a day mentioned on this page. you have heard about fun challenges like kiki and the ice bucket challenge. it's time you took up a self-improvement challenge this time. i just started today, should i begin from today's challenge or all the way from day 1? if you heard about the challenge today, start from today's challenge. the sequence does not really matter. these are small improvements which help you improve day by day. making sure you work towards one improvement a day is more important than following a sequence. what about the previous challenges i have not completed? do not worry about the past challenges. start from today. every day you will have a new challenge which will help you improve over time. do not sweat about the past and focus on future improvements. you will still have a ton of scope for improvement. how many improvements should i do every day? the challenge expects you to target one improvement a day. if you find any of the challenges beneficial to your growth, relationships or happiness, you can even follow it as a daily habit. how do i participate in the challenge? you just have to bookmark this page. every day, a new challenge will show up on this same page. invite a friend to make the challenge more exciting. two is company, three is a crowd and four is a party. you can receive reminders on the challenge by adding your email below. the most simple way to participate in the challenge is to join the facebook group and receive the daily challenge on your feed everyday. what if i am busy to complete the challenge some day? missing a couple of challenges here and there will not impact your results much because you are in for the long haul. just do not make it a habit to skip challenges when you do not feel like doing them. the challenges exist to help you push yourself out of your comfort zone. does the challenge have any success stories? the same technique led to the success of companies like toyota, google, general electric, microsoft. bruce lee used the same techniques for his mastery. the british cycling team dominating the world by applying simple improvements every day. almost every person who has tried the method has reached high levels of success. get reminders on the 2020 wellness challenge your name your email 21shares my goal is to help people 1 million people pursue their dreams. share the article and help me with this mission. you don't need a reward to join the productive club, do you? plain and simple. did you find what you just read useful? great, then get more of such tips to sky rocket your productivity. join the productive club. your name your email 21shares top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator learn productivity hacks if you would like to boost your productivity and sky-rocket your efficiency, subsribe to our updates topics flaws of your brain growth at work improve focus overcome fear personal development phase 1 starting off with productivity phase 2 gaining momentum with routine phase 3 transform into a productive super human procrastination productivity sleep start your venture time management about | contact | ask any question | write a guest blog | privacy policy interview series interviews of other self improvement bloggers top articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide 9 genuine steps to quit your job and fulfill your dream how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd smart goal setting: the ultimate guide on how to do them right you spend 7.1 years of your life on your smartphone. what else? why people don’t quit a job that they hate? challenges the little better everyday improvement challenge the 7 day wake up early challenge test your productivity 30 day productivity challenge find where you waste time tips and tricks when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide productive club · copyright 2020 · all rights reserved menu start here latest articles improve focus interesting improvement challenges wellness challenge 2020 improve everyday challenge from a weak to confident communicator challenge how to start your business – 10 week challenge 30 day productivity challenge i need help to improve focus overcome procrastination overcome fear start my venture manage time improve myself step by step best articles when should i wake up to not feel tired? the complete guide a little better every day challenge – the kaizen way how to be absolutely clear about your long term goals how to work faster by turbocharging your speed how to grow mentally strong – 15 reliable tips how to negotiate salary: 10 tips to be fearless and shrewd 15 of the best books to read from various topics what book do i read next – book generator the website has been created to inspire, influence and infect people with positivity and help people begin their journey of chasing their dream goals. the target is to help 1 million people pursue their dream while having a full time job. will you be one among them?