u.s. edition newsu.s. newsworld newsbusinessenvironmenthealthsocial justice politicscongressdonald trump2020 elections trackerextremism entertainmentculture & artsmediacelebritytv & film lifestyle & beautyfood & drinkparentingtravelfindswellnessrelationshipsmoneyhome & livingwork/life communitiesqueer voiceswomenblack voiceslatino voicesasian voices special projectsimpact: project zeroimpact: this new worldhighlinelisten to americapodcastsblack history month 2020 huffpost personalvideohoroscopes from our partnersheadstrongwomen's workmy hair, my storywhat's working: purpose + profit newsletterscoupons internationalaustraliabrazilcanadaespañafranceελλάδα (greece)indiaitalia日本 (japan)한국 (korea)quebecu.k.u.s. follow us icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. terms | privacy policy part of huffpost wellness. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post. × log injoin huffpost plus newspolitics2020 electionsentertainmentcommunitylifepersonalvideoshoppingu.s. edition wellness zone 1 got major anxiety right now? here are 6 cheap mental health resources zone 2 is it possible that you had the coronavirus earlier this year? how to deal if everyone’s coronavirus anxiety is piling onto yours what outdoor activities are safe to do during the coronavirus pandemic? all of the important coronavirus terms, explained how to get the most out of your weekends in spite of coronavirus why cleaning and organizing is so therapeutic when we’re stressed you should see someone why we launched ‘you should see someone,’ a series on doing therapy 13 red flags you’re not getting what you need out of therapy the best places on the internet for people of color to talk about therapy zone 3 digestive issues might be an early sign of coronavirus new data suggests problems like nausea and diarrhea may be some of the first covid-19 symptoms. is it coronavirus or anxiety? yes, some symptoms can be similar. symptoms like shortness of breath, chest tightness and headaches can occur with stress and covid-19. here's how to differentiate them. what you need to know about at-home coronavirus tests some health care companies are selling covid-19 home tests. but should you really use them? for asian americans, there are two pandemics: covid-19 and daily bigotry “the person called my filipino mother a ‘chinese coronavirus bitch' and said that both of my parents are ‘bearers of the virus.’” these are the most common ways the coronavirus is transmitted you can get covid-19 anywhere, but research suggests some modes are more contagious than others. 8 things people diagnosed with coronavirus want you to know people with covid-19 share what they've learned from dealing with the virus over the last few weeks. the best recipes, workouts and other hacks we tried at home this week our editors share what's keeping them calm, productive and entertained during coronavirus social distancing. anyone in eating disorder recovery should read this coronavirus advice stress and different access to food during social distancing can trigger harmful thoughts. here's how to handle it. sorry, but you shouldn't go to your friend's house while social distancing social distancing during covid-19 means you facetime instead of heading over to your friend's house to hang. we don't want to spread this. a quick guide on what to do about your doctors' appointments experts explain what healthcare visits are necessary and what you should postpone because of coronavirus. here's how to keep your home as coronavirus-free as possible research suggests these lesser-known ways to reduce the indoor spread of the virus that causes covid-19. what it's like to be a flight attendant right now how you can support those working in the airline industry, and what to do if you have to fly right now. what to do if you live with someone who may have coronavirus stuck at home with a partner, kid or roommate who has covid-19 symptoms? here's how to take care of them (and yourself). how to make the most out of teletherapy right now social distancing means no in-person sessions, so here's how to use online therapy for your mental health. is it safe for older people to shop during senior hours at grocery stores? some public health experts say it's risky to have the individuals most vulnerable to covid-19 gathering together. worried about your dog or cat and coronavirus? here's what to know no, your pet is not likely to catch the virus, but there are precautions you should be taking, vets say. act like you already have coronavirus a new study from china suggests asymptomatic people spread covid-19 the most. is ibuprofen ok to use for coronavirus symptoms? breaking down whether an anti-inflammatory drug is safe for covid-19, or if tylenol is better. twitter users share hopeful rainbow photos amid the coronavirus crisis and on st. patrick's day, no less! is it allergies or coronavirus? here's how to tell and how to deal. if you have allergies or asthma, this specific advice on covid-19 symptoms and prevention is important. see more follow us! icon_facebookcreated with sketch. icon_twittercreated with sketch. icon_instagram_solidcreated with sketch. newsletter sign up the essential guide to taking care of your mind and body subscribe to huffpost’s wellness email thanks! you have been successfully signed up. newspoliticsentertainmentlifecommunitieshuffpost personalvideonewsletters huffpostabout usadvertiseabout our adscontact usrssfaqcareersarchiveuser agreementprivacy policycomment policyhuffpost press roomcoupons part of huffpost wellness. ©2020 verizon media. all rights reserved. huffington post.