newsletters search house tours search house tours by home type apartments houses studio apartments tiny homes more by location new york city los angeles chicago london san francisco more close style search style browse photos living rooms bedrooms kitchens bathrooms patios style & design decorating ideas design trends color more before & after kitchens bathrooms living rooms bedrooms entryways more close how to search how to how to's hacks paint cleaning plant care home repair & maintenance gardening pest control home security heating & cooling close organize & clean search organize & clean topics disinfecting homekeeping shortcuts cleaning routines organizing & storage decluttering more close living search living real estate moving home financing resources for renters first-time home buyers property crush money budgeting hacks saving & investing budget living career life intentional living family pets wellness green living entertaining close shop search shop shop by room storage kitchen bathroom living room bedroom shop vintage @ bazaar rugs tabletop lighting furniture storage sofas tables chairs shop vintage by style mid-century modern modern rustic industrial scandinavian close more search read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop real estate news partner content company partner with us about contact terms of use privacy policy jobs team watch house tours how-to marie kondo plant doctor taryn cleans it all the new homesmiths $32 design challenge adorable animation more follow us visit our partner site kitchn is a source of inspiration for a happier, healthier life in your kitchen. close wellness 7 habits you need to start (right now) if you suspect someone in your home is sickliving here are seven steps the centers for disease control and prevention recommends if you’re living in the same home as a sick person. ashley abramson now here’s how to exercise your dog indoors, according to a professional trainerliving keep your dog happy and healthy, without leaving the house. inigo del castillo about 3 hours ago 11 (new-to-them) activities apartment therapy staffers have tried out while staying at homeliving we're getting creative, to say the least! nicoletta richardson yesterday flour shop’s amirah kassem likes to spend her nights in with coloring books and ice creamnews get ready to satisfy your sweet tooth. nicoletta richardson yesterday you can virtually hike grand canyon national park and see the colorful rock layers up closenews walk along the hanging cliffs and canyon walls, and get ready for the breathtaking views. nicoletta richardson yesterday the first 5 things to do when you walk in the door, according to a microbiologistorganize & clean yes, grocery store hauls require a whole other level of vigilance right now. ashley abramson yesterday here’s how to work from home with your partner, kids, roommate, or parentsliving regardless of the household dynamic, one thing is for certain: working from home together isn't always easy. nicoletta richardson 2 days ago 4 reasons why you should keep your daily routines when working from homeliving it could help your productivity, among other things. inigo del castillo 3 days ago 4 simple habits of people who always go to bed on timeliving sleep procrastination is a real thing. here's how to stop. ashley abramson 3 days ago from tokyo to washington d.c., this virtual tour lets you visit famous cherry blossom sites around the worldnews the destinations were picked by local guides, so you're in good hands. nicoletta richardson mar 23, 2020 the easiest way to sanitize your bed sheets, according to a laundry expertorganize & clean even if you have access to a washer, you might want to take this extra maintenance step just to be sure you’re not sleeping in a literal bed of germs. ashley abramson mar 23, 2020 feeling stressed? these meditation apps are free right nownews om-mazing. arielle tschinkel mar 22, 2020 how long can germs (like the coronavirus) live on surfaces at home?organize & clean researchers are only beginning to understand how long the novel coronavirus can survive on surfaces, but here's what we know. ashley abramson mar 22, 2020 here are the aquariums and zoos sharing live videos of animals, because we all need this right nownews sometimes there’s no better relief than watching a cute animal at play. nicoletta richardson mar 20, 2020 everything at anthropologie is 25% off this weekend, including these little luxuriesliving time to take your self-care game to the next level. nicole lund mar 20, 2020 you can virtually tour these lush gardens around the world to celebrate the first day of springnews what better way to welcome spring? nicoletta richardson mar 19, 2020 these gyms and fitness brands are offering free virtual workout classes to do at homenews from full-body workouts to yoga and meditation sessions, there's something for everyone. nicoletta richardson mar 18, 2020 do i really need 8 hours of sleep every night? and 10 other things we’re told are mandatorynews here’s what you need to know to rest easy. jennifer nied mar 18, 2020 13 exercises you can literally do without leaving your bedliving introducing the workout of our dreams. diana kelly mar 18, 2020 you can now virtually tour these u.s. national parks from wherever you arenews from the kayaking through icebergs in alaska to diving through shipwrecks in florida, adventure virtually awaits. nicoletta richardson mar 18, 2020 you can watch free performances streamed by the metropolitan opera every night of the weeknews no dress code required! nicoletta richardson mar 16, 2020 8 remote-friendly companies that will pay you to take a vacationnews a guilt-free and financially beneficial way to use your pto. nicoletta richardson mar 12, 2020 a microbiologist shares how “target hygiene” cleaning can help when everyone’s getting sickorganize & clean we’ve got good news for you: you probably don’t have to spend all day disinfecting. ashley abramson mar 11, 2020 here’s everything the cdc wants you to know about cleaning your home right noworganize & clean here's a condensed version of the health agency's recommendations for how healthy people should be cleaning their homes right now. taryn williford mar 10, 2020 why 70 percent alcohol disinfects better than 91 percent, according to a microbiologistorganize & clean there’s a counter-intuitive rule of thumb to follow when you clean with alcohol. ashley abramson mar 9, 2020 i tried a hands-free automatic soap dispenser at home and i’ll never go backorganize & clean knowing how easily and quickly i could wash up turned a switch on in my brain that kept committed to hand-washing. ashley abramson mar 8, 2020 chrissy teigen tried this hack to stop a recurring nightmare and get some sleep, but does it work?news would you try it? arielle tschinkel mar 6, 2020 if you read this sleep tip tomorrow, it’ll be too lateorganize & clean take matters into your own hands so that the inevitable lost hour doesn't catch you unawares. shifrah combiths mar 6, 2020 please don’t use tito’s vodka to make diy hand sanitizer, begs tito’s vodkaorganize & clean twitter users were claiming that the drinking alcohol can be used to make a homemade hand sanitizer. nicoletta richardson mar 5, 2020 the diy sanitizer recipes you’re seeing everywhere don’t work—here’s the right way to do itliving some people are taking sanitizing matters into their own hands (pun intended). here's why that won't work. ashley abramson mar 5, 2020 3 disinfectants you can use if you can’t find clorox wipesorganize & clean brand loyalty is great, but the best product is the one you can find (or already have at home). taryn williford mar 5, 2020 4 things you need to know—right now—if you use disinfecting wipes to clean your phoneorganize & clean odds are you’ve heard by now that your phone is… well, kind of disgusting. here are some quick statistics: according to time, most cell phones are dirtier than a toilet seat—and in one study, high schoolers phones were found to have more than 17,000 gene copies on their phones’ screens. phones are gross (even if you don’t bring your phone into the bathroom).when it comes to getting rid of germs quickly, most of us reach for a container of disinfecting wipes. olivia muenter mar 4, 2020 dryer sheets come out on top for softer towels—but i’ll never use them againorganize & clean i recently tested name brand dryer sheets against two other fabric softening alternatives, and while the difference in softness was significant, it wasn’t enough to convert me to start buying dryer sheets. i know too much. ashley poskin mar 2, 2020 12 ways you need to clean differently during flu seasonorganize & clean while you worry about washing your hands to keep your body safe, your home could be working beneath you to harbor and spread germs. shifrah combiths mar 1, 2020 9 nerdy but brilliant cooking tips straight from food scientistsliving helpful tips that'll up your cooking game—all thanks to food scientists. jesse szewczyk feb 27, 2020 here’s the most popular self-help book in your statenews marie kondo makes the list. nicoletta richardson feb 25, 2020 17 groceries chefs always buy at trader joe’sliving ted allen loves the mini ice cream cones! lauren masur feb 23, 2020 follow us got a tip, kitchen tour, or other story our readers should see? tell us about it! read house tours style how to organize & clean living shop company partner with us about contact press terms of use privacy policy eu data subject requests california do not sell our team jobs site map apartment therapy is © 1994-2020 apartment therapy, llc