got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... wendy williams shuts down! joy behar off the view! how the coronavirus is affecting all your favorite shows! home › wendy williams › wendy williams shuts down! joy behar off the view! how the coronavirus is affecting all your favorite shows! updated, sunday, march 15, 8:50 a.m. pt — it’s not just tv shows that are shutting down right now, either! ben affleck‘s new movie, which had been scheduled to start filming in los angeles at the end of april, has already been shut down… for now. the movie — which purportedly has a budget between $60 and $80 million — sees ben playing a detective investigating a string of high-end heists before uncovering a secret government program. a rep for the movie’s crew told tmz, “we will be taking a temporary hiatus to take necessary precautions to ensure the health of our cast and crew.” well then! __________ we have to be honest, wendy williams kind of needed a break anyway… the daytime diva is the latest to halt production on her show in the wake of the highly infectious covid-19 pandemic. while the wendy williams show had initially made the same move as most talk shows — getting rid of her studio audience. however, unlike other hosts, who rely on the laughter to punctuate monologues, wendy has much more of a dialogue with her fans. naturally many viewers wondered if the show could even function without its audience. related: wendy’s non-stop controversies in 2020 well, we might have the answer now. wendy is officially shutting down and will air reruns next week. show staff were informed by an email, obtained by the blast, which read: “to our dedicated wendy show staff: the safety and well-being of our employees is our top priority. considering the current escalation of the coronavirus, production will be put on hold, indefinitely. however, the office will remain open for you to pick up any materials or personal items. in place of live shows, we will air repeats and we will continue to monitor the situation with the cdc and city officials to determine the best time to return and produce live shows again. thank you for everything you do and please stay safe!” obviously this is about coronavirus safety first and foremost, but we do wonder if everyone behind the scenes agreed the test of a no-audience wendy was a failure. related: wendy just reignited her feud with nicki minaj perhaps it’s because a conversation can continue between multiple women, whether there’s an audience or not, but the view is thus far staying on despite an empty studio. however, they will have to carry on without joy behar, who announced on friday she would be staying home next week. in her surprise reveal to her co-hosts joy explained she is older than she looks (she’s 77 years old — yes, she looks fantastic), putting her in the range where the virus is much more likely to be deadly. according to current numbers, for those 70-79, the fatality rate jumps to nearly 10%. when joy asked if her co-hosts would miss her, whoopi goldberg, in her whoopiest way, shrugged and simply said, “probably,” to which joy laughed aloud. watch the very real moment (below): so what other shows are affected? in late night, the following shows have chosen to continue with no studio audience: the late show with stephen colbert the daily show with trevor noah last week tonight with john oliver full frontal with samantha bee however, a few have decided to take a hiatus and air reruns like wendy: the tonight show starring jimmy fallon late night with seth meyers watch what happens live with andy cohen scripted shows are not immune either. all of these shows have suspended production due to safety concerns: riverdale the flash grace and frankie grey’s anatomy the morning show the good fight ncis dynasty on the reality tv front, all these shows have halted production: the bachelorette the amazing race survivor the price is right card sharks we’ll keep you up to date on any more shows shutting down as this health scare continues to reverberate through hollywood. [image via the wendy williams show/the view/youtube.] related posts wendy williams shading lamar odom & his fiancée on youtube is a return to form! johnny depp is not so innocent! tori spelling at war with her mom! prince harry done with family! and… | perez hilton wendy williams reignites nicki minaj feud over sex offender husband! shots fired! wendy williams mommy-shames ashley graham for changing her son’s diaper at staples click click click next article next article mar 13, 2020 1:40pm pdt share this categories daytime tv health joy behar late night tv tv news wendy williams view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy