got a tip? podcast galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddy hilton perezitos newsletter got a tip? star seeker galleries quizzes pereztv cocoperez fitperez teddyhilton perezitos tv news featured priyanka chopra explains the one rule she & nick jonas follow to make their... the real story behind that ugly fight between kim & kourtney kardashian on ... wendy williams shading lamar odom & his fiancée on youtube is a return to form! home › wendy williams › wendy williams shading lamar odom & his fiancée on youtube is a return to form! it took a pandemic, but wendy williams is finally talking sense again! well, she’s still talking trash, but at least we totally understand where she’s coming from! lolz! the daytime diva attempted to do her show without the audience, but in the big empty studio it just felt like it was missing something — we mean, who was she having a kiki with if no one was there?? well, it turns out if you take away the studio, the lights, the multi-cam setup, and you just have wendy dishing the dirt straight to camera from the comfort of her home, you have — well, a youtube video. but at least this works! related: chrissy teigen exchanged banana bread for lettuce with a youtuber in fact, wendy may have missed her calling with that high-paying tv gig! lolz! because we are loving how real this feels! ok, so what was the highlight of the week? wendy trying to wrap her head around the reality show lamar odom and fiancée sabrina parr announced last weekend. she began: “all right, so, lamar odom and his… sabrina parr, they are documenting their relationship on fubu streaming service. now, i don’t know what that is.” ha! that feels like what we want to say half the time someone tells us about a new tv show on some network we’ve never heard of. oh, really? it’s 6 minutes and you can only watch it on the digital screen on your refrigerator? for the record, the for us by us network is the brand new tv arm of the clothing company. in addition to lamar and sabrina, they also have rapper boosie and… no, that’s it for now. wendy continued: “and lamar and sabrina, nobody cares about y’all’s relationship.” ha! may have to disagree with wendy there. there’s a reason californians famously stop everything to watch a high speed police chase. you know it’s going to end badly, you just don’t know exactly how. related: how khloé kardashian feels about lamar’s engagement the host got particularly shady re: sabrina’s past, saying: “sabrina is a life coach, but she’s got a whole bunch of arrest pictures at the police precinct.” ooh, that is some classic goss! she also seemed confused by lamar’s previous statements about the relationship, saying: “lamar says he’s a sex addict and they say they don’t want to have sex until they get married.” yeah, we’re intrigued by that one as well. she finally said: “lamar has two kids here in new york, grown. i don’t know what kind of time he spends with these kids. you know what, i feel dirty doing the story.” damn, really? she talked herself out of it?? lolz! something tells us she also no longer has a crack research staff down the hall, so maybe that’s all the tea she has at the moment. get your dose of wendy, with the lamar stuff starting around the 9:55 mark (below)! [image via wendy williams/fubu/youtube.] related posts wendy williams shuts down! joy behar off the view! how the coronavirus is affecting all your favorite shows! johnny depp is not so innocent! tori spelling at war with her mom! prince harry done with family! and… | perez hilton wendy williams reignites nicki minaj feud over sex offender husband! shots fired! wendy williams mommy-shames ashley graham for changing her son’s diaper at staples click click click next article next article mar 27, 2020 12:00pm pdt share this categories lamar odom reality tv shade tv news wendy williams youtube view hot news todrick hall destroys kim kardashian west in scathing nsfw rant defending pal ta ... taylor swift breaks silence on the kanye tape truth coming out! chrissy teigen blasts donald trump in most nsfw tweet ever! top celebrities view all celebrities my new autobiography! click to buy top videos dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton has madonna ruined her legacy? two more months of quarantine!!!!!! | perez hilton mason disick in trouble! demi lovato’s new man! ariana grande getting good d! angelina jolie is an angel! and more! | perez hilton click to watch galleries the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! the juiciest celebrity love triangles! the nastiest celebrity divorces! american music awards 2019: all the fabulous & flirty fashion! celebs who have diabetes dakota johnson, emilia clarke, & more best dressed celebs of the week! election 2020: who the celebs support! click for pics newsletter subscribe to our newsletter for the latest celebrity gossip email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes rank the best movies of the decade! quiz: which christmas cookie are you??? vote: who was this week’s best dressed celeb?? play with perez instagram these were photos of the deceased and not just pho hit us with your corniest jokes about this! and sw we know our followers are not among this 38% but.. swipe up in stories for her full comments! in a new video, amanda bynes accuses paparazzi of canada is so nice. swipe up in stories and royals rob kardashian has been denied primary custody of selena gomez is reportedly relieved the "chapter" artistry, y’all! 💋 swipe up in stories or rel click to follow follow perez latest video dream kardashian seriously injured! meghan markle’s hollywood takeover! evangeline lilly is sorry! and more! | perez hilton pereztv see more quizzes see more galleries see more connect with perez subscribe to our newsletter for the latest news email first name sorry. you must have javascript enabled to fill out this form. please complete the recaptcha below to join our email list. quizzes / galleries / pereztv / news about advertising privacy terms sitemap contact copyright © 2020 perezhilton.com | all rights reserved we use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website.okprivacy policy