about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews the gigantic autism billboard: autism wisdom in a few words updated mar 27, 2020 neve spicer what if you had to distill a lifetime of lived experience with autism into a single pearl of wisdom? here's what people wanted to share with the world. read more » 21 evidence-based benefits of drama and theater education updated mar 26, 2020 neve 21 compelling studies proving that drama education positively affects your child's emotional, social and linguistic abilities. here's the evidence... read more » the 13 best unicorn toys your kids will love updated mar 25, 2020 neve mystical, magical unicorns are a hit with kids of all ages, which means there’s plenty of toy options out there to choose from. of course, scoring the best of … read more » the best baby towels & washcloths to buy in 2020 updated mar 19, 2020 neve baby towels need to be super soft and absorbent. the best ones wick the moisture from your little one without irritating their hypersensitive skin. read more » 51 benefits of arts education for kids mar 13, 2020 neve spicer arts education in schools is currently teetering on a precipice. overwhelmingly, parents feel that the arts play a vital role in their children’s education. and yet, at the very … read more » internet safety 101: the ultimate guide for parents mar 13, 2020 neve spicer this is the ultimate, easy-to-digest guide to keeping your family safe online. "internet safety 101" is simple to follow and full of quick actionable tips to help you protect … read more » posts navigation 1 2 3 4 … 41 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest