about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews 17 reasons scooters make kids healthier, happier and more confident updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer a first tooth. that wobbly first step. hearing the word mama so it’s actually understandable! the landmarks celebrating your child’s development fill baby books and mark the ages and … read more » scooter safety for kids (everything parents need to know) updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer in the kingdom of “mobile innovations” dwells a category of recreational vehicles known as the kick scooter. they come in small, medium and large. boring color schemes and lively … read more » 5 pro youtubers your scooter kid will love updated mar 12, 2020 neve spicer it was hard to ignore the abc news article headline written by emily bissland and posted on february 24th, but in fact it’s today’s reality: “why scooter kids can … read more » posts navigation previous 1 … 38 39 40 41 we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest