about us privacy disclaimer we the parents menu bump giving birth pregnancy clothes & gear pregnancy health baby diapering feeding health on the go play, toys & gifts sleep toddler clothes & shoes health on the go play, toys & toys kids health play, toys & gifts family & parenting gear & reviews when is it safe to face your baby forward in a carrier? updated mar 7, 2020 neve as your child snuggles close to your chest during babywearing, it’s easy to see how the process facilitates a close and comforting parental bond. while very young babies must … read more » the best ring slings you can buy in 2020 updated mar 7, 2020 neve there’s a lot of benefits to babywearing — it encourages bonding with your little one, can make feeding on the go easier, and frees up your hands! there’s lots … read more » 43 ways our kids thrive on free play jan 30, 2020 neve spicer is your child getting enough ‘free play’? child-led free play – the unstructured time during which children can act out their fantasies, create their own rules, and explore the … read more » how to stop cyberbullying updated mar 11, 2020 neve while technology is incredible in a myriad of ways, it has given bullies a whole new platform to showcase their innate desire to hurt other people. bullies have been … read more » the 7 best walkie talkies for kids in 2020 updated mar 11, 2020 neve walk-talkies are handheld radio transmitters that allow children to communicate from remote locations. simply said, kids love playing with walkie-talkies. it doesn’t matter if they are engaging in a … read more » 13 awesome alphabet learning toys updated mar 11, 2020 neve the first step in your child’s journey toward reading and writing is learning their abc’s, and one of the most effective ways to teach them is with teaching toys … read more » posts navigation previous 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 … 41 next we are neve and keane (the parents), two unperfectionists looking for simplicity, meaning, and humor in parenting. as ex-teachers and project managers, we get obssessed with researching and writing precisely. hopefully, you'll appreciate this when reading our in-depth parenting guides. also, we love to get nerdy, testing and reviewing the gear that moms and dads (apparently) need. hopefully, this’ll save you a bit of time for more important things, like your kids. with care, n & k xx search search affiliate disclosure in plain speak, when our readers buy the independently chosen products on wetheparents, we earn a commission that supports our work. (and it’s much appreciated, so thank you!) in legalese, we are a participant in the amazon services llc associates program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for us to earn fees by linking to amazon.com and affiliated sites. wetheparents copyright © 2020. pin it on pinterest