the a.v. club deadspin gizmodo jalopnik jezebel kotaku lifehacker the root the takeout the onion the inventory pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. subscribe homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop pop culture obsessives writing for the pop culture obsessed. homelatestfilmtv clubmusicgamesvideotv reviewsreviewsand moreshop great job internet we’ve reached the “horny for mufasa” stage of quarantine you may also like tv club steven universe departs, portrait of a lady on fire arrives, and we all drown in our own tears allison shoemakertoday 12:00am news someone's suing mandy moore for $150,000 for posting a photo of...herself patrick gomezyesterday 3:24pm games why does doom eternal play like a mario game in hell? sam barsantitoday 12:00am more from g/o media read on maybe sony will finally fulfill one of playstation's oldest promises read on another ww1 fps wants to get into the trenches read on here's an update on the $900 chinese ev i ordered from alibaba read on coronavirus has slashed global air pollution. this interactive map shows how. subscribe to our newsletter now you can get the top stories from the a.v. club delivered to your inbox.subscribe dan neilan today 1:38pm • filed to:great job internet great job internetthe lion kinghornymufasa 7 save screenshot: the lion king (youtube) listen, we’re not here to judge. we’re not here to yuck anybody’s yum. we’re just here to report the facts. and the fact is, some people are out here getting real horny for the lion king. specifically, these sexed-up interpretations of characters from the 1994 disney film recently published by los angeles-based illustrator marco bernard. advertisement according to popsugar, bernard’s collection of sexy, swaggering anthropomorphic lions—or, as he calls it, the pridelands project—was inspired both by the fact that he’s been trapped inside like the rest of us and his recent binges of talespin and netflix’s beastars. the latter series, based on the popular manga of the same name, is set in a world of anthropomorphic, clothes-wearing animals and deals with such adult themes as love, death, and herbivore-carnivore relations. it also features a particularly nasty group of lions. advertisement “i wondered what it would be like for scar to be the leader of those lions,” bernard tells popsugar. thus, sexy scar in a tight-fitting three-piece suit was born. advertisement the internet’s response to swol mufasa in a tucked-in hanes tee is about what you’d expect. though, perhaps people’s horniness for classic disney toons has been artificially accelerated a bit by extended periods of isolation and loneliness. again, we’re not here to judge. send great job, internet tips to gji@theonion.com advertisement dan neilan posts twitter contributor, the a.v. club. pay me to write for you, you coward. share this story get our newsletter subscribe more from the a.v. club all is resolved in an underwhelming star trek: picard finale someone's suing mandy moore for $150,000 for posting a photo of...herself jem from jem and the holograms knows the best way to be a superstar these days is to stay indoors meet “dillman”—brooklyn nine-nine’s approach to a classic whodunnit share tweet