skip to main content our free wordpress themes are downloaded over 3 million times. get them now! twitter facebook pinterest instagram linkedin youtube github home we are hiring! about colorlib advertise on colorlib contact us our contributors privacy policy terms and conditions support forum free themes activello about activello activello documentation illdy theme about illdy illdy documentation shapely about shapely shapely documentation sparkling about sparkling sparkling documentation dazzling about dazzling dazzling documentation travelify about travelify travelify documentation unite about unite unite documentation pinbin about pinbin pinbin documentation other wp themes html templates premium themes theme collections 3 column affiliate marketing creative genesis child themes ecommerce education health & medical hq themes landing page magazine multipurpose most popular spa & hair salon theme collections app showcase adsense ready blog business coming soon church directory eco & green flat design portfolio one page seo friendly theme collections architect bootstrap fashion job board fullscreen fast loading feminine hotel booking music masonry grid nightclub travel tech startups theme collections bbpress clean construction fitness & gym hosting parallax simple resume and vcard knowledge base lawyer photography restaurant real estate blog wordpress coupons theme collections news tutorial giveaway reviews cart0 cart search cart search submit ×close search blog home » tutorial » what is the size of the instagram picture in pixels? [updated] what is the size of the instagram picture in pixels? [updated] september 13, 2018 aigars tutorial 117 comments instagram among the most popular social networks today. it has over 300 million active users and is growing rapidly. it is a specialized social network in image and short video sharing and recently moved towards instant messaging. instagram grow so rapidly in photo sharing sphere and mobile that facebook decided to acquire it for $1 billion to expand their roots in mobile and photo sharing. at the time most people believed that it was overvalued but seeing a whooping 300 million active monthly users, billions of shared images, it is now valued even higher than that. while instagram is around for a while, people keep asking me what is the size of instagram pictures. instagram image size used to be 612px by 612px but then switched to 640px by 640px and on july 2015 switched to 1080px by 1080px to keep up with retina and other high resolution displays available on smartphones, tablets and laptops. later that year instagram introduced vertical and horizontal images that are widely used by instagramers and influencers. and here are maximums image sizes for square, vertical and horizontal images. you can now use any image size between those. square image: 1080px in width by 1080px in height vertical image: 1080px in width by 1350px in height horizontal image: 1080px in width by 566px in height current image size is 1080px in width x 1080px in height. we expect that instagram will keep this image size for an extended period of time, otherwise they would have bumped image size even more. while the image size is bumped to 1080px by 1080px, it is still scaled down to 640px by 640px using css on their website. which means that these images will look better on high-resolution displays such as retina (hidpi). you don’t need to get into these technical details and remember to keep your image size 1080px by 1080px. unlimited downloads: 500,000+ social media graphics & design assets all the social media graphics you need and many other design elements, are available for a monthly subscription by subscribing to envato elements. the subscription costs $29 per month and gives you unlimited access to a massive and growing library of 500,000+ items. you can download these items as often as you need (stock photos too)! download now below you can see sample instagram image and its dimensions: square instagram image (original size) uncropped instagram image with size in pixels. click on image to preview it in full size vertical instagram image uncropped instagram vertical image with size in pixels. click on image to preview it in full size horizontal instagram image uncropped horizontal instagram image with a size in pixels. click on image to preview it in full size to create the best looking instagram images, you should keep your camera settings to a higher resolution than the one recommended by instagram. the reason is that it crops the images and you don’t want to make them look pixelated. creators expect this year to year of 4k resolution in tvs, monitors, laptops and even tablets, so we can expect that instagram will increase the image size even further. i will try to keep this post up to date so you can be sure that the information above is accurate and the instagram image size is now 1080px by 1080px. update (1) since july 2015 instagram now use 1080px by 1080px images. update (2) since november 2015, instagram supports vertical and horizontal images between 566px and 1350px in height. the developers set the maximum size for all image formats to 1080px. update (3) to make instagram marketing even easier and to make your posts look professional we have created a list of instagram mockups that will take your profile to a completely different league. thank you for visiting colorlib and reading this article! we highly appreciate it! now you might want to learn how to make a website using our free wordpress themes. ad mockupsinstagraminstagram mockup share this share tweet pin it share aigars frontend web developer and web designer specialized in free and premium wordpress theme development. after graduating with bba he self-though frontend web development. mainly css/html/javascript(react, vue) and some php. obsessed with application performance, user experience and simplicity. twitterfacebooklinkedin related posts how to speed up your wordpress site ? a complete guide 2019 is your wordpress site slow? if yes, we need to work on that. ohh and… is your wordpress website secure? are wordpress websites vulnerable? two or three decades ago, robbery was limited to breaking and entering to steal someone's… niche vs. multipurpose – which wordpress theme to choose? in the last several years, the trend of multipurpose wordpress themes has grown like a… wordpress gutenberg tutorial on how to create a custom website using blocks this is a wordpress gutenberg tutorial written by web developers who have significant experience in… troubleshooting the dilemma associated with @font-face inside media query with more and more users getting inclined towards using mobile devices for accessing the web,… how shortcodes can add more life to wordpress themes ask n number of webmasters on how would they like to have a website that… disclosure: this page contains external affiliate links that may result in us receiving a commission if you choose to purchase mentioned product. the opinions on this page are our own and we don't receive additional bonus for positive reviews. follow us facebook linkedin twitter youtube how to make a wordpress website – step-by-step guide for beginners the best free wordpress directory plugins for 2020 the best gallery and portfolio plugins for wordpress booknetic review – a wordpress appointment booking and scheduling plugin top 21 most popular google maps plugins for wordpress 2020 17 best free wordpress plugins for donations for 2020 we recommend: categories coupons (2) ecommerce (20) frameworks (10) free themes (41) giveaway (15) hosting (19) inspiration (137) logo design (4) mockups (144) news (17) photography (8) plugins (125) portfolio (4) promotions (43) psd templates (36) reviews (123) snippets (37) theme collections (516) tools (81) tutorial (56) uncategorized (1) website builders (57) website design (54) website templates (219) previous post: how to create a dental clinic website using wordpress – a detailed guide next post: how to choose the right hosting for your wordpress website? – a beginner’s guide we change everything wordpress. one wordpress theme at a time. find out more! our themes all free themes activello theme illdy theme shapely sparkling theme dazzling theme travelify wordpress theme unite wordpress theme pinbin wordpress theme support forum useful about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! log in username: password: keep me signed in log in register lost password copyright 2013-2020 colorlib - all rights reserved. privacy policy | site terms & disclosures. hosted by kinsta about colorlib advertise wordpress themes website templates bootstrap templates our contributors support forum – support policy contact us we are hiring! back to top ×