skip to content menu make a website start a blog reviews best web hosting wordpress hosting bluehost review hostgator review siteground review inmotion review a2 hosting review website builders wix review shopify review duda review weebly review ecommerce platforms domain registrars webinar software best vpn services resources blog about what is: dns? when the internet was first created, no one had any idea just how many trillions of websites and other connected files would be added. in the earliest days of the internet, users simply had to remember the names of the servers that hosted the websites or other files that they wanted to access. eventually, a more user-friendly system was devised. every website and connected file would be assigned a unique number known as an ip address. and the dns or domain name system would be in charge of converting plaintext urls to those ip addresses. that’s why you can type “www.wordpress.org” into your browser and go directly to the wordpress website without having to remember its ip address, which is “198.143.164.252”. both the ip address and the plaintext “www.wordpress.org” addresses take you to the same website, all thanks to the domain name system. perhaps the easiest way to think of the domain name system is like a giant phone book. when you type in something in plaintext in your browser’s address field, your browser then uses a domain name server to find the corresponding ip address and thus connect you to the desired website. the dns records are stored on a name server (sometimes written “nameserver”). all websites must have at least two nameservers, one to function as the primary server to deliver the information and a second nameserver to work as a backup. it’s important to remember that the server hosting your website is not the same as the nameserver. the nameserver is provided by a company that gives you the exclusive right to use a given plaintext website address (like “www.wordpress.org”) while the web hosting company is operating the server that delivers the content from your website. in other words, the nameserver gives you the address or url of your website, and the web host is where your website files reside. the following two tabs change content below. bio latest posts jamie my name is jamie spencer and i have spent the past 5 years building money making blogs. after growing tired of the 9-5, commuting and never seeing my family i decided that i wanted to make some changes and launched my first blog. since then i have launched lots of successful niche blogs and after selling my survivalist blog i decided to teach other people how to do the same. latest posts by jamie (see all) interview – cameron james from anymail finder - march 26, 2020 the best standing desks 2020 – detailed buyers guides and reviews - march 25, 2020 how to make money as a kid in 2020 – 6 to 16 years old - march 19, 2020 useful wordpress guides wordpress glossary terms how to install wordpress how to delete a wordpress blog wordpress.com vs wordpress.org wordpress website checklist how to speed up wordpress learn how to use wordpress like a pro wordpress security best of the blog online business ideas that work how to build an amazon affiliate website best affiliate marketing platforms best blogging sites 103 ways to make money online create a professional email address best social media management tools affiliate marketing glossary what is a blog? free web hosting latest hosting reviews best vps hosting best magento hosting best cloud hosting best dedicated hosting cheap vps hosting hosting coupons best uk web hosting best web hosting for australia cheap web hosting cookie policy privacy policy site builder reviews shopify review squarespace review weebly review wix site builder review duda website builder review site links affiliate disclaimer cheat sheets tutorials and guides black friday / cyber monday © 2020 make a website hub